DRN-2642643
The complaint
Mr P complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P was given two loans by 118 118 Money as follows: 
Date Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentAPRAmount 
Payable
720540 07/09/2016 £2,000.00 24 £160.98 99.9% £3,863.52
905685 02/06/2017 £4,811.51 24 £369.52 99.9% £8,868.48
When Mr P was unable to resolve his complaint directly with 118 118 Money he came to 
us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and she recommended upholding 
Mr Ps complaint about loan 1 as she thought that 118 118 Money shouldve realised this 
loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr P. But it looked like Mr P had more disposable 
income when he took out loan 2, and although our investigator didnt think 118 118 Money 
did sufficient checks before agreeing to provide loan 2, she also said that she didnt feel 
shed seen enough to say that if 118 118 Money had done better checks it wouldve made 
a different lending decision. 
So our investigator wasnt able to say that loan 2 shouldnt have been agreed and she 
didnt uphold that part of Mr Ps complaint.
In response to our investigators view, 118 118 Money has reconsidered its position on 
loan 1 and said that it doesnt intend to challenge the recommendation to uphold that part 
of Mr Ps complaint.  
Mr P said he wasnt happy with our investigators view about not upholding loan 2. He 
mainly felt that his gambling addiction and the extent of his existing debt and his 
financial difficulties obvious from his credit report and bank statements meant that 118 
118 Money shouldve seen that loan 2 wasnt affordable for him.   
He has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ps complaint. Having thought about everything 
and after looking at the complaint afresh, Ive independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr P and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
 Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr P would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make fair lending 
decisions? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?As 118 118 Money has confirmed that it is willing to settle Mr Ps complaint about loan 1 in 
the way our investigator has suggested, I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. So I wont refer to this loan further except to include it when setting out what 
118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr P.
But I dont think 118 118 Money shouldve provided loan 2. Ill explain why I say this.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr P before it agreed the loan. It 
asked him for details of his income (which it checked) and monthly expenditure. 118 
118 Money also carried out credit checks to find out how much Mr P paid towards his 
credit commitments and to understand his credit history. 
Mr P said his net monthly income was £3600 and his monthly outgoings were £850  
including £300 spending on credit card repayments.  
118 118 Money saw from its credit checks that Mr P had credit card debt totalling £5134 and 
debt expenditure totalling £711 on loans (not including loan 1 which was going to be repaid 
out of loan 2). His credit cards were all close to their limit and 118 118 Money knew hed had 
some arrears on those accounts. I think its fair to say that overall this information was at 
odds with what Mr P had told 118 118 Money about his financial situation. So our 
investigator felt that a proportionate check wouldve required 118 118 Money to go further in 
its checking and gather, and independently check, some more detailed information about Mr 
Ps financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him.  
Like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 118 118 Money did were enough. I think 
it would have been proportionate for 118 118 Money do have done more to check the true 
state of Mr Ps finances before agreeing the loan.
But although I dont think the checks 118 118 Money did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, that isnt a good enough reason for me to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint. In 
order for Mr Ps complaint to succeed, I would need to be able to say that proportionate 
checks would have shown 118 118 Money that Mr P couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
Mr P has provided us with various bank statements, including those covering the period 
running up to him taking out loan 2  which I have been able to look at. The bank statements 
Ive seen appear broadly to show information that 118 118 Money could already see from its 
credit checks. It looks like he had underestimated some of his spending, but even so, looking 
at his income around that time, it seems that Mr P should reasonably have been able to 
expect that he would have more than £1000 spare cash. So the loan repayments looked 
comfortably affordable for him.
And although he has explained that his compulsive gambling led to serious money problems 
for him, I cant fairly say that this is information that 118 118 Money should have found out if 
it had done a proportionate check before agreeing loan 2. 
I say this because I cant see this is reflected in the bank statements I've seen covering the 
run-up to loan 2. Whilst his bank statements show he made a high number of cash machine 
withdrawals, theres nothing to indicate what that money was spent on. And I dont think this 
information was sufficient to have prompted a lender reasonably to the conclusion that this 
loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mr P. I've taken into account that Mr P feels his credit history shouldve alerted 118 118 Money to 
think that this loan wasnt affordable for him. But it isnt unusual for borrowers applying for 
high cost credit like this to have an impaired credit history or other short term loans  and its 
not necessarily a reason for a lender to decline a loan application. I dont think the 
information that appears on his credit report is enough for me to say that 118 118 Money 
shouldve declined his loan application. 
I would also just mention that although Mr P has said his bank statements in the period 
leading up to loan 1 wouldve shown the extent of his gambling, this isnt information that 
I would reasonably expect 118 118 Money to have asked for either when he applied for loan 
1 or when he took out loan 2. Thats because I dont think a proportionate check would have 
required 118 118 Money to ask to see bank statements or revealed this information when he 
applied for loan 1. And when Mr P applied for loan 2, I dont think that 118 118 Money 
needed to ask to see bank statements going that far back. I think it mightve been 
reasonable for it to ask to see bank statements for the three months leading up to loan 2 or 
take other steps to find out information relating to that period. But I've explained above why 
I still dont think 118 118 Money wouldve seen enough information of concern for it to realise 
that the loan wasnt likely to be affordable for Mr P.  
Given everything that Mr P has told us, I think its fair to say that 118 118 Money had an 
incomplete understanding of Mr Ps true financial situation. But I havent seen enough 
overall to make me think that even if 118 118 Money had sought a fuller picture of Mr Ps 
finances it shouldve realised that the loan wasnt sustainable for him. 
Even if it had completed the proportionate checks that it ought to have done, it still 
wouldnt have seen enough in my view to prompt it to decline his loan application. I think 
it wouldve been reasonable to conclude that loan 2 looked like it ought to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr P and that it was fair to lend to him. So this is why Im not upholding his 
irresponsible lending complaint about loan 2. 
I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Mr P in some 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not planning to say that 118 118 Money 
needs to do anything more than it has already agreed to or pay anything further to Mr P 
beyond providing him with redress in respect of loan 1.
I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure him that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including his comments sent to our investigator. I can understand that Mr P will be 
disappointed in the outcome of his complaint but I hope that setting things out as Ive done 
helps explain how Ive come to my view. 
After taking everything into account, I dont think 118 118 Money should have agreed to 
provide loan 1 to Mr P  so it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the capital amount that he borrowed when 
he took out loan 1, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest 
and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him.
118 118 Money said it sold the outstanding debt so it should now buy it back, if its able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If 118 118 Money isnt able to buy the debt back, then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
118 118 Money should: add up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of having been given loan 1. 
The repayments Mr P made to this loan should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mr P having effectively made payments above the original capital 
borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled*.
 If an outstanding capital balance remains, then 118 118 Money should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr P, always bearing in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically in those discussions.
 Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For these reasons, I partly uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading 
as 118 118 Money to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman