DRN-3758130
The complaint
Ms M complains about the quality of goods she ordered from Studio Retail Limited (Studio).
What happened
Ms M used her credit facility with Studio to order a television in April 2020. In June 2022 she 
told Studio the television was faulty and shed like it to be repaired or replaced.
Studio told Ms M that the television had come with a 12-month guarantee, but because that 
time had passed it wasnt possible to return it. Studio applied a £10 credit to Ms Ms account 
as a gesture of goodwill and gave her referral rights to this service. 
Ms M referred the matter to this service. She said that relevant legislation entitled her to a 
refund, repair or replacement of the goods. 
Our investigator said that whether or not the goods supplied to Ms M were of satisfactory 
quality is a retail issue, so it fell outside of this services jurisdiction. They said that we can 
consider whether Studio has acted fairly in asking Ms M to repay the lending it had provided 
taking into account what had happened, and ultimately concluded that Studio had acted 
fairly overall.
Ms M didnt agree. She asked for an ombudsmans decision and said shes paying towards a 
credit agreement for a television that doesnt work. 
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms complaint is about a whether or not Studio is acting fairly in relation to a running 
credit account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its a regulated agreement and 
one which this service has the power to consider a complaint about. That is, so far as the 
complaint arises from Studio carrying on an activity specified under our rules.
Broadly speaking, our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook) say that we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction 
as long the complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified. 
Studio is covered by this services jurisdiction, but it has acted in two different capacities in 
dealing with Ms M. Theres an important distinction to be made here, and its relevant to 
whether or not the complaint relates to an activity we can consider.
When it sold a television to Ms M, Studio was acting as a retailer. It was also acting as a 
retailer when it declined to accept the return of  or take steps to repair or replace  the 
television. In raising issue about the televisions quality, Ms M relied on rights she might 
have had against Studio as a retailer. So, the issue Ms M has raised  about the quality of 
the television Studio supplied her  relate to Studios role as a retailer. This service does not 
have the power to consider a complaint about Studios activities as a retailer. So, I make no 
finding on this point. 
However, Studio has also acted as the provider of regulated lending to Ms M. And its asked 
her to repay sums in relation to the television she purchased. Thats something this service 
does have the power to look into  specifically, I can consider whether Studio is acting fairly 
in asking Ms M to repay the lending it provided in respect of the purchase of the television, 
taking into account everything thats happened. 
Ms Ms agreement set out that Studio would provide lending for certain purchases and also 
the terms on which Ms M would be required to repay that lending. It doesnt say that Ms M 
need not repay the lending in the event of a dispute regarding the provision or quality of the 
goods provided with the retailer. And its clear that theres a dispute between Ms M and 
Studio as to whether the goods she was supplied with were of satisfactory quality. Taking 
that into account, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Studio has not acted fairly by asking 
her to repay the lending.
Overall, I find that Studio has acted fairly in relation to Ms Ms credit facility with it. I dont 
think we can consider Ms Ms complaint about the quality of goods she received, so I make 
no finding on that point and cannot fairly require Studio to take the steps Ms M asked it to in 
order to remedy the issues with her television.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman