DRN-4139513
The complaint
Mr M complains about numerous issues relating to the service he has received from 
Scottish Widows Limited who administer his personal pension. 
What happened
Mr M had a personal pension with Scottish Widows.
In 2022 Mr M made several complaints to Scottish Widows about the administration of his 
plan. Ive summarised his complaints and Scottish Widows responses below; 
June 2022 
Mr M complained that Scottish Widows failed to warn him that his funds value had dropped. 
Theyd also held an incorrect address for him at the outset of his plan, so they sent important 
documents to an incorrect address. 
In response Scottish Widows said they dont provide financial advice to their clients and so it 
wasnt their policy to notify clients when funds dropped in value. They went on to say the 
address theyd used matched Mr Ms application form, but theyd changed it as soon as they 
were notified of the error. Scottish Widows did, however, offer Mr M £25 as hed been kept 
on hold for 45 minutes when calling them.  
August 2022
Mr M said that when hed called Scottish Widows to switch his funds into a cash account, he 
was told on the phone that the price hed get would be that of the end of the day. When he 
later checked, the funds were valued at £198,759.04. However, he only received 
£197,321.55.
In response Scottish Widows said Mr M had been given incorrect information over the 
telephone. They explained that any instructions received before midday would be valued at 
the next day prices. But those received after midday would be processed the next working 
day. Meaning the value would be that of two working days later for requests received after 
midday.
So, the information Mr M was told about when he would see the value of his funds was 
incorrect. However, Scottish Widows were satisfied the request was keyed on the correct 
date and Mr M received the correct value of his funds. They offered Mr M £75 for the upset 
and inconvenience their incorrect information caused. They also offered a further £7 to cover 
the cost of Mr Ms phone call as he was abroad at the time.  
September 2022
Mr M asked for further information about the reasons behind the drop in value of his fund. 
And he asked Scottish Widows to suspend their charges while his complaint was with the 
ombudsman service. 
Scottish Widows provided information to Mr M about the situation of global markets and 
offered him £50 for the delay in providing the information hed sought. They said they 
wouldnt suspend the charges on Mr Ms policy as the policy was still operating as it should 
and the complaint hadnt impacted that. 
Later that month, Scottish Widows also reviewed their earlier responses to Mr Ms 
complaints and said they were satisfied with the answers theyd provided, and 
compensation offered. 
October 2022
Mr M complained to Scottish Widows about several issues. In summary he said 
Scottish Widows failed to act in his best interests and keep him informed about his funds 
performance. And they didnt offer any advice or warn customers about the impact of global 
events on the markets.
He went on to say Scottish Widows failed to send important documents to him and didnt 
have any systems in place to make sure they were received. He also said Scottish Widows 
pricing systems were flawed and they hadnt reimbursed him the £1,500 difference in the 
funds value after giving him incorrect information. 
Scottish Widows responded in December 2022. They explained that the majority of the 
points raised were covered in previous final response letters. They noted that they had gone 
outside the regulatory eight-week timescale in which they were supposed to respond and 
said they would uphold his complaint on this basis only and offered an apology.
Mr M was unhappy with Scottish Widows responses to his complaints, and so brought them 
to our Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaints. He explained that in the areas where he 
thought Scottish Widows had made an error, theyd done enough to put things right. 
Mr M disagreed. In particular he said Scottish Widows had made an error in telling him the 
wrong information about the value of his fund when he switched it into the cash account. And 
he might have thought twice about switching if he knew the value of his fund was around 
£1,500 less than he thought.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr M has very strong feelings about his complaint, having provided detailed 
submissions in writing in support of his complaint points, which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr M will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. 
Our service is intended to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers with a minimum formality. So, while Ive taken into account all submissions, I've 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Mr M was concerned that the value of his plan dropped significantly but he wasnt contacted 
by Scottish Widows.
I can appreciate it was upsetting for Mr M to discover his pension had dropped in value. However, Scottish Widows are Mr Ms pension provider. He didnt have any agreements in 
place with them to offer him financial advice. 
Considering the relationship Mr M had with Scottish Widows, I wouldnt expect them to 
attempt to offer Mr M any advice about his investments when they started to fall in value or 
offer any opinion on the likely effects of global events on the markets.
When Mr M attempted to call Scottish Widows for information about his pensions value, he 
was on hold for 45 minutes. And I can see that caused him upset and inconvenience. 
However, I think Scottish Widows offer of £25 fairly reflects the inconvenience of being on 
hold for 45 minutes. 
Scottish Widows also acknowledge that they didnt provide Mr M with a detailed explanation 
as to why his funds lost value until September 2022. But they offered £50 compensation for 
the delay in providing an explanation and I think that fairly reflects the upset their delay 
caused. 
Throughout his complaints Scottish Widows continued to apply charges to Mr Ms plan. But I 
think that was reasonable. Scottish Widows have continued to administer Mr Ms plan 
throughout that time and the charges were being levied for that service.
Scottish Widows initially held an incorrect address for Mr M where paperwork relating to the 
opening of his plan was sent. I can see the address recorded on the application form by 
Mr Ms adviser was unclear. And it didnt seem to match the address later recorded on an 
identification verification form that Scottish Widows were also sent. 
In those circumstances I would have expected Scottish Widows to clarify Mr Ms correct 
address. But they didnt. The result was that some of Mr Ms paperwork was incorrectly 
addressed. 
It seems Mr M became aware of the issue fairly quickly after speaking with his adviser and 
the address was later corrected. While I appreciate it was disappointing for Mr M, he didnt 
suffer any financial losses as a result of the paperwork being incorrectly sent. While the 
paperwork may have also noted a right to cancellation of the plan, Ive seen no evidence that 
Mr M was unhappy with the plan during the cancellation period. Which isnt surprising as 
hed only just taken it out. 
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling that businesses should ensure that important 
documents are received by their customer. For example, using recorded delivery. But its a 
legitimate business decision Scottish Widows are able to make as to how they communicate 
with their customers. The vast majority of post that is sent is received by its intended 
recipient, so I think its reasonable for Scottish Widows to have sent Mr Ms documents to 
him by standard post. 
Mr Ms main outstanding concern centres around the funds value when he moved it into a 
cash account. 
Im satisfied with Scottish Widows explanation that Mr Ms request to sell down his funds to 
cash on 2 August 2022 wasnt made until after their midday deadline. And while I havent 
seen evidence of the time of the call, Mr M hasnt disputed that. So, Scottish Widows didnt 
process the request until the following day - 3 August 2022. And Mr M received the next 
available price of his funds after the instruction was processed. 
Scottish Widows have acknowledged that they gave Mr M incorrect information on the 
telephone about when hed be able to see the value of his funds moving into the cash account. Mr M says when he called on 2 August 2022 Scottish Widows told him to watch the 
price until the end of the day and if it stayed the same, thats what hed get. But that was 
incorrect as Mr Ms request wasnt processed until the following day. So, he would have 
achieved the end of day price on 3 August 2022. And Scottish Widows explain that price 
wouldnt have been available to see on their website until 4 August 2022.
When a business makes an error in the information they give such as this, my role is to 
assess whether that led to a financial loss. Ive seen no evidence the request was processed 
incorrectly. So, on balance its likely Mr M was never entitled to the higher valuation he saw. 
Because the value he saw was for the value of the funds had the request been processed on 
2 August 2022, and his request wasnt processed until the following day. 
Mr M says that had he known his funds would be valued £1,500 less, he might not have 
gone ahead with the request. However, I cant agree with Mr Ms claim. I say that because 
Mr M couldnt have ever known the final value of his funds before switching them to cash. 
Funds such as these are subject to strict rules that mean the value is not known and cant be 
known before the transaction is processed. This is called forward pricing.
Mr Ms funds had already dropped in value and considering the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Mr M was looking to reduce his exposure to market volatility at that time. And as 
Ive explained, Scottish Widows wouldnt have been able to tell him whether the price he was 
going to receive was likely to drop (or increase) as it wasnt known at the time. Therefore, I 
dont think Mr M would have changed his course of action if hed been given correct 
information on the phone and would have always received the £197,321.55 that he did.
That being said, I think Scottish Widows caused Mr M a loss in expectation. He was told 
incorrect information about when hed be able to see the value of his funds. And the value he 
saw was higher than what he received in the end. So, he was caused upset by 
Scottish Widows error when he didnt get what he was expecting. 
Scottish Widows offered to pay £75 for the upset their incorrect information caused and I 
think that fairly reflects the upset caused. Mr M was abroad when he needed to call 
Scottish Widows, which was likely to have come at a cost to him. But Scottish Widows 
offered £7 to cover the cost of the call. And without any evidence to the contrary, I think 
thats likely to be sufficient. 
Overall, I can see that the service Mr Ms received from Scottish Widows wasnt perfect. And 
mistakes were made. But I dont think Mr M suffered any financial losses as a result of 
Scottish Widows errors. Scottish Widows have offered a total of £157 over the course of 
Mr Ms complaints with them. For the reasons Ive already given, I think that fairly reflects 
the upset and inconvenience Scottish Widows caused, so I wont ask them to do anything 
more. 
Putting things right
Scottish Widows Limited has already offered to pay a total of £157 to settle Mr Ms 
complaints. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is Scottish Widows Limited should pay Mr M a total of £157 if they havent done 
so already. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman