DRN-3074191
The complaint
Mr P complained that his claim following a fire in his flat was managed badly and unfairly 
settled under a block insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA). Mr P benefitted 
from the policy as a leaseholder of the damaged flat.  
What happened
Mr P made a fire claim to AXA on 7 May 2019. AXA appointed a loss adjuster, who visited 
Mr Ps property on 10 May 2019 to assess the damage to his kitchen. Mr P has complained 
on various points on how the claim was managed and settled.
Mr P said that AXA had dumped several activities on him to organise as he didnt think AXA 
had organised these effectively themselves, including the clean-up, testing of appliances, 
defogging and obtaining quotes for repairs.
AXA said a day one letter [from the loss adjuster] provided options for these elements.  The 
adjuster provided a scope of works to support you in obtaining estimates from contractors for 
consideration. It is part of the claims process that in the first instance we would request 
policyholders to obtain estimates by local contractors for damage which is being claimed, 
hence providing a scope of works to assist in making this task easier.
Mr P thought it was unfair he was not offered alternative accommodation and said this 
resulted in in his family living in terrible unhygienic and unhealthy conditions for over two 
months. Mr P said AXA failed to make regular payments for food at the agreed £25 per day.
AXA said the property was not deemed to be uninhabitable as the kitchen was serviceable 
with working appliances. The bathroom and sleeping areas were in full working order. It was 
only the hob which was damaged in the fire and the oven was unaffected and working. In 
respect to the regular food payments, AXA said this was set out in the day 1 letter and said 
these costs have since being settled.
Mr P commented on the loss adjusters process, saying he incorrectly listed the damage 
caused and made ridiculous valuations for repairs which wasted time and delayed the 
process. He also said AXA wouldnt allow him to pay for the non-damaged cupboards to be 
replaced so they all matched.
AXA said, a sub-contractor was offered to complete the repairs as per the specification 
required and only the damaged areas by the fire would be covered. It said the settlement 
offered was based on the contractors in the post code area of the risk address. In respect to 
the matched units AXA said, you offered to pay for the replacement cabinets however there 
would be labour costs to remove and refit which would not form part of the claim. 
Our investigator decided to partly uphold the complaint. He thought AXA showed lack of 
control in influencing positively the direction of the claim by not providing clear indication of 
how the claim would be settled. He said for the inconvenience and distress this caused, he 
would award £150 in compensation.  However, he didnt think Mr P has suffered any 
financial loss in how the claim was settled, so he didnt uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
Mr P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 8 September 2021. I said:
I have broken down the complaint into its main component parts to make it easier to follow 
my provisional decision.
Claim process
Mr P raised several issues in relation to his dissatisfaction with the claims process and AXA 
provided some responses to this. I have considered the points in aggregate as they all hinge 
on how well the claims process was managed. I have set out the perspectives of both parties 
in the introduction.
When I review how a claim has been handled, I will look at how well AXA, in this case, has 
guided Mr P through the claims process and I will consider whether I think it has followed a 
reasonable approach when compared to whats normal practice in the industry.
In general terms, AXA has followed a normal process. It has assessed the damage using a 
loss adjuster, asked the policyholder, Mr P, to get quotes for the scope of works and 
validated those costs against what it would normally expect to pay for similar pieces of work. 
It has tried to agree a settlement value with Mr P, and it has settled this in cash in line with 
its policy terms. I think the process it has followed is reasonable.
During this claim, I think AXA as an expert in claims handling shouldve provided suitable 
guidance and direction to Mr P, who wouldve had little experience of the claims process. Mr 
P wouldnt have been familiar with what the process was and what the role of each party in 
the claim was. I have reviewed some of the communications between AXA and Mr P and the 
evidence leads me to conclude that AXA didnt explain the process to Mr P well enough at 
the start, including its plans to cash settle the claim. I have examined its day 1 letter to Mr 
P and I think its vague and doesnt set out the expectations of what was to follow. This letter 
was followed by separate emails from the loss adjuster. I think Mr P wouldve have found the 
whole claim experience rather disjointed and frustrating.
With any insurance claim there will be an element of inconvenience for the policy holder from 
the incident itself and the claim. However, I dont think AXA has met reasonable standards in 
guiding Mr P through this process, so for the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
him, I intend to award £150 compensation.
Claim settlementI have reviewed the actual cash settlement Mr P received from AXA to see if this was 
determined in a fair way. I have looked at what both Mr P and AXA said, some of which is 
set out in the introduction.
Whilst I can see Mr P is disappointed with the settlement, I can see AXA has followed a 
sensible process in assessing the damage and validating the claim. For example, Mr P was 
unhappy that AXA wouldnt pay a higher contribution towards the costs of rectifying the 
kitchen units. I can see AXA has explained to Mr P why some costs were excluded, and its 
reasoning seems fair. So, having examined what AXA did take into consideration when 
negotiating the settlement, I think its approach has been reasonable. AXA has paid for the 
replacement / repair of the items damaged in the fire, which is its requirement under the 
terms and conditions. AXA wouldnt be liable to pay for additional works that were wanted by 
Mr P, but fell outside of what would be covered in the terms and conditions. Therefore, I 
think AXA has settled the claim fairly.
Alternative accommodation and food payment (disturbance allowance)
Mr P thought his family shouldve been offered alternative accommodation after the fire, but 
AXA declined the request as it didnt think the property was uninhabitable as the kitchen 
facilities were serviceable and it said there was no issue with the sleeping or bathroom 
facilities.
Our service would generally consider a property uninhabitable if there are no kitchen, 
bathroom or toilet facilities, or if its unsafe to be lived in. In order to decide if I think AXA has 
been fair in declining alternative accommodation, I have reviewed the report of the incident 
made by the loss adjuster. The report stated, Fortunately the Leaseholder has managed to 
contain the fire and put it out himself without having to call the fire service and Due to the 
actions of a Leaseholder damage [is] relative minor. The loss adjuster went on to report an 
allowance is to be considered as a disturbance with the period of the repairs. I have 
reviewed the photographs of the damage that accompany the report and the report 
commentary is consistent with what I have observed in the photographs. I am persuaded 
that the loss adjusters recommendation of a disturbance allowance was correct in these 
circumstances. I think AXA were reasonable in concluding the kitchen was serviceable. So, I 
think AXA has been fair in declining alternative accommodation.
Mr P was unhappy as he didnt think AXA had fully settled the disturbance allowance (£25 a 
day) for the full period of the repairs. Mr P said I was paid for 62 days food allowance @ 
£25 per day. The works were not completed until July 25 2019, which is 79 days. So, I 
believe 17 days @ £25 per day is due. 
AXA said it has paid the settlement in full. Normally, I would say this was the end of the 
matter as a settlement had been agreed. However, given Mr Ps lack of clarity on the claims 
process and no written evidence he accepted the claim I have considered this further. I have 
also noted that the loss adjuster recommended this payment was made for the period of the 
repairs. I have looked at when the settlement was sent to Mr P for agreement. This was on 
25 June 2019. Assuming the money was paid reasonably promptly, it wouldve likely it was 
received by Mr P during the following week. Mr P arranged his own contracting works and 
has provided evidence that these were completed on 26 July 2019, this wouldve been 
around three weeks after receiving his settlement. I think Mr P had managed to arrange his 
works and get them completed promptly. As he wouldve been without the full use of his 
kitchen until it was repaired, I think its fair to expect the disturbance allowance to cover this 
period in line with the loss adjusters recommendation. I have calculated 73 days from the 
incident date on 7 May 2019 to the works completion on 26 July 2019.As Mr P has only been paid for 62 days, I think its fair that AXA pay the disturbance 
allowance for a further 11 days at the agreed rate of £25 to cover the period to 26 July 2019. 
Therefore, I uphold this aspect of the complaint and intend AXA to pay Mr P £275 additional 
allowance for disturbance.
In respect to when the disturbance allowance was paid, Mr P was unhappy it wasnt paid 
until the end of the claim. AXA said options for payment were set out at the start of the claim. 
I have seen evidence that supports this statement. As I havent seen evidence that Mr P 
requested payments in instalments, Im persuaded that AXA did nothing wrong on this point.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA accepted my findings and said it would pay Mr P the additional disturbance allowance 
and compensation once Mr P had accepted the final decision.
Mr P said he accepted my decision in respect to the £275 disturbance allowance. 
However, he thought the compensation I awarded for distress and inconvenience caused by 
the claims process was too low. He said it did not reflect the distress caused and the time 
spent on the matter. Nor the time dealing with the repairs which were dumped on me 
incorrectly and delays. £150 is nothing. This is not even a days salary. It also does not 
reflect the time spent alone dealing with the complaintI would suggest at least £500.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P hasnt provided any new information, the points hes raised were considered as part of 
my provisional decision and in coming to the compensation I awarded. So, Im not changing 
my decision. I dont deny that Mr P will have suffered a great deal of inconvenience, but I 
think much of this was down to the incident itself which led to the need to raise a claim and 
have it validated. It wouldnt be fair for me to ask AXA to pay compensation for this as this 
isnt its fault. The compensation I have awarded reflects what I think is fair for AXA to pay for 
not providing Mr P with more support through the process, as I explained in more detail in 
my provisional decision. It is in line with what our service would normally award.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK plc to pay 
Mr P:
£150* compensation  for distress and inconvenience caused by the claims process
£275 disturbance allowance  for 11 additional days 
* AXA Insurance UK plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman