DRN-2941754
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains about the customer service received from Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, trading as Barclaycard, when it tried to settle and close Mrs Ss credit card account. 
The estate of Mrs S is represented in this complaint by her daughter-in-law, Mrs S2.
What happened
Mrs S died in October 2020. Her daughter-in-law, Mrs S2, contacted Barclaycard to notify it 
of Mrs Ss passing and to settle Mrs Ss credit card account. After numerous calls to 
Barclaycard to confirm the balance Mrs S2 settled it and asked for confirmation of the 
settlement in writing. 
Mrs S2 said she then had to chase confirmation many times by telephone. On 18 March 
2021 she received a letter from Barclaycard which requested settlement, but the letter did 
not confirm the amount to be settled nor did it acknowledge that Mrs S2 had already made a 
payment. Mrs S2 said she didnt get any help from the bereavement telephone line, so she 
complained to Barclaycard.
In its final response Barclaycard said that as it had discussed Mrs S2s concerns with her, 
her complaint was now resolved and closed. Mrs S2 didnt agree and brought her complaint 
to this service. She said the bereavement team were meant to help, not add to the stress of 
bereavement. She asked for compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
this.
Our investigator concluded that there were some customer service issues, including that 
there were unnecessary delays from Barclaycard and that a letter was issued in error. But as 
Mrs S2 was acting on behalf of the estate of Mrs S, he couldnt award any compensation. In 
response to Mrs S2s complaint about how her original complaint was handled the 
investigator confirmed our service would be unable to consider that. Mrs S2 felt let down by 
the bereavement team at Barclaycard and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to express my sympathy to Mrs S2 and her family for the loss of Mrs S. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to them, but I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything 
further. 
I can see from the transaction history and the system notes Barclaycard has provided, that 
the balance was settled on 8 January. There are no contact notes on the account until 3 
March 2021 when Mrs S2 spoke with Barclaycard again about confirmation of the balance. 
Mrs S2 then called again on 18 March concerning a letter she received about an outstanding 
balance.
Barclaycard has accepted that there was a delay confirming the balance had been paid and 
that an incorrect letter was sent to the estate of Mrs S in March. And in its response to this 
service it apologised to Mrs S2 and the estate of Mrs S for these errors. It said when it 
received Mrs S2s complaint letter it arranged for a confirmation letter to be sent apologising 
for the incorrect information sent and confirming the balance had been paid in full. Im 
pleased it has recognised these errors. 
Mrs S2 said she feels let down by the bereavement team. She said shed been affected 
emotionally and financially by these errors and has asked for compensation. I can 
understand how these administration errors would have been worrisome at a very sad time. 
Our service operates under a set of rules, known as DISP, laid down by Parliament under 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. These are published by and are available from 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
These rules determine who is eligible to bring a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service (known as an eligible complainant). The rules say the late Mrs Ss estate is an 
eligible complainant. Mrs S2 represents the estate but that doesnt make her a customer of 
Barclaycard, or an eligible complainant under our rules. Mrs S2s standing in this complaint 
is as a representative of the administrator for the estate, her husband. This means that when 
assessing fair compensation, I cant take account of any time Mrs S2 has taken, or any 
trouble and upset or distress she feels shes been put to, as shes not the eligible 
complainant. No disrespect is meant by this and Ive no doubt this has been an unpleasant 
experience for Mrs S2. Sadly, Ive no power to order that she be compensated personally for 
that. I can award compensation to Mrs Ss estate if I believe it has suffered financial loss as 
a result of any bank errors. Mrs S2 hasnt specified what, if any, financial loss occurred. And 
Im satisfied there wasnt any.
Mrs S2 also complained about the way Barclaycard handled her complaint. She said she 
spoke to the bereavement team and made it very clear that she wasnt happy about how 
theyd handled everything. But she said they wouldnt listen, and she had to push to get 
them to acknowledge that she wanted to make a complaint.
Im sorry to hear her concerns. DISP also sets out the scope of our powers and  of 
relevance here  the type of complaints we can consider. In this case, Mrs S2s complaint 
about Barclaycard is a standalone complaint point about the way in which Barclaycard 
handled Mrs S2s original complaint. And in this circumstance complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity. Its therefore not a complaint we can consider.
So, for the reasons stated above I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman