DRN-1602689
 
The complaint
Mr A says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 12 six-month instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr A between 
February 2018 and November 2018. This is a summary of Mr As lending history from 
Sunny. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 12/02/2018 28/02/2018 550
2 14/02/2018 28/02/2018 50
3 02/03/2018 27/07/2018 600
4 03/04/2018 28/06/2018 150
5 07/05/2018 25/08/2018 250
6 29/05/2018 28/06/2018 50
7 30/06/2018 28/11/2018 250
8 27/07/2018 14/06/2019 300
9 28/08/2018 28/01/2019 250
10 28/09/2018 26/10/2018 50
11 27/10/2018 14/06/2019 200
12 28/11/2018 14/06/2019 250
 
Loans 8, 11 and 12 were not settled in full but Sunny agreed to a partial settlement and 
wrote-off the remaining balances.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint in part and thought loans 5 onwards shouldnt have 
been given. Sunny disagreed, but said it should have done more to understand Mr As 
finances from loan 8 onwards and made an offer to uphold his complaint from this point. 
Mr A rejected this offer so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Sunny has told us about the affordability and creditworthiness checks it carried out. I think 
these were proportionate for loans 1 to 4. It has provided a summary of the information it 
gathered, and from that I cant see anything that suggests it should have made different 
lending decisions. So I dont think it was wrong to give Mr A loans 1 to 4.
But I agree with the adjudicator that Sunny should have declined Mr As applications from 
loan 5 onwards, and for largely the same reason, but supported by additional information. 
She said that the lender should have stopped lending at this stage as Mr A had two loans 
outstanding with Sunny, as well as one with a different short-term lender. And this should 
have alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Mr A was having problems managing his money. 
So Sunny should have stopped lending as it was unlikely that Mr A would be able to 
sustainably repay this and any subsequent loans.   
Sunny disagreed, saying it allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time to 
give them flexibility and more freedom to manage their finances. And it had asked Mr A about all his expenses including any short-term lending commitments. Its checks showed 
loan 5 left Mr A with a reasonable amount of disposable income and so was affordable. 
I have considered Sunnys comments. I think its fair to argue that because of how its 
product works concurrent loans with Sunny are not automatically a sign of problems 
managing money, although they could be in some circumstances. I do think though that 
repeatedly taking out new loans might warrant more comprehensive checks before agreeing 
to lend. And in this case, as Mr A had two loans outstanding and it was his fifth request to 
borrow in less than three months, I think Sunny should have increased the level of checks it 
was carrying out by loan 5 - and done more to independently check Mr As financial position. 
Had Sunny carried out proportionate checks for loan 5 it would most likely have shown that 
Mr A was having problems managing his money. We asked Mr A for copies of his credit file 
and bank statements, so we could understand what better checks would most likely have 
shown Sunny.  I am not saying Sunny had to use bank statements just that this could have 
been one way to better understand Mr As financial position. He didnt provide these so I 
dont have a full picture of his financial situation, but from other complaints he has brought to 
this service I can see that he had two other short-term loans at this time with different 
lenders, in addition to the two with Sunny. So had Sunny carried out better checks I think it 
would have concluded that it was unlikely Mr A could sustainably repay loan 5, and any 
subsequent loans. So it should have stopped lending to Mr A at this point. It follows I think 
Sunny was wrong to give loans 5 to 7 to Mr A.
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
8. I note it agreed with this in its response to our adjudicator. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr A was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr A had taken out at least one new loan, at times two, every month 
between February 2018 and July 2018. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Mr A was having problems managing his money and that Mr As 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr As pattern of borrowing was in itself evidence of the unsustainability of the 
lending. He took out loan 3 just days after repaying loans 1 and 2; loan 7 two days 
after repaying loan 4; and loan 8 on the same day as he repaid loan 3. So I think 
Sunny ought to have realised there was a risk that he was borrowing to make up for 
the hole in his finances that repaying previous loans had caused. And it was likely 
that Mr A had longer-term financial issues, not just a short-term cash flow problem.    
When he took out loan 8, loans 5 and 7 were still outstanding so Mr As capital owing 
was more than at the time of his first loan. Mr A wasnt making any real inroads to the 
amount he owed Sunny. Loan 12 was taken out over 10 months after Mr As first. Mr 
A had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period. This is a high volume of relending, and the loans Sunny was giving 
Mr A were high cost  so I think they were most likely unsuitable for his apparent 
ongoing need.
I think that Mr A lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 onwards 
because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr As ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
It follows I am upholding this complaint about loans 5 onwards and Sunny must put things 
right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A) It should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans, not including anything it has already refunded.
B) It should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) It can  if it chooses to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which it has 
written-off.
D) It should pay any remaining refund to Mr A. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal it would not be fair to pursue those further.
E) It should remove any adverse information about loans 5 to 7 that it has recorded on Mr 
As credit file. The overall pattern of Mr As borrowing for loans 8 to 12 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans entirely 
from Mr As credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends to 
use the refund to reduce an amount Mr As owes, it must do this after tax.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding this complaint in part from loan 5 onwards. 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) must put things right as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman