DRN-3424380
The complaint
Mr R complains that the service he received from Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) 
caused his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to suffer a loss in potential investment 
returns.
What happened
Mr R had an Aegon SIPP that was set up in December 2019 by his employer. It was a 
workplace pension scheme, but Mr R was able to transfer existing pensions into this Aegon 
SIPP. The SIPP offered Mr R online access to his SIPP.
Mr R already had a different SIPP with Aegon that had around £160,000. The fund had been 
held as cash in that SIPP for a number of years.
Mr Rs new SIPP was set up to receive regular employer contributions as well as personal 
contributions. Mr Rs application for the SIPP, via his employer agreed to the default 
investment strategy that had been set up by the employer for its scheme with Aegon. Which, 
as of 17 December 2019, was the Aegon Workplace Default Fund.
Mr R sought to transfer the funds in his other Aegon SIPP to this workplace pension. He 
completed an online request initially on 30 January 2020 and then a paper application. The 
transferring account number was entered incorrectly on the application by Mr R. The ceding 
SIPP provider updated Scottish Equitable that the requested policy number had already 
been transferred in 2016.
Scottish Equitable informed Mr R of this on 4 February 2020. Mr R called Aegon to query 
this and was told he should contact his ceding scheme to find out why it believed the policy 
no longer existed. The error in the policy reference number was identified and the transfer 
application was resubmitted on 6 February 2020 via the Origo Options platform. The transfer 
completed on 25 February 2020, and the transfer value was invested in the default fund 
selection, completing on 26 February 2020.
Mr R requested that the fund be switched back into cash on 29 February 2020. Which was 
completed by 4 March 2020.
Mr R complained to Scottish Equitable over a number of issues with his pension transfer and 
online SIPP access. Scottish Equitable responded to his complaint. It didnt agree that it was 
responsible for the time the transfer took, or the way that the transfer value was 
subsequently invested on receipt. But it did agree that it ought to have responded to Mr Rs 
requests for upgraded online access sooner, to enable him to set up an ISA and to open 
more investment choices on his SIPP. It calculated that the delay meant that Mr R potentially 
lost £1.34 in investment growth on his SIPP. The delay also meant that the ISA he was 
transferring could have transferred sooner. And Scottish Equitable calculated that the delay 
meant that Mr R actually gained £10.41 as a result of the delay. It offered Mr R £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience its service failing caused him.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with the response and asked our service to look into what happened. 
Our investigator didnt think that Scottish Equitable caused unreasonable delays in the 
transfer, and that they hadnt made mistakes in the way the transferred pension was 
invested. She agreed that Scottish Equitable identified some service failings, but that it had 
tried to put things right in a fair way.
Mr R didnt agree so his complaint has been referred for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked into everything Ive reached the same opinion as our investigator, for much 
the same reasons. I understand that Mr R is unhappy with the answer he has been given. 
He is concerned that he may have lost out on growth in his pension fund. But I have to 
consider the actions of Scottish Equitable and what its responsibilities were. And for the 
reasons Ill explain, I think that it tried to deal with Mr Rs complaint in a fair and reasonable 
way. In trying to do that, I will address those things that I consider to be the main issues of 
concern that I need to give an answer on. I may not address every point that has been 
made. This is because it is the job of our service to provide informal resolutions as an 
alternative to the courts. Id still like to reassure Mr R that Ive considered all of the evidence 
and points made over the time this complaint has been with us.
I understand that Mr R was concerned at the time the pension switch took. He considered 
that the switch was an internal one as it was moving from one part of Aegon to another. But 
the SIPPs were very different products dealt with by what were effectively different parts of 
the business family. The transfer request was made through Origo Options which is an 
online transfer platform. It wouldnt have necessarily processed any quicker than a transfer 
from any other pension provider. Moreover, Scottish Equitable didnt give Mr R any 
expectation that the switch would process quicker than normal.
I understand that Mr R was initially caused concern at having been informed that the pension 
that he wanted to switch had already transferred. But I can also see that the confusion was 
cleared up fairly quickly. The issue of the incorrect policy number being quickly identified. Its 
an understandable and simple mistake, but the mistake was made by Mr R, so it would be 
unfair to attribute any delay from this to Scottish Equitable.
The transfer between SIPPs took 13 working days. Whilst I agree with Mr R that this was not 
particularly quick, a transfer can take two to four weeks. Even if being transferred as cash. I 
havent seen evidence that this amount of time was either unavoidable, or unreasonable. 
In any case, Mr Rs ceding SIPP was held in cash. And he has been clear that was the way 
he wanted his SIPP held. In fact his issue is that following the transfer his fund was invested 
and he had to move it back into cash. So the time it took the SIPPs to switch would not have 
disadvantaged Mr R if the SIPP was held in the way he wanted it to be anyway. So, like our 
investigator, I havent found any issue with the way in which Scottish Equitable handled the 
switch.
Ive then considered what happened with the transferred fund after it was received in Mr Rs 
workplace SIPP. The received fund was invested in the default fund choice that Scottish 
Equitable held for Mr Rs policy. Which I think was fair. The policy was put in place by Mr Rs 
employer. Ive seen evidence that the employer offered Mr R the choice of whether or not to 
have contributions invested in line with its financial advisers choice of default fund. And Mr 
R accepted that. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the workplace pension. I think that it makes it clear 
that the default fund would be the investment choice for contributions and for transfers in. So 
I dont think that Scottish Equitable made a mistake in the way that it processed the 
contributions or transfers to the workplace SIPP. It had a standing instruction on the policy 
that it followed. 
I can see that Mr R made requests to move from the default fund via the online access to his 
workplace SIPP. These requests were made for the contributions that were made monthly 
as well as for the transferred fund value. Ive seen no delays in the way that those funds 
were processed on the platform. 
I have looked at the contact that Mr R had with Scottish Equitable in the run up to the 
pension switch that completed on 25 February 2020. Ive seen that Mr R complained on 
6 February regarding the fact that hed been incorrectly told that the SIPP he wanted to 
transfer wasnt available. But this didnt highlight a concern with the way his workplace SIPP 
was being invested. Nor did it indicate his wish to invest in a different manner. 
Ive seen from Mr Rs email of 22 February 2020 that he was frustrated with his online 
access. He expressed in that email that he wished to rearrange his pensions and investment 
funds but couldnt. But it didnt indicate how he wanted to invest. Nor did it indicate that he 
wished to change the default investment choices on his workplace SIPP. It is also worth 
noting that 22 February 2020 was a Saturday, so wouldnt have realistically been addressed 
until after 24 February 2020. 
The SIPP switch completed on 25 February and was moved to the default fund, completing 
on 26 February 2020. So I dont think that Scottish Equitable could have realistically 
responded to the email of 22 February in a way that would have made any difference to what 
happened. It also appears that Mr R made a request to transfer funds from the default fund 
to cash on 26 February 2020. This request covered the contributions that his SIPP received 
in January and February 2020. I think this shows that Mr R was able to use his SIPP 
platform to request investment change at that time. That requested change was followed on 
26 February 2020 with an instruction to move the transferred fund value from the default 
fund to cash as well. 
It doesnt appear that Mr Rs transferred sum was held in the default fund for very long. And I 
dont think that Scottish Equitable were to blame for it being invested in that way in the first 
place.
Mr R also complained that the access he had to his SIPP, via his online portal, didnt allow 
him to make the investment choices he later wanted to make. The access he had, would 
have been set up by his employer when his workplace SIPP was started. The details of this 
were included in the Aegon Retirement Choices (ARC) guide, and its terms and conditions. I 
dont think Scottish Equitable were to blame for the level of access that Mr R had. But it has 
identified that it ought to have acted sooner to address this for him. Which I think was a fair 
conclusion. 
Mr R was finally able to make the investments in equities that he wished on 20 March 2020. 
But only invested £40 of his SIPP value. Scottish Equitable acknowledged that it could have 
responded to his request to upgrade his online access more promptly. And that it could have 
provided the access by 12 March instead. Which I think was not unreasonable. But it 
calculated that would have meant that Mr R would have lost potential investment growth of 
£1.34.
Scottish Equitables offer of £400 to put things right seems to me to have been a fair and 
reasonable way to compensate Mr R for the overall distress and inconvenience that its identified service failing caused. For this reason, I think that Scottish Equitable addressed 
Mr Rs complaint in a fair way, and I wont ask it to do anything else.
My final decision
Scottish Equitable Plc has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Scottish Equitable Plc should pay Mr R £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman