DRN-4068959
The complaint
Mr S and Mr W complain about the way International General Insurance Company (UK) Ltd 
(IGIC) has settled a claim under its marine insurance policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr S and Mr W co-own a vessel for which they have marine insurance. The policy is 
underwritten by IGIC. For ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr S throughout my decision.
When the vessels mast snapped, Mr S sought to make a claim under the policy to 
have the damage repaired. Mr S provided quotes which estimated the repairs to be 
approximately £10,000. 
Initially IGIC rejected the claim on the basis its surveyor had said the most likely 
cause of the damage was wear and tear or corrosion.
Mr S disputed the surveyors findings and instructed his own surveyor who reached a 
different conclusion. 
IGIC accepted there was some doubt as to whether wear and tear was the cause of 
the damage and so, accepted the claim. At first, it offered £3,000 but subsequently 
increased this to £6,500 (subject to a £150 excess) having agreed to Mr S retaining 
the salvage. 
IGIC paid the settlement amount, but Mr S later said he didnt consider it to be fair. 
He said that as the total sum insured was £9,500, this is what IGIC should pay. He 
also considered £50 compensation  for delays whilst handling the claim - to be 
insufficient. So, he brought a complaint to this Service.
An Investigator considered it but didnt uphold it. Because Mr S remained unhappy, 
the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Settlement amount
The policy limit for Mr S policy is £9,500. The crux of his complaint is that he wants IGIC to 
pay £9,500  the sum insured  towards the cost of repairing his vessel. Hes said hell cover 
the difference between the cost of the repairs and the insured amount because whilst the 
vessel might be considered beyond economic repair, he wants to keep the vessel in use. 
IGIC has said the market value for similar vessels was around £7,500, and as Mr S wanted 
to retain the salvage, it agreed a settlement of £6,500. Mr S hasnt disputed the market value 
IGIC presented, nor has he argued the salvage deduction. And on its face, in light of the 
evidence presented by Mr S, I see no reason to question these sums.
Insurers do take into account costs when considering different methods of repair or how to 
settle a claim. This in itself isnt unfair, and I dont think its unreasonable to expect insurers 
to be prudent when making this kind of decision. IGIC has chosen to cash settle the market 
value of the vessel. Mr S instead wants it to contribute towards the repair as this is the 
greater sum. And while I recognise Mr S request, Im satisfied it falls to IGIC to determine 
how it chooses to settle the claim  as long as it has done so fairly in the circumstances
So, for the reasons above, Im satisfied its reasonable IGIC is only required to pay the 
market value  subject to a deduction for salvage  and so, I wont be asking it to increase 
the settlement amount. 
Compensation 
IGIC has accepted there was a delay of a few weeks whilst handling Mr S claim  some of 
which was attributable to a delay with its surveyor producing the report, and discussions 
which took place to reach a final position on the claim. Its reasonable that an insurer would 
need to spend time considering a claim  especially when the policyholder is challenging the 
outcome of it. 
Whilst I understand Mr S is unhappy IGIC initially declined the claim and says this caused 
unnecessary delays - which in turn meant the repair costs increased  its initial decision was 
based on the information it had available at the time  namely, its surveyors report which 
said wear and tear or corrosion was the most likely cause of the damage, and therefore, 
wasnt covered. 
Following evidence supplied by Mr S surveyor, it reviewed things  which is what Id expect 
it to do.  So, whilst things may have taken longer, Im not persuaded this is wholly 
attributable to IGICs handling of the claim. 
And so, whilst there were some delays, these were for a relatively short period of time. And 
on balance, I consider £50 compensation to be reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman