DRN-4045022
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has failed to refund over 
£300,000 he says he lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But in summary, Mr G 
sent £300,000 via a number of debit card payments, over a number of months, to a company 
that I will call B. Mr G lost this money trading on this platform.
Mr G raised a complaint with Nationwide as he believed that it should have stopped these 
payments. He therefore requested that Nationwide refund him. Nationwide declined to do 
this.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they did not think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong. Mr G disagreed and therefore his complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Nationwide could have delayed the payment(s) while concerns about the 
payee were discussed with Mr G.
Firstly I should explain that I do not things the payments on their own were sufficiently out of 
character compared to Mr Gs usual payment history for them to have prompted intervention 
from Nationwide. I say this because Mr G frequently made large payments to a variety of 
trading websites.
But even had Nationwide needed to have intervened, and I dont think it did, I would need to 
be satisfied that there were concerns that B was operating a scam when Mr G made the 
payments to it. Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about 
merchants that operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own 
warning list. These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that 
there were no warnings about B at the time Mr G made his payment.
At the time Mr G made his payments, B was a trading name of a company which was and 
remains a legitimate trading company that is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
So, Nationwide at the time would only have known that Mr Gs money went to a business 
that was operating legitimately at the time. 
Overall Im not persuaded that there was any reason for Nationwide to have been aware that  
B was fraudulent or operating a scam at the time of the payments. As a result, Nationwides 
duty to intervene wasnt triggered. Therefore, I dont consider the bank acted unfairly by 
preventing or failing to intervene in the payments being made. 
Mr G representative has raised a number of reasons as to why B was not operating 
correctly. These include that B was providing leverage in excess of the amounts that it 
shouldve provided. It says that B misled Mr G in relation to where his funds would go to and 
that the name of the company the payments were made to differed from the name of the 
company.
In relation to the majority of these points, I wouldnt have expected Nationwide to have 
known this, or to have prevented a payment being made to the B as a result, given it was 
going to a legitimate company.  So, I dont consider there to be any basis in which 
Nationwide can fairly or reasonably be held liable for his loss on this basis either. 
In relation to the different names appearing on his bank statements, this is a common thing. 
The name of the company paid can often differ slightly from its trading name.
I note Mr Gs comments that he thought that he was paying a UK company but the funds 
were being sent to a company registered in the Bahamas. But again, I dont think Nationwide 
should have known this or intervened to discuss the payments due to them not being out of 
character and being made to what appears to be a legitimate company. 
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide ought to have done anything to recover the 
funds after Mr G reported his loss. As the payments were made by debit card, there are 
some instances where the funds could have been recovered by chargeback. But in this 
instance, Mr G received what he paid for, so I dont think it likely that any chargeback claim 
would have been successful anyway.
Nationwide also wouldnt have been under any obligation to consider refunding the payment 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either. This is because the 
payments were made by debit card.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr G, and Im sorry to hear he has 
lost a significant amount of money. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would 
be fair and reasonable to hold Nationwide liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman