DRN-2333966
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI taken out in 2000 to cover an existing 
mortgage and a new advance.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Not all the records now exist, which isnt surprising given how long ago this all happened. 
But from what Ive seen, I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned in the 
documents at the time, and that it would have been presented as a choice. And I dont have 
evidence to show that Lloyds didnt make clear the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure 
that Mrs and Mr C freely chose to take it. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr C, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Cs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Cs situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr C (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits if Mr C was off sick for a period  and from what 
weve been told he wasnt entitled to employer sickness benefits. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. So this all would have put 
Mrs and Mr C in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr C would 
have been affected by any of these
I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. It 
would then be up to Mrs and Mr C to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mrs and Mr C took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its unlikely this would 
have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman