DRN-2117524
The complaint
Miss M complained that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (Somerset) provided 
her with incorrect information regarding her excess amount, prior to and following her taking 
out a motor insurance policy with it. 
What happened
Miss M took out a car insurance policy with Somerset on 6 March 2019. Prior to taking out 
the policy Miss M phoned Somerset to check whether an additional young and 
inexperienced driver excess of £300 applied to her, as she was under the age of 21 at the 
time. She was told it didnt and only the compulsory excess of £450 applied. Miss M phoned 
Somerset again after receiving her policy documents. She wanted to clarify the same point, 
as the documents suggested she would need to also pay the additional £300 excess in the 
event of a claim. She was again told the excess was limited to £450.  
Miss M was involved in an incident with another car in May 2019 and was contacted by 
Somerset in July 2019. Although Miss M was not required to pay any excess on that 
occasion, she was told the total excess amount on her policy was £750 as the young and 
inexperienced driver excess applied to her. Miss M complained to Somerset.  
Somerset acknowledged that Miss M had been told on two occasions that her excess was 
only £450 when it was actually £750. It apologised that shed been misadvised, but said it 
was not upholding her complaint. Somerset said Miss M didnt want to have to pay the 
excess in the event of a claim, but as she hadnt made a claim it wasnt able to address that 
concern. It said it cant work with hypothetical situations and it would look into this matter 
again in the event of a future claim.  
Miss M was unhappy with the response from Somerset and complained to this service. She 
said she bought the policy because shed been told the excess was £450. She queried the 
excess again after reading the policy documents and seeing the additional excess amount. 
But she was again told the £300 young and inexperienced driver excess didnt apply to her. 
Miss M said she wasnt in a position where she could afford a £750 excess if she had to 
make a claim. Miss M wants Somerset to set the excess amount at £450 or compensate her 
for the inconvenience and stress this has caused her. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint. She said Somerset has acknowledged it gave 
Miss M incorrect information about the excess amount in February and March. She said 
Miss M hadnt been affected financially by the error and so it was fair for Somerset to say it 
would look into this matter later, if a claim was made before the policy end date. However, 
our investigator also said the error had caused Miss M some distress and inconvenience and 
asked Somerset to pay compensation of £50. 
Somerset didnt agree with what our investigator said. It said it accepts theres been some 
miscommunication, but there were no financial repercussions for Miss C and she wasnt in a 
position where she might be concerned about a financial loss. It said Miss C chose to 
escalate this matter as a complaint and it didnt think this was necessary. So it doesnt think 
compensation is appropriate.  
As a result, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Miss Ms complaint. 
Somerset has acknowledged it made an error when it told Miss M on two occasions that her 
excess was limited to £450, when the correct amount was £750. Ive listened to the various 
phone calls made by Miss M to Somerset and I can see she asked very specific questions 
about how her age might impact on the excess amount on her policy. So Im satisfied that 
Somerset incorrectly answered the questions asked by Miss M. And Im also satisfied that 
its likely Miss M would have looked elsewhere for a policy if she had known that the full 
excess amount was £750. And this is because Miss M said just that during one of the calls. 
When Miss M complained to this service, she still had a car insurance policy with Somerset 
and said she would like her excess to be set at the amount she was originally told it would 
be, so £450. But Miss M didnt renew her policy with Somerset and I believe she was never 
asked to pay the excess amount. And this means Miss M hasnt suffered a financial loss. 
And as she no longer has a policy with Somerset, there isnt likely to be a future loss. So 
theres no reason to look at the question of whether it was fair for Somerset to keep Miss Ms 
excess at £750 or whether it should have honoured the lower amount of £450.  
But Im satisfied Miss M was inconvenienced by Somersets error. She was put in a position 
where she had to make contact with Somerset, contact that she would not have had to make 
but for its error, so that she could clarify the situation with regard to her excess. And Im 
satisfied she experienced some distress when she became aware that the excess amount 
was significantly more than she had been told it was, and Miss M said she would have 
struggled to afford £750 in the event of a claim. And Miss M was understandably unhappy 
that she had been induced to buy a policy that she might not otherwise have bought, but for 
Somersets error. 
So Im satisfied that a fair resolution is for Somerset to pay Miss M £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience its error caused her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Somerset Bridge Insurance 
Services Limited to pay £50 to Miss M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman