DRN-4379022
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money he lost when he was 
the victim of what he feels was a scam.
What happened
In 2021, Mr W was contacted by his ex-partner and asked to help her with her finances. She 
told him she was going through bankruptcy, had a county court judgment against her and 
needed help to pay her mortgage. Mr W says he was pressured into helping her by his ex-
partner and her mother. And ultimately, he agreed to help and so made a number of 
payments to his ex-partner, to people she owed money to and to her mother  including a 
number of payments from his Barclays account.
Mr W says he made these payments on the understanding that his ex-partner would pay him 
back. He says he also had a written agreement with her to pay some of the money back, 
which she signed, but that she has now destroyed the agreement and is refusing to pay the 
money back. Mr W therefore reported the payments to Barclays as a scam and asked it to 
refund the money he has lost.
Barclays investigated but said Mr W knew both his ex-partner and her mother personally and 
had made payments to them both previously. So it felt this was a private, civil dispute 
between them, rather than a scam, and so it didnt agree to refund the payments Mr W had 
made. Barclays did pay Mr W £100 as compensation for delays in responding to his claim 
though. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said Mr W was aware of the 
payments and the reasons for them, so they thought this was civil dispute between him and 
his ex-partner  rather than a scam. And they didnt think Barclays should have been 
expected to stop the payments. So they didnt think Barclays should be required to refund 
the money Mr W had lost. Mr W disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund the payments 
Mr W made. Ill explain why below.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mr W 
accepts he made the payments here. So while I recognise he now feels he was misled about 
the reason for the payments and that his ex-partner has gone back on an agreement to pay 
him back, he did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is that Barclays 
was obliged to follow his instructions and make the payments. So Mr W isnt automatically 
entitled to a refund.
There are certain activities banks are expected to carry out to try to protect their customers 
from falling victim to scams, and certain protections in place for customers who do fall victim 
to scams. But, before looking at whether Barclays has done what wed expect it to do or 
whether these protections apply, I must first be satisfied that Mr W has been the victim of a 
scam.
Mr W says his ex-partner told him she was experiencing financial difficulty, and he agreed to 
make the payments on that basis. So he doesnt appear to have been misled about the 
purpose of the payments he was making. He also knew both his ex-partner and her mother 
personally and had made payments to them before. So he doesnt appear to have been 
misled about who he was paying or who would benefit from the money.
So I dont think what happened here matches our usual definition of a scam, and I think it 
more closely matches a private, civil dispute between Mr W and his ex-partner. And so I 
think Barclays has acted reasonably in not treating it as a scam and in not refunding the 
payments Mr W made.
Mr W has said his ex-partner has destroyed a written agreement they had signed, and that 
she has previously scammed another former partner of hers. But Barclays wasnt party to 
the written agreement, and the other former partners circumstances appear to be 
significantly different to Mr Ws So I still dont think this matches our usual definition of a 
scam, and that it more closely matches a civil dispute.
In any event, even if this did meet the definition of a scam, I dont think anything we would 
reasonably have expected Barclays to have done would have stopped Mr W making the 
payments.
We expect banks to take steps to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm, 
including monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at 
risk of financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to 
prevent customers falling victims to scams.
But even if Barclays had identified that Mr W could be at risk of financial harm and 
intervened in some of these payments, I think he would have told it he was lending money to 
his ex-partner to help with her financial circumstances. Mr W was aware of all the payments 
being made, he knew the people he was sending money to personally and he had plausible 
reasons for making the payments. Its also not Barclays responsibility to advise him on the 
risks of lending money to other people.
So, as Mr W was aware of the payments and was happy for them to be made at the time, I 
wouldnt have expected Barclays to do anything further or to stop him making the payments.
I appreciate how strongly Mr W feels about this case, and that his ex-partner is now refusing 
to pay the money back to him. I sympathise with the position he has found himself in, and 
Im in no way saying he did anything wrong or that he doesnt have a legitimate grievance 
against his ex-partner. But I can only look at Barclays responsibilities and, for the reasons 
Ive explained above, I dont think anything I would reasonably have expected Barclays to do 
would have stopped the payments or that it would be fair to require Barclays to refund any of 
the payments he made.
Barclays has paid Mr W £100 as compensation or the delays in responding to his claim. 
And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think this offer was fair and reasonable and I dont 
think it would be fair to require Barclays to do anything further.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman