DRN-2700660
The complaint
Mr C complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money compromised his 
personal data.
What happened
Mr C had a personal loan account with 118 118 Money. He says he received 
correspondence from 118 118 Money dated 28 March 2020 which stated that it had 
discovered illegal and unauthorised access to its network. It said telephone recordings had 
been potentially accessed and as a result personal customer data may have been 
compromised. It said it was carrying out a full investigation.
Mr C says that after receiving this correspondence he was subject to phishing calls. He says 
this must have been related to what had happened with 118 118 Money. He complained to 
118 118 Money.
It investigated his complaint. It said it had reported the incident to all of the regulatory bodies 
including the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) the National Cyber Security Centre 
and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said it had engaged independent cyber experts 
to review the situation and they had reported that there was no evidence of attacker mass 
data theft other than some call recordings. 
118 118 Money said that no debit card details had been compromised because it complied 
with regulations which meant that it didnt store or record debit card numbers. It said it had 
already offered all of its customers twelve-month complimentary membership for a credit 
reporting company which provided services including fraud reporting, credit alerts and web 
monitoring. It didnt agree to do anything further.
Mr C wasnt satisfied. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. He initially thought that 118 118 Money should do more to resolve the complaint. 
He thought it was likely that the phishing calls Mr C had received were because of what had 
happened. 118 118 Money didnt agree. It provided further evidence to say it could prove 
that call recordings with Mr C werent included in the data thatd been compromised.
After considering the new information thatd been provided, our investigator changed his 
view. He was persuaded, on the basis of the new information, that the phishing calls werent 
caused by any data thatd been compromised by 118 118 Money. So, he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that a screenshot of a search of a database or spreadsheet didnt 
confirm anything without seeing the data or being able to search it for himself. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that as a result of unauthorised access to 118 118 Moneys systems 
certain personal data was compromised. It has already reported that matter to the relevant 
regulatory bodies including the ICO. And, it engaged cyber experts to investigate what 
happened. Those experts have reported to 118 118 Money, and they say theyve identified 
all of the data that was potentially compromised. That data included telephone call 
recordings.
Mr C had made telephone calls to 118 118 Money in the period prior to when 118 118 
Money said the data compromise had happened. So, I can understand that he was 
concerned when he received the correspondence from 118 118 Money in March 2020. And, 
his concerns were heightened when he says he started to get phishing calls. He thought 
these must be linked to what had happened at 118 118 Money. I can see why he wouldve 
felt that way. And, it is worrying when a consumer starts to receive phishing calls especially 
when hes been told about a recent data compromise.
When considering Mr Cs complaint, Ive thought about whether there is evidence to support 
the link hes made between the phishing calls and the letter he received from 118 118 
Money.
Our service has been provided with information about the outcome of the investigations 
carried out by the cyber experts 118 118 Money engaged. The experts were able to identify 
all of the data that was potentially compromised. They have taken that data and stored it 
securely in a folder. The folder does not contain any personally identifiable data, but it does 
include phone numbers that were impacted. 
118 118 Moneys experts have searched this folder to see if Mr Cs telephone number is 
contained in it. It has confirmed that his telephone number is not in the folder and it says this 
means no telephone recordings between Mr C and 118 118 Money were compromised. 
Mr C says that unless the database is independently searched, it is not enough to rely on 
what 118 118 Money has said. Ive thought about what hes said here. 
118 118 Money has told us about how its approached the collation of the data that was 
compromised, based on its engagement of cyber security experts. And, its told us it 
searched that database for Mr Cs telephone number  but it couldnt find any record of his 
telephone number. Our investigator asked it to produce a screen shot showing the negative 
result. And, its done that. In these circumstances, I dont think its necessary for 118 118 
Money to give our service access to its systems to confirm the negative result. And, on 
balance, Im satisfied that the evidence provided is enough to show that telephone 
recordings with Mr C werent included in the data that was compromised.
So, whilst I accept what Mr C has told us about phishing calls he received, Im not 
persuaded, on balance, that these phishing calls were caused by the unauthorised access to 
118 118 Moneys systems.
Mr C hasnt told us that he suffered any financial loss as a result of fraud. And, although he 
wouldve been distressed and inconvenienced by phishing calls, as Ive said above, I dont 
think these calls were caused by what happened at 118 118 Money.
Ive also thought about the action 118 118 Money took after it became aware of the data 
compromise. Ive read the letter it sent to him. It alerted Mr C to what had happened and the 
action it was taking to deal with the situation. It also warned him to be aware that fraudsters may claim to be from 118 118 Money and attempt to contact him by phone or email (known 
as phishing). It told him not to give financial information to anyone contacting him in this way.
So, he knew he needed to be alert to the possibility that unauthorised persons may have his 
personal data. And, he knew not to give financial information to anyone who purported to be 
from 118 118 Money. 
118 118 Money also offered Mr C free membership of a credit reporting company product for 
a twelve-month period. This company offered a range of services designed to provide 
support and to alert him to any potential fraudulent activity using his details. He didnt avail of 
that offer because he says he already had signed up for the service himself. That was his 
choice. And, having considered everything here, Im satisfied 118 118 Money has acted 
fairly and reasonably. I dont expect it to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman