DRN-4414730
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the interest rate charged on their mortgage with Mortgage 
Agency Services Number Five Limited (MAS5). They say that the standard variable rate has 
been unfairly increased and was too high, and that in any case MAS5 should have offered 
them a new fixed interest rate.
Summary of my final decision
Ill begin by summarising my conclusions before setting out my findings, and the reasons for 
them, in more detail below.
1. This complaint is about the interest rate Mr and Mrs B paid on their mortgage after 
the initial fixed rate period came to an end.
2. Since July 2009, Mr and Mrs B have been charged interest at MAS5s standard 
variable rate (SVR). They complain that the SVR was too high, that changes MAS5 
made to it were unfair, and that it was not fair they were not offered an alternative 
fixed rate by MAS5 or its parent company. 
3. MAS5 says that the SVR was properly charged in line with the mortgage offer and 
terms and conditions. It says that any changes it made to the SVR over time were 
made in line with its contractual powers to vary the SVR and those changes were 
justified at the time. It says it doesnt offer new interest rates to existing customers. It 
doesnt agree Mr and Mrs B were treated unfairly.
4. Because of the time limits which apply to complaints made to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, my jurisdiction to consider this complaint is limited.
5. In particular, I can only consider the fairness of the interest rate Mr and Mrs B paid 
from 8 November 2016 onwards. But in doing so, it is appropriate to take into 
account all the circumstances of the complaint  which includes decisions MAS5 took 
before 8 November 2016 to the extent that they may have contributed to the interest 
rate charged from 8 November 2016 onwards.
6. MAS5 has invited me to decline to consider this complaint, on the basis that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service has considered similar complaints in the past. But I 
dont think thats appropriate, since Mr and Mrs B have not themselves complained to 
us about this before. So we have not previously considered their complaint.
7. For reasons I explain in more detail below, I have upheld part of the complaint about 
the interest rate and I require MAS5 to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation in respect of 
the part I have upheld  but only to the extent that they have suffered any loss. 
Having considered all the evidence, argument and relevant considerations, my 
findings in summary are that:
(i) MAS5 was not required to offer Mr and Mrs B a new interest rate on their 
mortgage, and it did not act unfairly when it did not do so. MAS5 did not offer 
fixed interest rates to existing customers at the end of an initial preferential 
rate period and all customers reverted to the SVR. It is not relevant that other 
lenders  including in the same group as MAS5  do offer rates to existing 
customers. That includes other lenders in the same group as MAS5, since 
they are separate corporate entities. It is therefore fair that Mr and Mrs B 
remained on the SVR after June 2009.
(ii) The increases MAS5 made to the SVR between 2009 and 2012 are out of 
time as complaints in their own right, but relevant as part of all the 
circumstances contributing to the interest rate it charged to Mr and Mrs B 
from 8 November 2016, and whether that interest rate was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
(iii) MAS5 increased the SVR between 2009 and 2012 relying on the contractual 
right to change the SVR to reflect changes in the cost of the funds it used in 
funding its mortgage lending business.
(iv) I am not persuaded that there were changes in the cost of the funds MAS5 
used in funding its mortgage lending business at the relevant times  the 
evidence doesnt show that there were changes in the overall costs MAS5 
was liable itself to pay for the funds that it used. 
(v) To the extent that the wider banking group of which MAS5 was a part did 
experience changes in cost of funds, the group structured itself in such a way 
that MAS5 did not itself incur additional interest or similar charges. Under the 
contract, I consider those changes to the wider groups cost of funds are not 
directly relevant to the costs of funding MAS5s mortgage lending business. 
(vi) As a result, the changes to the SVR MAS5 made between 2009 and 2012  
which collectively added 2.76% to the SVR  were not made for reasons 
permitted by the contract. 
(vii) However, in determining whether the interest rate charged to Mr and Mrs B 
from 8 November 2016 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, the 
earlier changes to the SVR and their contractual effect are only one of the 
factors to be taken into account. I am required to take into account relevant 
law  including the law of contract  but that alone isnt determinative of the 
complaint as its necessary for me to consider the wider circumstances in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the period I can consider.
(viii) Other relevant factors may include the broader circumstances in which MAS5 
operated including the nature of its lending business and whether there might 
have been other valid reasons for varying the interest rate, Mr and Mrs Bs 
own circumstances, the passage of time  both between the individual 
variations and 8 November 2016, and between the individual variations and 
now  and the circumstances in which the loan moved from the previous 
owner to MAS5.
(ix) The effect of the increase to the SVR in 2009 was to return the SVR to normal 
parameters following a period in which it had been set at an artificially low 
level as a consequence of an agreement between MAS5 and the original 
owner of this mortgage (entered into before the impact of the global financial 
crisis could have been foreseen). Mr and Mrs B were not party to this 
agreement and had no rights under it, but they benefitted from it in that the 
interest rate to which they reverted from 1 July 2009 was lower than it would otherwise have been during the term of the agreement. When the agreement 
with the previous lender came to an end, MAS5 increased the SVR to broadly 
reflect what it would have been but for that agreement, reflecting the SVRs 
charged by other similar lenders in the group.  
(x) It would not be fair and reasonable to conclude that MAS5 should reduce the 
interest rate charged to Mr and Mrs B from 8 November 2016 as if none of the 
increases had taken place; that is, to require that it should be reduced by 
2.76%. I am satisfied that in the circumstances this would amount to an 
unfairly high amount of compensation, and would require MAS5 to put 
Mr and Mrs B back in a better position than they might have been able to 
expect based on the operation of the mortgage terms and conditions alone 
(without the distorting effect of the separate agreement between MAS5 and 
the previous lender). I am satisfied that for the purposes of calculating 
redress, MAS5 should not reduce the interest rate charged after 8 November 
2016 to reflect the total 1.51% increase in 2009. 
(xi) Similar considerations dont apply to the ongoing impact from 8 November 
2016 of the later increases, which took place in 2011 and 2012. Those 
increases were significantly closer in time to the period from 8 November 
2016, and more likely to have had a direct impact on it going forward. The 
agreement with the previous lender was no longer a factor. For the purposes 
of calculating redress, I am satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to direct that 
MAS5 should reduce the interest rate charged to Mr and Mrs B from 
8 November 2016 as if the 2011 and 2012 increases had not happened; that 
is, to require the interest rate charged from 8 November 2016 to be reduced 
by 1.25%. I am satisfied this would not result in an interest rate that was 
unfairly low taking into account MAS5s broader position in the market.
8. To put things right, MAS5 should in principle rework Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage as 
if the interest rate it had charged them from 8 November 2016 was 1.25% less 
than it actually was. And it should pay Mr and Mrs B £750 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they suffered.
9. However, in this particular case, MAS5 wrote off a substantial part of 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance when it agreed to allow them to sell their 
property and redeem their mortgage with a shortfall in 2020. It is fair and 
reasonable to take that concession into account, and so MAS5 should only pay 
Mr and Mrs B compensation if, and only to the extent that, it exceeds the sum 
MAS5 has already written off.
10. In practice, given the concession MAS5 has already made, this is likely to mean 
that no further payment is due to Mr and Mrs B.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage in 2007 with another lender, GMAC-RFC. The loan 
was later transferred to MAS5, and has been with MAS5 ever since.
Since 2009 Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage has been on MAS5s standard variable rate (SVR). 
This complaint, as set out in Mr Bs detailed letter to us, has three elements:
The SVR is too high  in absolute terms, and specifically in comparison with the SVR 
charged by another business in the same group as MAS5, The Co-operative Bank 
plc. Having to pay such a high rate has caused them great stress and contributed to their divorce and meant they couldnt afford the upkeep of the property, contributing 
to it being in negative equity.
Changes that MAS5 made to the SVR, particularly in the years between 2009 and 
2012, were unfair  especially where those changes were made in the absence of 
changes to the Bank of England base rate.
Mr and Mrs B havent been able to access a new interest rate product, such as the 
sort of fixed rate other lenders (including The Co-operative Bank plc) offer to their 
customers, which would take them off the SVR and significantly reduce the interest 
rate applicable to their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was initially on a fixed rate of 6.39%, expiring on 30 June 2009, 
after which the offer said it would revert to the GMAC-RFC SVR. So they were on the SVR 
from 1 July 2009. Mr and Mrs B borrowed around £166,000, against a property value of 
£185,000, on interest only terms.
Mr and Mrs B say they struggled to maintain the mortgage over the years. This is largely 
because of their personal circumstances  their income reduced, and they are now 
separated and living apart. In recent years they were reliant on family support to meet the 
mortgage payments. In addition, the property reduced in value and was in negative equity. 
Mr and Mrs B say this was contributed to by the high interest rate  which meant they 
couldnt afford to maintain the property. 
As a result of these factors, and problems with their wider credit history, they were not able 
to move to another lender and considered themselves trapped with MAS5.
In 2020, MAS5 agreed that the property could be sold, and agreed to write off the shortfall 
from the sale, so Mr and Mrs B have sold the property and the mortgage has now ceased to 
exist.
Mr and Mrs B previously complained about their interest rate to MAS5 in 2016. That 
complaint appears to have been in more general terms, on the basis that they were unhappy 
with the interest rate they were paying at the time and were unable to change lender. MAS5 
sent a final response letter on 7 November 2016 saying that it didnt uphold their complaint 
because the interest rate had operated in accordance with the mortgage terms and 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs B did not refer their complaint to us until October 2018. It doesnt appear that 
they contacted MAS5 again in the meantime. Their October 2018 complaint form was 
accompanied by the November 2016 final response. Mr and Mrs B added to their complaint 
in February 2019.
I have previously issued a jurisdiction decision, in which I found: 
The Financial Ombudsman Service could not consider a freestanding complaint 
about the decisions to increase the SVR between 2009 and 2012, because that 
complaint is out of time, and was out of time when first raised in late 2016.
The Financial Ombudsman Service could consider a complaint about the amount and 
fairness of the interest Mr and Mrs B were charged, but only from 8 November 2016 
onwards  the complaint about charges before that date being out of time (because 
Mr and Mrs B did not refer it to us within six months of the 7 November 2016 final 
response letter as required). Although this part of the complaint is expressed in more 
detailed terms, it is fundamentally the same complaint they made in 2016.The Financial Ombudsman Service could consider the complaint about whether it 
was fair that MAS5 kept Mr and Mrs B on the SVR and did not offer them new lower 
fixed interest rates, but only from February 2013 onwards  matters before that being 
out of time. This part of the complaint is covered by the six year / three year rule 
rather than the requirement to complain to us within six months of a final response, 
as it was not part of the 2016 complaint.
In respect of the second part of the complaint, the fairness of interest charged from 
November 2016 onwards, I said that we could consider the history of the SVR, including 
decisions MAS5 had made before that date, in deciding the fairness of what it had charged 
since that date. Thats because the fairness of charges made that are in time as complaints 
in their own right depends, in part, on what happened before November 2016. And while 
events before that date are out of time to be considered as complaints in their own right, they 
might nevertheless need to be taken into account as part of all the circumstances of the 
case in determining the fairness of the elements of the complaint I can consider.
Our consideration of the merits of this complaint has been delayed following a challenge 
MAS5 brought in the Hight Court to the correctness of that approach to our jurisdiction. After 
the court found that this is in principle a legitimate approach to take to the consideration of 
fairness in cases such as this, I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the 
merits of that part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint which Id previously said was in time.
Background to the mortgage and the complaint
The history of the mortgage and SVR
Mr and Mrs B took their mortgage out with another lender, GMAC-RFC Limited, on interest 
only terms with an initial fixed rate of 6.39%. At the end of the initial rate, the mortgage offer 
said the loan would revert to the GMAC-RFC standard variable rate, which at the time they 
took the mortgage out was 7.49%.
Their fixed rate expired on 30 June 2009, by which time GMAC had transferred the 
mortgage to MAS5 (at the time a subsidiary firm of and owned by the Britannia Building 
Society). MAS5 therefore took over from GMAC as the regulated firm which owned 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage and acted as their mortgage lender.
MAS5 is a closed book lender  it is a vehicle for holding loans originated elsewhere and 
later bought up by the then Britannia Building Society group of firms. Following the merger of 
Britannia and The Co-operative Bank plc, MAS5 continued as a subsidiary firm within the 
wider Co-operative Bank group. Though part of the Britannia and then Co-op groups, it was 
at the time of the transfer and remains to this day a separate firm and regulated entity in its 
own right.
MAS5 manages its existing portfolio of loans but has never been an active lender seeking 
customers in its own right on the open market. And while it allows customers to make 
changes to existing mortgages, these do not include changing the interest rate  MAS5 has 
no fixed or other preferential rates available to any customers. All customers whose initial 
rates expire then remain on their contractual reversion rate (in the case of Mr and Mrs B, the 
SVR) unless and until they pay their mortgage off or re-mortgage away to a different lender.
Mr and Mrs B did not do this until they sold their property and repaid the mortgage (with a 
shortfall) in 2020, so they remained on the SVR between 2009 and 2020.
On 1 July 2009, Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage reverted to the SVR. By this time, since the 
mortgage was now owned by MAS5, references in the offer and terms and conditions of the mortgage were to be read as being the MAS5 SVR (i.e. the SVR set by MAS5) rather than 
the GMAC SVR.
MAS5 had previously given notice to its customers that it was increasing the SVR, and the 
increase took effect from the same date, 1 July 2009, that Mr and Mrs B reverted to the 
SVR.
In August 2009 Britannia merged with The Co-operative Bank plc and, as a subsidiary of 
Britannia, MAS5 became part of the wider Co-op group of companies. The group comprised 
the merged Co-op/Britannia entity (which took the legal name of The Co-operative Bank plc, 
but traded under both the Co-op and Britannia brands), as well as a number of subsidiary 
companies, several of which were, like MAS5, vehicles for holding books of bought-in 
mortgages.
Thereafter there were three further increases to the SVR in October 2009, March 2011 and 
May 2012. All four of these increases happened at a time when the Bank of England base 
rate was static at 0.5% (where it had been since March 2009).
There was then no change to the MAS5 SVR until 2016, at which point further changes took 
place in line with changes to Bank of England base rate.
The mortgage was redeemed on 9 June 2020, with MAS5 agreeing a shortfall sale and 
writing off a shortfall debt of £27,434.20.
The mortgage terms and conditions
Although now owned by MAS5, the mortgage continued to be governed by the GMAC terms 
and conditions.
The mortgage offer says the interest rate will be 
A fixed rate of 6.39% until 30 June 2009
From the 01 July 2009 the rate that will apply is GMAC-RFC Ltd standard variable 
rate, currently 7.49%, for the remaining term of the mortgage.
It also says that the mortgage is subject to the terms of the offer, and to the conditions set 
out in the terms and condition booklet.
Condition 3.1 of the terms and conditions says:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the 
following reasons:
(a) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar 
body.
There are other related terms, dealing with matters such as notice of changes and the time 
they come into force, which are not relevant to this complaint.
Certain words have specified meanings in the terms and conditions:
we, us and our refers to GMAC-RFC Limited and anyone who at any time in the 
future is entitled to exercise our rights under the mortgage including:
(a) any transferee;
(b) anyone who is entitled to exercise our rights because of an amalgamation or 
take over; and
(c) anyone who is entitled to exercise our rights because of a reorganization of 
our group.
Interest rate means the rate or rates of interest shown in the offer which we charge 
on the amount owed. The rate or rates of interest may change under the conditions 
of section 3.
Standard variable rate means our standard variable rate of interest which can be 
changed by us at any time before and after completion under condition 3 of section 3. 
If we enter into a transfer, the standard variable rate will be set by or on behalf of the 
transferee. The transferee can set the standard variable rate independently of any 
rate set by GMAC-RFC Limited or any other transferee.
Transfer includes a mortgage agreement to sell, legal or equitable assignment, 
transfer, charge, or other disposition of our rights under the mortgage.
Transferee means anyone who is entitled to exercise any of our rights under the 
mortgage as a result of a transfer by us.
In this case, there was a transfer to MAS5, which therefore became the transferee and 
gained the power to set the standard variable rate, subject to the terms of condition 3.1.
There are other related terms, dealing with matters such as notice of changes and the time 
they come into force which are not relevant to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint
Ive said above that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is in three parts  the increases to the SVR 
from 2009 to 2012, the fairness of the interest they were charged each month, and the lack 
of availability of new fixed rates.
Mr B, who has conducted this case throughout, says:
He has analysed the terms and conditions, and understands that the SVR can only 
be increased in line with condition 3.1.
Between 2009 and 2012, there were no changes in Bank of England base rate, so 
3.1(a) doesnt apply.There were no relevant decisions from the courts, regulator or ombudsman requiring 
MAS5 to increase its SVR, so 3.1(d) and (e) dont apply.
At a time when other lenders were reducing their rates, increases in SVR dont reflect 
what other lenders were doing, so 3.1(c) doesnt apply.
That leaves 3.1(b)  to reflect changes in cost of funds. In this context, Mr B noted 
that:
oAccording to its annual accounts, MAS5 has no employees.
oThe accounts also say that interest rate risk arises on the mortgage portfolio 
which contains both fixed and variable loans. The funding for these is variable 
based on LIBOR. Mr B accepts that his mortgage interest rate is variable and 
not directly linked to LIBOR. But he says that this shows that there is an 
indirect linkage in that MAS5s cost of funds is based on LIBOR  which was 
at record low levels between 2009 and 2012 when the SVR was being 
increased.
oAt the time of the increases, MAS5 was not operating a mortgage lending 
business  it was a closed book lender. 
oTherefore, Mr B does not believe that the increases to the SVR can be 
justified or regarded as being in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs B consider that a fair rate would be 2% above Bank of England base rate 
from time to time and want their mortgage to be re-calculated on that basis. They 
also want compensation for the difficulties, distress and inconvenience theyve faced 
while being (as they see it) over-charged for their mortgage.
As part of the Co-op group, it is not fair that the MAS5 SVR was 6% at a time when 
The Co-operative Bank plc SVR was 4.49% and the average SVR across the 
industry was also below 5%.
Many customers of MAS5, including Mr and Mrs B, were mortgage prisoners 
trapped with MAS5 and unable to go elsewhere. MAS5 should explain what 
proportion of its borrowers are mortgage prisoners  Mr and Mrs B believe that by 
keeping the SVR high, MAS5 exploited borrowers like them with no other options. 
The regulator has said that taking advantage of trapped borrowers in this way is likely 
to be unfair.
Mr and Mrs B should have been given access to a new lower rate with The 
Co-operative Bank plc if not with MAS5. Keeping them separate from The 
Co-operative Bank plc and not allowing them to access The Co-operative Bank plcs 
mortgage rates is unfair treatment.
In a separate complaint brought by a different complainant, a Financial Ombudsman 
Service investigator had concluded that these increases to the SVR were not fair 
because MAS5 had not shown that its costs of funding had increased. Therefore the 
same should apply in this case.MAS5s response
MAS5 provided detailed evidence and argument in support of its position. In summary, it 
said:
As the Financial Ombudsman Service has considered the increases in SVR before in 
other cases which were not upheld, we should either dismiss this complaint on the 
basis that it has already been considered, or to ensure consistency should not uphold 
this complaint either.
The term allowing MAS5 to vary the SVR is a fair term within the meaning of the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) because: 
oTerms like this are standard in mortgage contracts across the industry.
oThe FCA in its guidance1 recognises the legitimacy of such terms. In 
particular, the guidance says 
Unilateral variation terms are common, especially in long term 
contracts. They have the benefit of allowing the contract to be 
changed over time and allow firms to vary interest rates to reflect 
changes in circumstances.
A term allowing changes based on costs of funding is likely to be valid, 
since such costs are outside the firms control but likely to impact the 
costs of providing the product and the term allows firms to manage 
risk. Therefore a fairly drafted variation term is likely to be appropriate.
The Financial Ombudsman Service has previously found the term 
MAS5 relied on in this case to be a fair term.
MAS5 relied on condition 3.1 (b)  to reflect a change in cost of funds  to increase 
the SVR in 2009, 2011 and 2012.
When MAS5 took over its mortgages from GMAC in 2007, there was a restrictive 
covenant in place limiting the SVR MAS5 could charge to 2% above base rate. This 
was not a feature of individual mortgage contracts (and so not in Mr and Mrs Bs 
terms and conditions) but was an agreement in place between MAS5 and GMAC.
As a result, when base rate fell to 0.5% between 2007 and early 2009, the MAS5 
SVR also fell to keep within the 2% cap.
In 2009, the restrictive covenant came to an end. By that point, changes in the 
mortgage funding markets meant that the costs of running a mortgage business had 
not fallen in the same way and so the SVR no longer related to the costs of funding 
MAS5s business.
At the same time, again because of the cap, the MAS5 SVR had fallen to a much 
lower level compared to Britannia and the rest of the group, and compared to the 
wider mortgage market.
1 Fairness of variation terms in financial services consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, FG18/7, Financial Conduct Authority, 2018, available at 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/fg18-07.pdf Following the end of the restrictive covenant, therefore, a decision was taken to 
increase the SVR. To assist customers by not making the increase in one go, it was 
spread over two raises in July and October 2009.
This was necessary and justified as the increase reflected the increased cost of 
funds MAS5 had been exposed to since the start of the financial crisis relative to the 
level of its SVR before the increase.
It is not correct to say that MAS5 is not engaged in a mortgage lending business. It 
might not be lending to new customers. But that is only one part of running a 
mortgage lending business; lending encompasses the life of a mortgage from when 
the money is first paid out to when it is fully repaid at the end of the term. MAS5 
managed its existing mortgage portfolio including dealing with customers.
MAS5s mortgage lending was funded through a number of methods, standard to the 
mortgage industry. Those funding streams are shorter term than the mortgages they 
fund, and have to be renewed before the customer debts they finance are repaid. For 
both those reasons  managing its existing portfolio and customers, and refinancing 
its funding streams while mortgage debts remain outstanding  MAS5 is engaged in 
a mortgage lending business even though it does not offer new loans to new 
customers.
MAS5 mortgages are not managed separately, or financed separately, from other 
loans held by Britannia and then the Co-op group. The mortgage lending business, 
and the funding of it, are managed at a group level rather than individually within 
subsidiary firms (such as MAS5). Where the cost of funds increases at group level, 
that means the cost of funds of the MAS5 part of the business also increases and 
that justifies the increases to the SVR proportionate to those increases in costs of 
funds. It is not possible to separate out MAS5s cost of funds since the group did not 
manage its business in that way. It is therefore necessary, and reasonable, to 
consider costs at group level to determine whether variations to the SVR were 
justified.
MAS5 recently commissioned a report from a third party analysing funding costs over 
the period in question. It says this shows that in 2009:
oThe restrictive covenant meant that the MAS5 SVR was set at too low a level 
compared to cost of funds.
oAt the same time, the impact of the global financial crisis was further 
impacting cost of funds. Cost of funds was not linked to, and increasingly 
divorced from, base rate.
oCompetitor lenders with similar borrower profiles had increased their SVRs, or 
reduced them more slowly ending at a higher level than MAS5. This shows 
that cost of funds was impacting the industry more generally and that MAS 
was an outlier while the restrictive covenant was in place.
oOnce the restrictive covenant was removed, MAS5 was able to increase its 
SVR to a level that better reflected cost of funds at that time, and that was 
more in line with the SVR charged on similar loan books within the group.
oThe SVR was therefore increased to reflect changes in costs of funds which 
had already occurred, and which it was reasonably expected would continue. oBut to balance that with the interests of customers and the obligations of 
fairness, the increase would only take the SVR to parity with the SVR of other 
bought in loans, just above the Britannia SVR, and would be implemented in 
two stages. The second stage increase was reviewed again before it was 
implemented and was still justified.
And MAS5 says the analysis shows that, in 2011: 
oAfter the 2009 SVR increases, the cost of funds had continued to increase 
over 2010 and 2011. Costs were higher in comparison with base rate and 
LIBOR than previously. 
oAgain, cost of funds was considered at group level rather than firm level. 
oThe impact of increasing cost of funds was such that a further increase in 
SVR was needed to maintain the groups margin and prudential position.
oA decision was taken to apply a greater increase to the SVR of acquired sub- 
prime mortgage books (such as MAS5) than to prime mortgages originated 
by Britannia / The Co-op, to reflect the greater cost of re-financing these 
mortgages associated with their higher credit risk, and to reflect the costs 
associated with increased defaults on these loans since the financial crisis.
oA decision was therefore made to apply an increase to the SVR of those parts 
of the group, including MAS5, which had those characteristics.
In 2012, MAS5 says, the analysis shows:
oCost of funds was again assessed at group level as the group did not fund its 
mortgages at firm level.
oThe cost of refinancing expiring funding streams had significantly increased, 
and some options for refinancing were no longer available.
oIncreased costs overall meant increased costs for that part of the business 
within MAS5.
oThe increase to the SVR was justified by and proportionate to those 
increased costs.
Summary of my provisional decision
In summary I said:
1. Because of the time limits which apply to complaints made to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, my jurisdiction to consider this complaint is limited. 
2. In particular, I can only consider the fairness of the interest rate Mr and Mrs B paid 
from 8 November 2016 onwards. But in doing so, it is appropriate to take into 
account all the circumstances of the complaint  which includes decisions MAS5 took 
before 8 November 2016 to the extent that they may have contributed to the interest 
rate charged from 8 November 2016 onwards.
3. MAS5 has invited me to decline to consider this complaint, on the basis that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service has considered similar complaints in the past. But I dont think thats appropriate, since Mr and Mrs B have not themselves complained to 
us about this before. So we have not previously considered their complaint. 
4. I was minded to uphold part of the complaint and to require MAS5 to pay 
Mr and Mrs B compensation  though only if, and to the extent that, it exceeded the 
sum written off when Mr and Mrs B ended their mortgage with a shortfall. In 
summary, having considered the evidence and arguments submitted so far, I was 
minded to conclude that:
MAS5 was not required to offer Mr and Mrs B a new fixed interest rate on 
their mortgage, and so it did not act unfairly when it did not do so. MAS5 did 
not offer fixed interest rate products and all its customers paid the SVR after 
their initial fixed rate periods came to an end. It is not relevant that other 
lenders, including other lenders in the same group of companies as MAS5, 
may offer new fixed rates to existing customers. It is therefore fair that 
Mr and Mrs B remained on the SVR from July 2009.
The increases MAS5 made to the SVR in 2009, 2011 and 2012 were not 
made for reasons permitted by the mortgage terms and conditions.
But it was fair and reasonable for MAS5 to charge an interest rate from 
8 November 2016 that reflected the 2009 variations. This is because the 
effect of the increases in 2009 was to return the SVR to normal parameters 
following a period in which it had been set at an artificially low level as a 
consequence of an agreement between MAS5 and the original owner of the 
mortgage.
It was, however, not fair and reasonable for MAS5 to charge an SVR from 
8 November 2016 that reflected the 2011 and 2012 variations. This is 
because I was not persuaded on the evidence available to me that MAS5 has 
shown that its cost of funds increased so as to permit these variations under 
the terms and conditions.
MAS5 has acted fairly in offering Mr and Mrs B forbearance during their 
financial difficulties, including allowing them to sell their property despite 
negative equity and agreeing to write off a substantial shortfall. Its fair that 
the sum written off, which Mr and Mrs B would otherwise owe, be accounted 
for in any redress.
5. To put things right, I said MAS5 should re-calculate the closing balance on 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance as if MAS5 had charged interest at a rate 1.25% 
lower than it actually did from 8 November 2016 until redemption, leaving the 
payments Mr and Mrs B made unchanged. To the extent the difference between the 
original and the revised redemption figures, plus £750 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, exceeds the shortfall it wrote off it should pay the amount above the 
shortfall to Mr and Mrs B.
The responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision, and neither accepted my provisional 
conclusions.
MAS5 said:
My findings on the 2009, 2011 and 2012 variations meant that I was assessing out of time complaints, in a way not permitted by our rules, by the jurisdiction decision in 
this case or by the recent High Court judgment2.
In any case, given I had previously decided the underlying issue in another complaint 
in 2014, it was not appropriate to revisit the issues now.
I had interpreted clause 3.1 (b) of the terms and conditions too narrowly, and that 
changes to funding costs for the wider group which impact the cost of funds MAS5 
uses in its mortgage lending business can justify varying the SVR.
I had placed too much reliance on MAS5s accounts, which cannot be used to assess 
changes in its costs of funds. And in doing so, I had not given MAS5 the opportunity 
to comment on or explain the content of the accounts prior to reaching my findings. 
I had not taken sufficient account of other evidence, and had given insufficient weight 
to the lack of availability of evidence because of passage of time.
The MAS5 mortgage book presents a higher credit risk compared to the wider 
market, and it would have been  and is  fair and reasonable for MAS5 to take this 
into account too in setting the SVR.
Even if I were to uphold the complaint, my proposed remedy is not fair and 
reasonable. It has the effect of reducing the SVR to the level of the average SVR in 
the market  but MAS5s book is a higher risk book and is priced to reflect that risk.
Its also relevant to note that MAS5 has not passed on the recent Bank of England 
base rate rises, since December 2021, in full. As a result, the difference between the 
SVR and base rate has reduced to 3.88% over that period.
Mr and Mrs B said:
They didnt agree that redress should be limited to 2016 onwards  or that it should 
be offset against the amount written off when the mortgage was repaid.
MAS5 would have bought the mortgages  including theirs  at less than full value 
taking into account factors including risk projection. This is standard practice in the 
sale of mortgage books and is a relevant factor here.
That means that MAS5 bought Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage for less than it was worth. 
And it follows that in writing off the shortfall when they sold the property, MAS5 was 
not taking a loss  it was merely reducing the profit it made on their mortgage. 
When MAS5 offered to allow the shortfall sale, the agreement not to enforce the 
shortfall was not made conditional or subject to any claw-back arrangement.
Mr and Mrs B should have continued to have the protection of the restrictive 
covenant  it was designed to protect the interests of GMACs customers after the 
transfer but MAS5 ignored or disregarded it and removed it without informing its 
customers. This is a breach of Principle 6.
It is wrong to call the effect of the covenant a windfall. The mortgage operated in 
line with the covenant, and then should have operated in line with the terms and 
2Mortgage Agency Service Number Five Ltd, R (On the Application Of) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service Ltd [2022] EWHC 1979 (Admin) conditions. If there was no contractual reason to raise the SVR, it should not have 
been increased. Rather, it is MAS5 which has enjoyed a windfall by overcharging 
since 2009.
MAS5 charged Mr and Mrs B arrears fees, late payment fees and other fees and 
charges. These should also be refunded. 
MAS5s conduct of this case and others shows that it has not acted in good faith, and 
that is also a relevant factor to take into account.
Mr and Mrs B did not complain to us before 2019  including when they received 
their final response in 2016  because they had no reason to know MAS5 had not 
acted in line with the contract and had no way of knowing it had misled them about 
that.
Mr and Mrs B say that MAS5 deliberately broke the terms of the contract and then 
lied about it to its customers to conceal what it had done  and that amounts to 
exceptional circumstances which explain why they couldnt have complained sooner.
Allowing the time limit decision to stand would reward MAS5s dishonest behaviour.
The overall impact of MAS5s actions on Mr and Mrs B and their wider family was 
substantial. That cant truly be compensated for. But in line with our guidelines on 
distress and inconvenience, Mr and Mrs B say a fair sum would be £5,000 not £750.
Is it appropriate for me to consider this complaint?
Time limits
Prior to my provisional decision on the merits of this complaint, I issued a jurisdiction 
decision in which I explained that we could only consider the fairness of the interest rate 
charged since 8 November 2016. Thats because Mr and Mrs B had previously complained 
about the same thing, received a final response dated 7 November 2016, and hadnt referred 
their complaint to us within the required six months. That is the basis on which I approached 
my provisional decision.
As I said in my jurisdiction decision, and as I reiterated in my provisional decision, in 
considering the fairness of interest charged from 8 November 2016, it is necessary to 
consider all the circumstances of the case. This includes the history of the SVR up to that 
point  since past variations, while they are out of time as matters to be complained about in 
their own right, are relevant context for what came later. MAS5 did not set the SVR from 
scratch on 8 November 2016, it continued to charge the SVR as it was prior to that date. And 
the reason it was at that level was, in part, because of the cumulative effect of the previous 
variations. It follows that if, for some reason, MAS5 was not entitled to have made one or 
more of those previous variations, the SVR may have been lower on 8 November 2016 and 
subsequently than it in fact was. And that is a relevant consideration in thinking about 
whether it may not be fair and reasonable to charge interest which depends, in part, on that 
previous variation. 
I remain satisfied, therefore, that it is appropriate for me to consider the previous variations  
including the increases between 2009 and 2012  as part of all the circumstances of whether 
interest was fairly and reasonably charged from 8 November 2016.I dont agree with MAS5 that this approach  either in general, or in the specific way I went 
about it in my provisional decision  is incompatible with the High Courts decision. The 
judge found that it was right to say that those earlier variations were out of time insofar as 
they were complaints in their own right. But that nevertheless, 
the definition of a complaint is not so strictly confined to events The ombudsman 
accepts that no complaint can be made about changes made before 31 October 
2012. It is in my judgment wrong to say that it is Wednesbury unreasonable, or 
otherwise unlawful, for her to consider, when deciding what is, in [her] opinion fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case that the prevailing rate itself 
should be examined, from the outset, and also that the prior history should be 
investigated to see what impact, if any, it had on the rates applied on and after 
31 October 2012.
(The judgment concerned a complaint where the applicable time limit was 31 October 2012 
rather than 8 November 2016. But that doesnt affect the general principle.)
MAS5 quotes the judge saying
The relevance of the rate prevailing and charged on and after 31 October 2012 is 
obvious. It is a little harder to see what assistance the ombudsman will gain from 
looking at the rate setting as far back as 2008.
But it does not quote the rest of that paragraph:
 The relevance of the rate prevailing and charged on and after 31 October 2012 is 
obvious. It is a little harder to see what assistance the ombudsman will gain from 
looking at the rate setting as far back as 2008, but what she makes of that remains to 
be seen. For example, she might find it instructive to learn what the pattern of rate 
setting is, how closely it aligns to the cost of funds, or other prevailing rates, or how 
quickly it adjusts to changes in circumstances, and she might find a longer history 
useful in that respect. I do not suggest that she will, or should; nor do I limit her room 
for manoeuvre. All I have to decide is whether the course she proposes in her final 
decision, including those passages affirmed and repeated from her provisional 
decision, as explained in her witness statement, demonstrate an irrational, unlawful 
or otherwise judicially reviewable error. I have concluded that they do not.
Im therefore satisfied that the approach I took in my provisional decision is consistent with 
the decision of the High Court. In order to consider the fairness of interest charged since 
8 November 2016, it was necessary  among other things  to consider the impact of 
variations prior to that date including how closely it aligns to cost of funds, and including 
examining the prior history to see what impact, if any, it had on the rates applied after that 
date. The Judge was satisfied that such an approach would not obviously be unlawful in 
principle, and is a legitimate matter for the ombudsmans discretion in considering what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In addition, given that I am required to take into account relevant law, I am satisfied that it is 
necessary for me to consider certain matters that pre-date 8 November 2016  such as 
(i) the fact that the parties entered into a contract
(ii) the terms of that contract
(iii) legal issues around the fairness of those terms(iv) the extent to which variations to the prevailing interest rate were for reasons allowed 
by those terms.
As I explain further below, (iii) and (iv) are in my view relevant to whether as a matter of law 
the interest MAS5 charged Mr and Mrs B from 8 November 2016 was effective as opposed 
to a demand for payment with no legal basis. 
Ultimately, what I have to decide is whether it was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for MAS5 to charge Mr and Mrs B the interest that it charged during the 
period that was in time. The lawfulness or otherwise of earlier variations to the SVR which 
contributed to the interest rate charged to Mr and Mrs B being set at the level it was during 
the period I can consider are, in my view, potentially relevant to what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. But they are not the only factor, and the passage of time between 
any variation and the period of time I can consider is also relevant to the weight to be 
attached to that as one of the factors influencing the fairness of the rate charged during the 
period I can consider. 
Nor do I agree with Mr and Mrs B that I should set aside the time limits. The arguments 
theyve made are substantially the same as those made before the jurisdiction decision, and 
were dealt with in that decision. And, although the High Court decision was about a similar 
case not this complaint, the same approach was taken and was implicitly approved at least 
to some extent by the Court. So I dont intend to deal with them at length again here. 
But in summary, I dont agree that the six month limit shouldnt apply because Mr and Mrs B 
didnt have any reason to know MAS5 might not have acted in accordance with the contract. 
As I said in my jurisdiction decision, if Mr B reached that conclusion following his own 
research after 2016, he could have reached the same conclusion earlier. And in any case, 
he and Mrs B clearly knew there was something about their interest rate they were unhappy 
with, because they did complain about it. The fact that MAS5 didnt uphold their complaint is 
not a reason which prevented them referring it to us. 
And for the same reasons I dont agree that there are exceptional circumstances which 
would allow me to set aside the time limits. I did not find that there was evidence of bad faith, 
or dishonesty, on MAS5s part. And in any case the time limit rules require there to be 
exceptional circumstances which explain why Mr and Mrs B were unable to refer their 
complaint to us in time  they give the example of being incapacitated for medical reasons. I 
dont think the mere fact that MAS5 did not agree with the complaint (whether or not it was 
justified in doing so) amounts to exceptional circumstances which prevented Mr and Mrs B 
from referring their complaint to us before they did.
Dismissal
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt consider it an appropriate exercise of my 
discretion under DISP 3.3.4 R to dismiss the complaint on the basis that considering its 
merits would seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
because the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded 
under the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I said that because I did not think that the subject matter of this complaint had previously 
been considered. While we had considered similar complaints from different complainants  
upholding some and rejecting others  the identity of the complainant is inherent in a 
complaint. We have not previously considered a complaint on this issue from these 
complainants, and it would not be appropriate to deprive these complainants of the 
opportunity to complain merely because other unrelated complainants have already done so.MAS5 said that interpreting the rule in this way fettered my discretion in a way that is 
contrary to the intention of the rule. MAS5 says that it is established Financial Ombudsman 
Service practice to deal with complaints in this way. It says that, for example, where a claims 
management company brings high volumes of identical complaints on behalf of different 
customers, it is our practice to select a lead case and then dismiss the remaining complaints. 
But I dont agree with MAS5 about this. It misunderstands our rules and processes. Where 
we have a high volume of similar complaints  often, but not always, brought by the same 
representative  it is indeed sometimes our practice to select a lead or representative case. 
We then investigate the issues on that individual case and let the parties know our 
conclusions. 
But it is not true to say that, having done so, we proceed to dismiss the remainder. Rather  
in situations where the complaints are identical and there are no individual variations of 
underlying facts that would impact the outcome  we invite the parties to learn from the 
approach we have applied to the lead case and the conclusions we reached. If the lead case 
is upheld, it may be that the firm then agrees to make settlement offers on the remainder in 
line with the lead case. And if the lead case is not upheld, it may be that the representative 
agrees to withdraw the remainder. In both cases, the respondent or complainants 
representative comes to a pragmatic conclusion having learned from the approach we set 
out in the lead case3, avoiding the need for individual investigation. But should either party 
not be willing to resolve matters on this pragmatic basis, we would not dismiss the other 
complaints, but would go on to resolve them individually.  
MAS5 also says that it is unfair to deal with this complaint now having not upheld other 
complaints in the past, including the 2014 decision I referred to in my provisional decision. It 
said we must have been satisfied by the evidence at the time; to the extent that we are not 
satisfied now, that must be because the evidence has deteriorated in the meantime, and so 
it is unfair for the issue to be revisited now.
As Ive explained, I dont think that even if I were minded to dismiss this complaint for that 
reason (which I am not) I dont think I have the power to do so under our rules since these 
complainants had not previously brought this complaint. Rather, matters such as the 
passage of time and the availability of evidence go to my decision making on the merits  
they are questions relevant to the weight I give the evidence and the outcome I reach, not to 
my ability to consider the complaint at all. 
As I said in my provisional decision, part of reaching a fair and reasonable  and rational  
outcome is an expectation that like cases be treated alike. But that does not mean that past 
cases make a binding precedent. My primary obligation is to decide this complaint based on 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Both 
parties have referred me to past cases supportive of their opposing positions, so it is not 
possible to reach the same outcome in this case as in all past cases. And where my 
conclusions in this case differ from conclusions reached in the past, what is important is that 
my conclusions in this case are reached on a sound and rational basis in all the 
circumstances. 
Ive revisited again the 2014 decision MAS5 referred me to. As I explained, I have no 
recollection of reviewing the complaint at the time and the case file does not survive. 
It appears from that earlier decision that the case advanced by the complainant was different 
to the case advanced in this complaint. The 2014 complainant appears to have argued that 
3 As, indeed, they are required to do applying DISP 1.3 (in the case of firms) and CMCOB 2.1.7 R and 
2.1.8 G (3) (in the case of regulated claims management representatives)MAS5 was contractually obliged to tie its SVR to base rate. I found that there was no such 
obligation and noted that MAS5 had given a credible explanation of why its SVR had 
increased absent changes to base rate  but (unlike in this case, where the actual 
justification MAS5 gave is central to the complainants argument) did not consider it 
necessary to analyse that alternative explanation in detail since it was not central to the 
complaint that had been made. 
There is no suggestion in the body of the earlier decision that  for example  I considered 
MAS5s accounts at that time. So it may be (though I dont know this for sure) that I took the 
explanation of cost of funding MAS5 provided at face value. Unlike in this complaint, it does 
not appear that I went on to consider whether and the extent to which MAS5 itself 
experienced an increase in its costs of funds. In my provisional decision in this case, I found 
that MAS5s accounts suggested it did not. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, one case does not act as a binding precedent for 
another. The imperative is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the individual case, taking into account the evidence available in the individual case. In doing 
so, Im satisfied Ive given appropriate weight to the existence of past cases involving other 
complainants where different conclusions were reached  in both directions  but that 
ultimately I am deciding this case on the basis of the evidence before me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two separate issues to resolve in this complaint  whether Mr and Mrs B should 
have been on the SVR at all, or whether MAS5 should have offered them a new interest 
rate; and if they were fairly on the SVR, whether the interest MAS5 charged them was fair 
during the period I can consider. 
The complaint about access to a new interest rate product
Ill deal with this part of the complaint first, since if I find that Mr and Mrs B should not have 
been on the SVR at all, but should have been offered a new preferential interest rate 
product, the second complaint about the level of the SVR falls away.
This part of my decision is subject to a separate time limit. It wasnt part of the complaint 
Mr and Mrs B made to MAS5 in 2016, and so is not out of time for the period leading up to 
the 7 November 2016 final response. Instead, its subject to the six year / three year rule, 
which requires a complaint to be made within six years of the date of the event complained 
of or, if later, three years of the date the complainant knew (or ought reasonably to have 
known) of cause for complaint  unless there are exceptional circumstances. I said in my 
jurisdiction decision that the time limit applying to this part of the complaint began in 
February 2013  so we can only consider whether MAS5 should fairly have offered 
Mr and Mrs B a new interest rate from then on. 
When they took the mortgage out with GMAC, Mr and Mrs B took an initial fixed interest rate.
The mortgage offer says:
A fixed rate of 6.39% [is applicable] until 30 June 2009
From the 01 July 2009 the rate that will apply is GMAC-RFC Ltd standard variable 
rate, currently 7.49%, for the remaining term of the mortgage.By 1 July 2009, the mortgage had been transferred from GMAC to MAS5. Such a transfer is 
permitted under the terms and conditions and therefore MAS5 was now legitimately 
Mr and Mrs Bs lender. And the terms and conditions allow for the GMAC SVR to be 
substituted for the SVR of the transferee in those circumstances. Im satisfied that MAS5 is 
properly Mr and Mrs Bs lender and is entitled  acting fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions  to set the SVR on their mortgage.
Therefore from 1 July 2009 Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage reverted to the MAS5 SVR. This is 
what the mortgage offer said would happen. There is no breach of contract in reverting to the 
SVR. And neither the mortgage offer nor the terms and conditions say that GMAC, or a later 
transferee, was required to offer Mr and Mrs B a new fixed rate once they were on the SVR. 
Nor was GMAC or MAS5 required to make rates available for them to apply for.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage has therefore operated throughout in this respect in line with the 
terms and conditions and the terms of the mortgage offer  it consisted of an initial fixed rate, 
followed by the SVR for the remainder of the term. (Whether it operated in line with the terms 
and conditions in respect of changes to the SVR during the period Mr and Mrs B were 
subject to it is a separate question I deal with below.)
There is not and never has been any other obligation for a lender to offer its borrowers new 
or preferential interest rates to replace a reversion rate. Just as there was no contractual 
term, there is no law, or rule of regulation, that compels this.
Where a lender chooses to make preferential rates available to some customers, there are 
obligations which apply to how it considers applications from its customers for such a rate 
and to the fair treatment of customers who may be eligible or ineligible for any rate their 
lender offers.
However, where a lender chooses not to make preferential rates available to any customer, 
there is nothing to say that it must do so. And Im satisfied that  legal and regulatory 
obligations aside  lenders arent required to do so as a matter of general fairness.
MAS5 is a firm in its own right  though it was part of the wider Britannia and then Co-op 
groups, it is a separate entity to other firms in the group. MAS5s business model is the 
acquisition of loans originally lent by other lenders and the management of those loans 
through to redemption. It is not in the business of originating new loans in its own right and 
therefore does not offer preferential rates to attract new customers or retain existing ones. In 
my opinion in adopting this business model MAS5 did not act unfairly or unreasonably.
In those circumstances, I dont think it was unfair that MAS5 did not offer new preferential 
interest rates to Mr and Mrs B after they reverted to the SVR. It did not have such rates 
available; it was not obliged to make them available. And this did not result in Mr and Mrs B 
being treated less favourably than any other MAS5 customer also on a reversion rate.
Mr and Mrs B have pointed to the availability of preferential rates from other firms in the 
wider Co-op group, not least The Co-operative Bank plc itself. But I dont think that is a 
consideration of weight in this case. MAS5 says that, as The Co-operative Bank plc is a 
different firm, with a different business model, if Mr and Mrs B wanted to move their 
mortgage to The Co-operative Bank plc they would need to apply as new customers for a 
The Co-operative Bank plc mortgage. While The Co-operative Bank plc has chosen to offer 
new preferential rates to its own existing customers, I dont think it follows that other 
separate firms in the group are also obliged to do so or are acting unfairly if they do not. As I 
discuss in more detail elsewhere in this decision, as distinct legal entities, the separation 
between MAS5 and other companies in the group is an important feature of this complaint.And if Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that The Co-operative Bank plc did not offer them a rate  
rather than a complaint that MAS5 ought to have offered them a rate because The 
Co-operative Bank plc offered rates to its customers  then that is a complaint that would 
need to be made to The Co-operative Bank plc as a separate regulated entity and a firm in 
its own right. I cannot make any findings about The Co-operative Bank plc in a complaint 
against MAS5.
For those reasons, Im satisfied that, in not offering Mr and Mrs B a new preferential interest 
rate MAS5 was not acting unfairly or unreasonably in all the circumstances. And I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
That means I need to go on to consider the fairness of the SVR that Mr and Mrs B were 
charged from 8 November 2016 onwards.
The complaint about the level of the SVR
In determining this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, I remind myself again that I am only 
considering the fairness of the interest they were charged from 8 November 2016 onwards.
In considering the fairness of interest charged since 8 November 2016, I am required to take 
into account, in determining what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances:
relevant
olaw and regulations;
oregulators rules, guidance and standards;
ocodes of practice; and
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
As I have set out above, consideration of all the circumstances of the complaint includes 
consideration of matters that happened before 8 November 2016 to the extent that they are 
relevant to the fairness of the interest rate charged after 8 November 2016, even though a 
complaint about such matters would itself be out of time  to see what impact, if any, they 
had on the rate applied on and after 8 November 2016 and whether that in turn had any 
effect on whether the rate charged after 8 November 2016 was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
But my consideration of the fairness of the interest rate charged on and after 8 November 
2016 is not limited to those matters which led up to, and may have impacted, the level of the 
rate on 8 November 2016. I also need to consider any subsequent actions by MAS5 to vary 
the interest rate, as well as the wider circumstances in which MAS5 operated and the 
broader context of the mortgage lending environment at the time.
In considering whether the interest rate charged from 8 November 2016 was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, therefore, I will need to take into account:
Whether MAS5 acted lawfully within the terms of the mortgage contract in varying the 
SVR such that it reached the level it did on 8 November 2016.Whether there are any other reasons that would justify the SVR being at the level it 
was on 8 November 2016 and thereafter  bearing in mind that while I take into 
account the law, I must ultimately consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
The lawfulness and fairness of any actions MAS5 took after 8 November 2016 in 
changing the level of the SVR  or not changing the level of the SVR.
This necessarily means taking into account the decisions by MAS5 to vary the SVR in 2009, 
2011 and 2012. In considering those matters, I must bear in mind that they are not the 
subject of this complaint in their own right  such a complaint would be out of time  and that 
those decisions were taken some years ago, potentially impacting the quality of the evidence 
now available. 
And even if I find that MAS5 increased the SVR for a reason not permitted by the contract in 
increasing the SVR in 2009 2011 and / or 2012, it would not automatically follow that the rate 
charged from 8 November 2016 was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The 
lawfulness of those variations is one of the circumstances to be taken into account in the 
broader assessment of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Its also 
necessary to consider wider factors, including matters such as the passage of time (the 
longer the gap between any unlawful variation and the period I can consider, the less directly 
causative effect it may have, for example); other reasons for which MAS5 may legitimately 
have increased the SVR; and the wider commercial reality of MAS5s position within both the 
wider group and the mortgage market as a whole.
Its also necessary to think about not just those wider circumstances, but the circumstances 
of this case  whether Mr and Mrs B were treated fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances during the period I can consider. Their own position is a relevant 
consideration; including that they were in financial difficulties and unable to move the 
mortgage elsewhere, and therefore obliged to remain with MAS5 regardless of the decisions 
it took. 
Ill start by considering whether Im satisfied that MAS5 was permitted by the terms of the 
contract to increase the SVR when it did  and if not, what the effect of that is as a matter of 
law.  
The terms and conditions
MAS5 has told us in its submissions that on each occasion it increased the SVR  in 2009, 
2011 and 2012  it did so relying on condition 3.1(b)  cost of funds. The evidence of the 
decisions it took at the time confirms that cost of funds was MAS5s motivation for increasing 
the SVR in 2011 and 2012 (at this stage I do not find that changes to cost of funds actually 
justified the increases; I merely note that the evidence shows that was the motivation 
recorded in the contemporaneous documents). For 2009 the evidence shows that the 
internal discussion at the time was focussed primarily on increasing the SVR from a low level 
to a level more in line with other firms in the group, though MAS5 says in its submissions 
that the primary motivation was cost of funds but that with the passage of time further 
evidence confirming that might not survive. Ill discuss the reasons for each of the increases 
below. 
In my provisional decision, I found that  although it was not an active lender, in the sense 
that it sought out and took on new business  MAS5 was nevertheless engaged in a mortgage lending business in acting as the lender of the mortgages it acquired from 
GMAC. It is therefore entitled in principle to rely on condition 3.1 (b). 
Since this is not something either party took issue with in their responses to my provisional 
decision, I confirm that finding here but dont consider it necessary to go into further detail 
about that.
I then went on to consider the remainder of the relevant term. In my provisional decision, I 
said:
[C]ondition 3.1(b) refers solely to increases in the costs of our mortgage lending 
business. Our is a defined term in the contract, and means GMAC-RFC Limited 
and anyone who at any time in the future is entitled to exercise our rights under the 
mortgage including: (a) any transferee.
The transferee is MAS5. So our mortgage lending business includes MAS5. It does 
not include Britannia or any of its other subsidiary firms. While I acknowledge what 
MAS5 says about group funding costs, and I address that for completenesss sake 
where I consider it appropriate, I am satisfied that I need to focus on MAS5s own 
funding costs; the terms and conditions dont provide for increases to cross-subsidise 
group funding costs. I dont consider it reasonable to suggest that customers agreed 
for their SVR to be varied by reference to the costs of funds of a legally distinct 
company. The terms dont say that.
I then went on to consider whether the evidence  including the evidence of MAS5s 
corporate accounts  showed that there was a change to MAS5s cost of funds, noting that 
MAS5 relied on condition 3.1 (b) when making the increases in 2009  2012.
MAS5 says that this is too narrow an interpretation. It says that the term and conditions 
make no reference to MAS5s accounts. And it says that condition 3.1 (b) does not say that 
funding costs must be exclusive to MAS5. It says that a change  in the cost of the funds 
we use in our mortgage lending business clearly includes funds held within or sourced by 
the wider group but used by MAS5  and that this is the commercial reality of MAS5s 
position. 
MAS5 also says that it does not agree it would not be reasonable to suggest that customers 
agreed for their SVR to be varied by reference to the costs of funds of a legally distinct 
company. It said that it thought customers are more likely to equate their mortgage with 
being held by The Co-op / Britannia than by MAS5 as a separate entity in its own right. Their 
mortgage being transferred from GMAC to a holding company in an established group, 
its reasonable to expect customers would understand their mortgages were being 
influenced by group wide factors, rather than operating in isolation.
Ive considered again what MAS5 says about this. But I dont agree. I think the clear 
meaning of the clause is that MAS5 can only make changes to the SVR to reflect changes 
which have occurred, or which MAS5 (in substitution for GMAC) reasonably expects will 
occur, in the cost of funds that MAS5 used in its mortgage lending business (again, MAS5 in 
succession to GMAC). What happened after the contract was entered into  post-contractual 
events such as the transfer to MAS5 and MAS5s wider ownership  does not affect the 
clauses meaning. 
Condition 3.1 of the terms and conditions says:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the 
following reasons:(a) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
While MAS5 appears to suggest that customers might have expected, once their mortgage 
was transferred to MAS5, that their interest rate might vary based on what happened in the 
wider group, that isnt part of the contract or relevant to its meaning. 
I remind myself that section 1  definitions and interpretation  says:
we, us and our refers to GMAC-RFC Limited and anyone who at any time in the 
future is entitled to exercise our rights under the mortgage including: (a) any 
transferee
The mortgage was transferred from GMAC to MAS5  not to Britannia, to the wider group or 
to any other company in the group. MAS5 became the new owner of the mortgage under the 
transfer agreement and is the transferee. And the words we, us and our have a defined 
specific meaning  GMAC-RFC Limited and any transferee, not the wider Britannia or Co-op 
groups. 
I think it is clear, therefore, that condition 3.1 (b)  to reflect a change which has occurred, 
or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage 
lending business means
to reflect a change which has occurred, or which MAS5 reasonably expects to occur, 
in the costs of the funds MAS5 uses to fund MAS5s mortgage lending business.
I dont think it can reasonably be argued that the words we and our have any other 
meaning, and I think its important to underline that the clause talks about funds that we 
use.
MAS5 says the word uses includes funds held or sourced by the wider group but which are 
used by MAS5 for the purpose of MAS5s mortgage lending business.
I dont disagree about that. I dont think theres anything in the contract  or elsewhere  
which requires MAS5 to raise or service its funding costs directly and wholly independently 
of the rest of the group. I accept that, for reasons including practicality and economies of 
scale as well as ease of regulatory compliance, its legitimate for Britannia and then Co-op to 
manage its funding on a group basis. And Im satisfied that this is what actually did happen. 
But that is not the end of the matter.  
I agree that the word uses is sufficiently broad to cover cost of funding incurred on a group 
basis where MAS5 is part of the group as well as cost of funding incurred directly by MAS5. 
However, in my view the change must be one to the costs of the funds MAS5 uses, so that 
there must be some linkage between changes to the groups funding arrangements and the 
costs that MAS5 itself incurs via the mechanism of condition 3.1(b) for that condition to be 
met. MAS5 itself (we) needs to use those funds to fund its mortgage lending business, 
and the costs of those funds must be incurred by MAS5.
If the group experiences changes to costs of funding that part of its mortgage business 
which does not include MAS5 (changes solely affecting the prime retail mortgages held by 
The Co-operative Bank plc, for example), it would not in my view be permitted to use those changes to justify a change to the MAS5 SVR  because they would not be changes which 
have occurred in the costs of funds used in our (MAS5s and MAS5s alone) mortgage 
business. 
Whereas if there were changes in the costs of funds of all the groups mortgage business, or 
part of the groups mortgage business which did include MAS5s mortgages, that would 
potentially be a change in the costs of funds used in our mortgage business. But while 
necessary thats not enough of itself. 
In order to meet the requirements of condition 3.1 (b), in my view, whats required is a 
change in the costs of funds used in MAS5s own mortgage business. That requires a 
change to cost of funds MAS5 incurs itself, otherwise there is not a sufficient nexus between 
the funds sourced at group level and MAS5s own mortgage lending business.
In the circumstances of the present complaint, the only way in which MAS5s costs of funds 
might have increased for the purposes of 3.1(b) is, broadly, if either (i) it was required to pay 
an increased amount to third parties (whether part of the group or otherwise) in respect of 
existing funds it used in its mortgage business, or (ii) it had to source new funds elsewhere 
(and subsequently, having done so, facing increased associated costs). The fact that other 
companies in the group faced increased costs is not relevant in and of itself unless MAS5 
had to bear all or part of those increased costs.
If the group faces changes in costs of funds of the groups mortgage business which only 
impact the cost of certain parts of the group mortgage business not including MAS5  
changes which only affect the prime retail book, for example  it wouldnt in my view be 
permissible under condition 3.1 (b) for MAS5 to change the interest rate. Thats because 
such a change would not be reflective of changes in the cost of funding MAS5s mortgage 
business  only of changes in the cost of funding other parts of the group.
And if the group faces changes in costs of funds of the groups mortgage business which do 
impact the cost of the group mortgage business including MAS5  changes which affect the 
sub-prime optimum book of which the group considers MAS5 a part  it would only in my 
view be permissible under condition 3.1 (b) for MAS5 to change the interest rate if MAS5 
itself had to bear all or part of those increased costs. 
If those changes were absorbed in full by other parts of the group, then changes to group 
funding would not translate into changes to the costs of the funds MAS5 itself incurs and 
uses to fund its own mortgage lending business. In order to use something, there must be 
a connection between the user and the thing used. In addition, I dont agree that clause 
3.1(b) should be interpreted as though it reads to reflect a change which has occurred, or 
which MAS5 reasonably expects to occur, in the costs of the funds related companies in the 
Co-Op group use to fund the mortgage lending business of which MAS5 is a part. I dont 
read clause 3.1(b) as envisaging that MAS5 could be some sort of passive middleman 
whereby customers can be required to pay for the increased costs of funds of separate 
companies which MAS5 itself does not incur. I need to be satisfied that MAS5 in fact used 
the funds whose costs had been impacted in its mortgage lending business, and that there 
was a change to MAS5s own liabilities, whether to other firms in the group or to firms 
outside the group.
This last consideration led to the focus of my provisional decision being, in part, on the 
evidence of MAS5s accounts. The evidence of the accounts did not persuade me that 
MAS5s own costs had changed at the relevant times justifying the changes to the interest 
rate. MAS5 has provided further evidence about that, which Ill review below.Ultimately I think the reality is that this is not a question of contractual interpretation; its a 
question of whether, on the facts and evidence of the case, MAS5 has shown that it itself did 
in fact experience changes in the costs of funds it used in its mortgage lending business.
Is this a fair term?
In my provisional decision, I considered whether a court would be likely to find condition 3.1, 
or parts of it, to be an unfair term applying the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations, which is the relevant law applying to this agreement. I considered the wording 
of the term alongside the regulations and relevant caselaw. 
Neither party has made any further points about the fairness of the term. As there are no 
further arguments about this, I dont intend to go into further detail; I merely note that my 
conclusion  which I see no reason to depart from  was:
I think its likely that a court would conclude that the costs of funds variation term 
was not unfair and would not fall within the Schedule 2 grey list. Applying the law on 
unfair terms as it was at the time the mortgage was taken out, I am satisfied that 
overall the term does not create a significant imbalance between the parties contrary 
to the requirement of good faith. At the time the mortgage was taken out, I am not 
persuaded that there were foreseeable barriers to exit were MAS5 to rely on the 
term, and that a consumer in a hypothetical negotiation - understanding that over the 
course of an agreement as long as a mortgage, a lenders costs might change - 
would have agreed to the term. Bearing that in mind, and taking into account that this 
is not a key part of Mr and Mrs Bs case, I will proceed on the basis that this term is 
not unfair as a matter of law for the purposes of this decision.
More widely, I dont think the concept of an SVR, or a variable reversion rate, is an 
inherently unfair one. Its a standard feature of the UK mortgage lending market. A 
reversion rate allows a lender to attract new customers with a preferential initial rate, 
while building in the flexibility a variable rate allows to manage its longer term costs 
after the initial preferential interest rate period. Many borrowers treat the reversion 
point as an opportunity to shop around for another preferential rate  either with their 
existing lender or moving to another lender.
In this case, MAS5 did not offer new rates and Mr and Mrs B didnt or couldnt move 
elsewhere. But that doesnt affect my conclusions that maintaining their mortgage on 
the SVR was fair in principle. Their mortgage was operating as it should under the 
terms and conditions when they reverted to and remained on the SVR.
If I am wrong about that, Ive reminded myself that legally, the effect of a term being 
unfair as a matter of law is that it wont apply. But that wouldnt necessarily mean that 
there has been unfairness. Under our rules I am required to consider what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. That includes  but is not limited to  relevant 
law.
Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the extent to which, the way in 
which the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr and Mrs B in 
the interest charged to them from November 2016 onwards. That is the ultimate 
question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold the complaint. But before I 
come to consider that question, I must first look at the historic context which may 
have contributed to the interest rate charged from November 2016 onwards. And of particular relevance as part of that context are the four variations to the SVR MAS5 
made from 2009.
History of the SVR
The following table summarises the changes to the SVR which impacted Mr and Mrs B (I 
have not detailed all the reductions from when they took the mortgage out, but while they 
were on their initial fixed rate the SVR reduced from 6.39% to 2.99%). Mr and Mrs Bs fixed 
rate ended on 30 June 2009 and so their reversion to the SVR on 1 July 2009 coincided with 
the first of the 2009 rate increases. 
BoE base rate Date base rate 
changedChange to 
SVRDate SVR changed New SVR
1.00% 5 February 2009 - 0.5% 1 March 2009 2.99%
0.5% 5 March 2009 No change No change 2.99%
0.5% No change + 0.75% 1 July 2009 3.74%
0.5% No change + 0.76% 1 October 2009 4.50%
0.5% No change + 0.75% 1 March 2011 5.25%
0.5% No change + 0.50% 1 May 2012 5.75%
0.25% 4 August 2016 - 0.25% 1 September 2016 5.50%
0.5% 2 November 
2017+ 0.25% 1 December 2017 5.75%
0.75% 2 August 2018 + 0.25% 1 August 2018 6.00%
0.25% 11 March 2020 - 0.5% 1 April 2020 5.5%
0.1% 19 March 2020 - 0.15% 1 May 2020 5.35%
Until 2009, the restrictive covenant was in place, and the SVR reduced in line with changes 
to base rate. From 2009, the restrictive covenant was no longer in place.
The four variations in the SVR which did not reflect changes in base rate, in July and 
October 2009 and in 2011 and 2012, were active decisions taken by MAS5 after the end of 
the restrictive covenant. In each case, although there was not specific reference to the 
particular contractual terms of MAS5 mortgages recorded in the internal discussions at the 
time, it now says it relied on condition 3.1(b), which permitted it to vary the SVR to reflect a 
change which had occurred, or which it reasonably expected to occur, in the cost of funds 
used in its mortgage lending business.It is important to underline that MAS5 has no freestanding right under the contract to decide 
on the level of its SVR afresh each month before calculating the interest to be added to 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. 
Rather, the contract gives it the power to change the SVR from time to time if and only if 
specific circumstances arise. The SVR then remains at that revised level unless and until a 
further permitted variation occurs. Therefore, the SVR charged from 8 November 2016 can 
be considered to be the sum of the parts of the history that went before. If there were 
problems with any of those parts - for example, because the SVR was varied for a reason 
not set out in the terms and conditions - that might be relevant to whether Mr and Mrs B 
were treated unfairly from 8 November 2016 onwards.
The interest rate reductions prior to May 2009 
Prior to Mr and Mrs Bs reversion to the SVR on 1 July 2009, the SVR had reduced in line 
with reductions to Bank of England base rate (with the exception of the March 2009 base 
rate reduction). MAS5 says that these reductions were not reflective of reductions in its cost 
of funds, but were driven by the restrictive covenant by which its SVR could not exceed 2% 
above Bank of England base rate.
This meant that prior to 2009, the MAS5 SVR fell in line with base rate when other SVRs 
within the wider Britannia group had not fallen to the same extent  and neither had the 
GMAC SVR. I think its likely that the existence of the restrictive covenant meant that, by 
June 2009, the MAS5 SVR was lower than it would otherwise have been. Although 
Mr and Mrs B did not pay the SVR during this period, nevertheless I think its likely they 
benefited from the existence of the restrictive covenant in that the SVR as at 1 July 2009 
(even factoring in the increase which took effect on that date) was lower than it might 
otherwise have been. But Mr and Mrs B do not have any rights under the covenant directly 
and it is not a term of their mortgage.
Nevertheless, Im satisfied that the variations up to March 2009 were permitted by the terms 
of the contract, even if they were driven by the restrictive covenant  since condition 3.1 (a) 
allows MAS5 to vary the SVR to reflect changes in the Bank of England base rate and the 
SVR reduced as base rate reduced.
MAS5 did not pass on the final base rate cut, in March 2009. But under the terms and 
conditions it was not obliged to do so  since the terms say that it may (not must) vary the 
SVR to reflect changes in base rate. The SVR is not a tracker rate and the terms and 
conditions do not oblige MAS5 to treat it as such. 
MAS5 noted at the time that not passing on the final base rate cut meant that the SVR went 
above the cap in the restrictive covenant. But while that might have put MAS5 in breach of 
its obligations to GMAC under the covenant, the covenant was not part of its contract with 
Mr and Mrs B and Ive not seen anything to suggest they had any enforceable rights under it. 
MAS5 was not in breach of its contractual obligations to Mr and Mrs B.
Im therefore satisfied that in passing on the base rate reductions prior to March 2009, and in 
not passing on the March 2009 base rate reduction, MAS5 acted in a way permitted by the 
mortgage contract.
The interest rate increases from 2009 to 2012I considered the evidence for changes  or anticipated changes  to cost of funds around the 
time of the increases from 2009 to 2012 in my provisional decision. I said:
MAS5 has sought to argue that its mortgage lending business is not managed or 
funded independently, but rather that this is done on a whole group basis (first across 
Britannia and then, since 2009, across the Co-operative Bank group). Group 
mortgage lending and the acquisition of mortgages originating with other lenders 
(such as, in this case, GMAC) is funded through three main sources  capital held at 
group level, capital raised through retail customers (such as savings deposits) and 
capital raised through wholesale sources. The latter includes a mix of short-term and 
longer-term funding streams including borrowing  though the longer-term funding 
streams are still substantially shorter than the term of a mortgage  and 
securitisation.4 As I discuss further below, I am not satisfied that this accurately 
reflects how MAS5 was in fact funded. However, I have set out MAS5s position for 
completeness.
Britannia and then the Co-op group had a rolling program of renewing funding 
streams. MAS5 says that following the global financial crisis the group faced 
significant challenges in raising and renewing funding. These included challenges 
faced across the industry, as well as specific challenges related to the markets 
perception of Britannia and Co-op. MAS5 argues that these resulted in an additional 
premium that attached to group funding, as well as difficulties in raising longer term 
funding and a greater reliance on more expensive shorter-term funding. In addition to 
specific funding costs, Britannia also entered into financial arrangements to manage 
its risk exposure, at further cost.
Contemporaneous documents from MAS5s parent company refer to the impact of 
the reducing base rate on Britannias business, and show that the cost of raising 
external funds rose during the financial crisis despite the reduction in base rate. As 
well as increased costs of raising funds from the markets, Britannia was also faced 
with reductions in the capital it held which needed to be replaced, such that there 
was overall pressure on its margins. By 2009, funding costs began to fall back, but 
did not reduce at the same level or the same rate as reductions in Bank of England 
base rate and LIBOR at this time.
MAS5 has also provided us with a detailed third-party analysis of funding constraints 
across the mortgage market at this time. Although the analysis was prepared recently 
rather than at the time, Ive taken account of it as providing useful context on the 
environment Britannia was operating in at the time.
Im aware not just from this analysis but from my knowledge of the mortgage market 
that this period was a time of significant change in the wider market as a result of the 
financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected 
in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at the 
time. Sources of market analysis since then have reflected on the increasing 
difference between the Bank of England base rate and costs of funding. For 
example, the Bank of England has said:5
4 In simple terms, securitisation is a common arrangement whereby a lender sells the beneficial 
interest over a defined period in a package of loans to third party investors to raise funds. The lender 
generally retains legal title and acts as lender, but passes on payments received to the holder of the 
beneficial interest. 
5 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England - https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-
/media/boe/files/quarterly-bulletin/2014/bank-funding-costs-what-are-they-what-determines-them-and-
why-do-they-matter.pdfPrior to the 200708 financial crisis, bank funding costs largely moved in line 
with risk-free interest rates set by central banks, such as Bank Rate in the 
United Kingdom  the rate paid on reserves held by commercial banks at the 
Bank of England. In this environment, movements in risk-free rates provided a 
reasonably good guide to assessing both the transmission of monetary policy 
and changes in the profitability of banks. All of this changed with the onset of 
the financial crisis, however. Some sources of funding evaporated rapidly. 
And measures of bank funding costs rose sharply relative to risk-free rates. 
There was a sharp increase in a range of funding spreads  the difference 
between funding costs and the risk-free rate  during the period from 2007 to 
2011. This range has since fallen back somewhat but remains higher than in 
the period prior to the crisis.
Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly during this period, the costs to many 
lenders of funding their business changed, as did their prudential requirements. 
These are made up of several factors that are not directly linked to base rate. There 
was a substantial increase in risk to most lenders during that period which led to 
them having to mitigate that risk in different ways.
Mr B has pointed to falls in both base rate and LIBOR, and said that these show that 
MAS5s costs must have fallen too. I dont think that is necessarily true as far as base 
rate is concerned, as at a general level funding costs were increasingly divorced from 
base rate at this time. So I dont think its accurate to suggest that a fall in base rate 
would necessarily have equated to a corresponding fall in the cost of funds.
And I dont think its necessarily helpful to look at this issue in the abstract  condition 
3.1(b) says that one the reasons MAS5 may vary the SVR is to reflect a change 
which has occurred, or which MAS5 reasonably expects to occur, in the cost of the 
funds MAS5 uses in its mortgage lending business. So I think it is essential to look at 
what the drivers of MAS5s own costs of funds were.
In considering this, I reviewed not only the evidence MAS5 has provided on this 
case, but also other relevant evidence in the public domain  which includes its 
accounts. I have reviewed MAS5s published audited accounts from 2007 onwards.
The accounts show MAS5s income, assets and liabilities for each accounting year. 
They also provide contemporaneous commentary on MAS5s funding and business 
model at the time.
The accounts show the total value of the assets held by MAS5 (the outstanding 
mortgages) and its expenditure and liabilities. The vast part of its expenditure is 
described as interest expense and similar charges, and by far its largest liability is 
deemed loans due to group undertakings. The deemed loans appear to relate to 
payments due to securitisation vehicles in respect of future interest from customers 
of securitised mortgages. And most of the interest expense is on these deemed 
loans. There is also expenditure on other payables, which is largely money owed 
to its holding company (at this time Britannia, later The Co-op), charged at an 
effective interest rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.21%.
Virtually all of the income MAS5 received was interest paid by mortgage customers. 
MAS5s liabilities can be summarised as follows:
At all times: An on-demand loan from MAS5s parent company on which it 
paid interest of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.21%.Derivative financial instruments  swaps and hedges used to manage interest 
rate risk, predominantly on fixed rate loans. According to the accounts, this 
expenditure ceases altogether after 2008.
Payments to securitisation vehicles. From 2008 onwards, this is the largest 
contributor to MAS5s liabilities, representing over 75% of the total, though the 
absolute amount payable reduces each year in line with the reduction in the 
size of the loan book.
MAS5s accounting year is the same as the calendar year  its accounts are made 
up to 31 December each year. The following table summarises the assets and 
liabilities reported in its accounts for each year from 2007 onwards.
Year Loan book 
valueDerivatives Securitisations Loan from 
parent company
2007 £3,050m £21m £583m £2,472m
2008 £2,768m £39m £2,253m £500m
2009 £2,548m £0 £2,110m £432m
2010 £2,383m £0 £1,990m £366m
2011 £2,217m £0 £1,847m £319m
2012 £2,060m £0 £1,719m £300m
2013 £1,884m £0 £1,507m £315m
2014 £1,707m £0 £1,369m £219m
2015 £124m* £0 £0 £10m
*During 2015, MAS5 re-securitised £1.5bn of loans which were removed from its 
balance sheet
As far as the loan from the parent company is concerned, as 1 month LIBOR fell from 
November 2008 onwards, the cost of that tranche of funding would also have fallen. 
Although I note that MAS5 has argued that over the period from the start of the global 
financial crisis up to the decision to increase the SVR in 2009 the Britannia group (as 
it then was) faced significant increases in funding costs, Im not persuaded that even 
if this was the case that resulted in increases in the costs specifically of MAS5s 
mortgage lending business.
The third-party report MAS5 has provided cites a May 2011 inflation report from the 
Bank of England that indicates that marginal funding costs actually decreased from 
late 2008 to June 2009 (and were also lower than in 2006, when the GMAC 
restrictive covenant took effect).
In addition, that report shows how it finds "MAS5 Average Funding Costs" to have 
moved over time. It isn't apparent how these costs have been derived, or whether in fact this is referring to group funding costs, as the report fails to refer to MAS5's 
financial statements. In any event the report shows a substantial decline in funding 
costs over the period which is said to have been relevant to the 2009 changes, 
notwithstanding that average funding costs diverged more substantially from base 
rate and three-month LIBOR than was the case before 2009. The report shows that 
market (marginal) funding costs also decreased between the start and the end of the 
period over which MAS5 was bound by the restrictive covenant.
While I note the arguments MAS5 makes about group funding costs, condition 3.1(b) 
refers solely to increases in the costs of our mortgage lending business. Our is a 
defined term in the contract, and means GMAC-RFC Limited and anyone who at any 
time in the future is entitled to exercise our rights under the mortgage including: (a) 
any transferee.
The transferee is MAS5. So our mortgage lending business includes MAS5. It does 
not include Britannia or any of its other subsidiary firms. While I acknowledge what 
MAS5 says about group funding costs, and I address that for completenesss sake 
where I consider it appropriate, I am satisfied that I need to focus on MAS5s own 
funding costs; the terms and conditions dont provide for increases to cross-subsidise 
group funding costs. I dont consider it reasonable to suggest that customers agreed 
for their SVR to be varied by reference to the costs of funds of a legally distinct 
company. The terms dont say that. 
It might in principle be permissible to vary the SVR to take account of changes in 
group funding costs insofar as the variation represents the apportioned share of 
cumulative group costs apportioned to MAS5. That is what I understand MAS5 now 
says happened. However, Im not persuaded that the evidence shows this was in fact 
the case.
As set out above, Ive not seen any evidence of an increase, or the extent of an 
increase, in the costs specifically of MAS5s mortgage lending business. MAS5 has 
explained that its mortgage portfolio and funding costs were managed and accounted 
for at group level, not firm level. But Im not satisfied this adequately explains whether 
any variation of the SVR was for a reason permitted by the contract.
MAS5 is a limited company incorporated under the Companies Act. It has its own 
financial statements, which record its assets, liabilities, revenues and expenditure in 
detail. Its directors have signed off those statements as giving a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company, and those statements have been audited in 
accordance with the applicable law. I dont believe that MAS5 is suggesting that 
those statements do not present a true and fair view of its business. It would have 
been open to MAS5s parent company to adopt a different corporate structure where 
it apportioned its costs of funds differently, but it didnt.
While MAS5 has concentrated its representations on what is says were the 
pressures on the groups which successively owned MAS5, Im not satisfied that 
those pressures were, in and of themselves, relevant to whether MAS5s own funding 
costs increased.
I note that MAS5 and the expert report it has provided have said little if anything 
about MAS5s own costs of funding as set out in the accounts. I think that this means 
that their representations miss the central point regarding what MAS5 was permitted 
to do under the contract. While MAS5 has argued that it is not possible to separate 
out MAS5 cost of funds since the group did not manage its business in that way, I am 
not persuaded by this. I am satisfied that the accounts show that in fact MAS5s business was managed separately from the group, and its costs of funding were also 
separate. And this means that it is MAS5s own costs that are relevant so far as the 
terms and conditions were concerned, notwithstanding that MAS5 is a subsidiary 
within a wider group.
Even if what MAS5 now says about funding pressures on the wider groups is correct, 
that does not reflect the position in respect of the costs specific to MAS5, as MAS5 
itself reported in its accounts at the time.
Even though MAS5 was not engaged in new lending, it could still have faced costs in 
managing its existing portfolio of loans. That might have included renewing 
underlying funding streams that operated on a shorter-term basis than the mortgages 
themselves. 
However the accounts indicate that MAS5s own costs of funding  through the loan 
from the parent company and the 2008 securitisations  remained stable (and in fact 
reduced over time). Those costs are all that MAS5 reported at the time  and 
therefore do not support the need for an increase in the SVR relying on increased 
cost of funding.
I bear in mind that these decisions were made thirteen years ago. MAS5 has said 
that it has provided all the evidence it has available, but with the passage of time 
there may be further evidence that is no longer in existence. Thats a relevant 
consideration, and Ive taken into account the difficulties of reviewing a complex 
decision so long after the events.
However, I think that the report MAS5 has provided and its own financial statements 
provide enough evidence to satisfy me that MAS5s costs of funds did not rise during 
this period. 
The report demonstrates that MAS5's costs of funding (even if they are taken to be 
the same as those of the groups of companies to which MAS5 belonged) did not rise, 
but fell, over the period relied upon. The apparent justification for the rise in the SVR 
is not that the funding costs rose, but that the SVR had previously fallen further than 
the funding costs because of the restrictive covenant. The accounts show that MAS5 
did have its own funding, that this was all in place by end 2008 and was never 
refinanced thereafter (until 2015) and was not on terms that had reference to 
wholesale funding costs of banks generally, or costs of the owning groups. In my 
opinion, the data and arguments about market funding costs that MAS5 have 
provided shed little light on the costs of funding MAS5's own mortgage lending 
business.
I think that better evidence of MAS5s costs comes from its own accounts, audited 
and filed at the time  at least in respect of the period before 2015, when it moved 
securitised loans out of the accounts. Ive summarised what these accounts show 
above. It seems to me that in these annual accounts, MAS5 did separate out its own 
income and costs from that of the wider group  notwithstanding what it now says. 
The separate accounting by MAS5 for its own assets, liabilities, income and 
expenditure (including its costs of funding its lending business) is as would be 
expected and indeed required, given its separate legal identity. The accounts say 
that its costs were monies paid out to securitisation vehicles and loan repayments to 
the wider group.
As Ill note below, in relation to the 2011 and 2012 increases, re-securitisation of the 
loans held by MAS5 does not seem to have been possible at this time. But existing securitisations were continuing, and MAS5 was making payments to those vehicles 
in the form of the repayments and interest on the deemed loans provided at the 
time of securitisation. Based on the accounts, it appears to me that these 
securitisations were the main driver of MAS5 funding costs, though the other part of 
its funding  1 month LIBOR plus 0.21% - became significantly cheaper over the 
course of the global financial crisis. Even if there were significant pressures on 
wholesale funding at this time which affected the Britannia group as a whole, based 
on the evidence of the accounts it doesnt appear to me that MAS5 specifically was 
exposed to these pressures. And the accounts filed by MAS5 at the time bear this out 
 with costs associated with securitisation making up the large part of its expenditure 
(along with payments on a low-rate loan from the parent group).
Over time, the accounts show both that MAS5s assets declined, and so did the 
balance of, and interest payments to, the deemed loan. And this is not surprising, 
since MAS5 was not taking on new business and some existing mortgages would be 
repaid each year.
What the accounts also show, however, is that the interest payments were declining 
not just in absolute terms, but also in proportion to the value of MAS5s assets.
MAS5s accounts were prepared on the basis that its assets, liabilities, income and 
expenditure were separate from that of the wider group. Even if funding costs were 
managed over the group as a whole those costs appear to have been specifically 
apportioned out across the firms in the group in the annual accounts filed by each of 
them. And it appears that in the specific case of MAS5, since its lending was 
securitised, its own exposure to wholesale funding from sources other than 
securitisation was negligible beyond the LIBOR-linked loan.
MAS5s own evidence makes clear that new securitisations and re-securitisations of 
the sorts of sub-prime lending held in the MAS5 book wasnt possible following the 
global financial crisis. There were no new securitisations between 2008 and 2015. So 
it doesnt seem likely that the costs of securitisation to MAS5 changed over this 
period  and this is what the accounts say.
In respect of the increase in 2011, I went on to say:
Again, MAS5 has sought to provide evidence and an explanation of the cost of funds 
across the group, and suggested that MAS5s costs were subsumed within them.
If that is correct, Id expect to see evidence that wider costs of funding increased for 
the group as a whole at this time, and Id expect to see evidence of how that 
translated into an increase of 0.75% on the MAS5 SVR specifically.
With that in mind, Ive reviewed the available evidence  not just that provided by 
MAS5 but also that available more generally.
MAS5 has not provided me with any direct evidence of reasoning behind the decision 
to increase the rate in March 2011  whether in the form of numerical evidence, or 
internal papers or documents.
It has provided an email exchange from December 2010 in which an individual with a 
Britannia email account offers a broad estimate of increased costs on a group wide 
basis and is then pushed into a more specific estimate by another individual, whose 
starting point appears to be that a 0.75% increase has been decided on and that 
evidence to support that is needed. That appears to me to be the wrong way round. I would have expected the group to first identify any increase in costs that had 
occurred/was anticipated and then decide what level of SVR increase that justified. 
This is limited evidence that at the time group funding costs had increased, though I 
dont think I can place a great deal of weight on the identification of 0.75%.
There is also an internal discussion paper about the groups Optimum portfolio 
(covering non-conforming businesses which included, but was not limited to, 
MAS5), but that dates from December 2011, nine months after the SVR increase. 
There is also a summary document from March 2011 relating to the Optimum 
portfolio, which asserts that funding costs have increased in a single bullet point, but 
provides no supporting evidence or discussion of how that resulted in an increase 
specifically of 0.75%.
MAS5 has also provided the third-party analysis I referred to above, which discusses 
this period.
As things stand, I am not satisfied that these documents show that MAS5 was 
entitled to rely on condition 3.1(b) to increase the SVR.
The discussion paper points out the notional increase in securitisation costs of loans 
of the type included within MAS5  but also points out that securitisation of non-
conforming / sub-prime loans was not possible at that time. This is confirmed by the 
analysis paper, which concludes the increase in the MAS5 SVR in March 2011 
cannot be explained by increases in the costs of securitisation. But as Ive said, its 
accounts show that MAS5s funding costs largely were securitisation costs.
The paper also refers to retail deposits  but only in terms of what it would cost to 
attract more deposit funding. This is not evidence that this cost was actually incurred. 
And the analysis paper concludes the increase in the MAS5 SVR cannot be 
explained by increases in retail funding costs. MAS5 was solely a mortgage lender 
and did not hold retail deposits.
The third-party analysis does conclude that the cost of obtaining new wholesale 
funding at this time had increased  though only on one of the two measures it uses. 
But there is no linkage between this general market analysis and the specific costs 
MAS5 faced, other than the statement that it could motivate an increase in the SVR 
 though on the other measure it is not consistent with an increase in funding costs.
The internal discussion paper also refers to increases in costs of wholesale funding  
though noting this is a small proportion of the overall funding profile, it does say that 
the cost of renewing the expiring part of this small proportion is significantly higher 
than in the past.
And the paper concludes In short a 50bps [0.5%] increased SVR rate could be 
rationalised as reflective of an increasing cost base. But this analysis seems to have 
been carried out in December 2011, and in fact, the SVR was increased by 0.75% in 
March 2011.
This is the extent of the evidence MAS5 has provided for 2011. I have no evidence of 
the actual decision that was made at the time other than the single bullet point in the 
March 2011 summary document. The third-party analysis paper does not provide 
direct evidence, and its analysis of the wider marker supports the view that there was 
not significant pressure on MAS5s funding costs at this point  in submissions to our 
service these costs do not appears to have been analysed separately from those of 
the wider group, and I note that the third-party analysis doesnt address MAS5s own audited accounts in its analysis. The internal paper from December 2011 is a 
retrospective justification, itself limited in evidence, and not in my view evidence that 
at the time it was taken the decision to increase the SVR was based on, or justified 
by, increases in funding costs.
Ive also considered other information available to me, including that which is in the 
public domain. Ive cited above the Bank of England report which noted the 
increasing difference between base rate and funding costs extending to 2011  but 
this is only evidence of broad market trends, not specific funding pressures on MAS5.
In its submissions in the earlier case one of our investigators upheld, MAS5 cited a 
reduction in the groups net interest margin around this time. Net interest margin (in 
very simple terms) is an expression of the difference between income from interest 
on lending and expenditure on interest on deposits, and is to that extent a measure 
of financial health and profitability.
This does tend to support the suggestion that there was pressure on retail deposits at 
a group level  though as Ive said above this wasnt reflected in the documents from 
the time.
And in any case, MAS5 as an entity did not hold deposits (but did separate its costs 
out from those parts of the wider group that did in its accounts) so in my view this is 
of limited relevance. The third-party analysis also concludes that pressure on retail 
deposits funds does not explain the increase in the SVR at this time.
Ive also considered MAS5s annual accounts, filed at Companies House, for this 
period. Ive set out above, in the section on 2009, what in my view those accounts 
show. And based on what Ive said, I think its fair to conclude that what MAS5 
reported in its annual accounts each year accurately represented its own financial 
position  including its costs of funds. And that those costs were separate and 
identifiable at the time  notwithstanding that MAS5 now says they were subsumed 
within group costs.
Based on the accounts, MAS5 appears to be funded substantially by securitisation 
(along with a low-rate loan to its parent company). It does not appear to have been 
exposed to wholesale funding pressures (which in any case according to the 
documents it has provided were a small part of overall group costs at this time  so 
are unlikely to have had a significant impact on MAS5). And the documents MAS5 
has provided and its recent third-party analysis show that the increase cant be 
explained by the cost of retail deposits either.
That leaves securitisation as the driver of MAS5s costs. The accounts filed by MAS5 
at the time bear this out  with costs associated with securitisation making up the 
large part of its expenditure (along with payments on a low rate loan from the parent 
group).
Over time, the accounts show both that MAS5s assets declined, and so did the 
balance of, and interest payments to, the deemed loan. And this is not surprising, 
since MAS5 was not taking on new business and some existing mortgages would be 
repaid each year.
What the accounts also show, however, is that the interest payments were declining 
not just in absolute terms, but also in proportion to the value of MAS5s assets.At the time it filed these accounts, MAS5 was required to do so on the basis that its 
assets, liabilities, income and expenditure were separate from those of the wider 
group. It had no option  for example  to treat the liabilities of a legally distinct entity 
(for example, another company within the group) as its own. Even if funding costs 
were managed over the group as a whole, those costs appear to have been 
apportioned out across the firms in the group in the annual accounts each filed. And 
it appears that in the specific case of MAS5, since its lending was securitised, largely 
in 2008, its own exposure to wholesale funding from sources other than securitisation 
was negligible.
MAS5s own evidence makes clear that new securitisations and re-securitisations of 
the sorts of sub-prime lending held in the MAS5 book wasnt possible following the 
global financial crisis. So I am not satisfied that the costs of securitisation to MAS5 
changed over this period. The accounts make this clear, as in the notes on Related 
Party Disclosures that itemise the securitisations under MAS5s liabilities each year, 
showing that (i) there were no new securitisations during the period in question, and 
(ii) the amount outstanding under each securitisation actually reduced year on year 
as a result of mortgage repayments.
On the face of the accounts therefore, the cost of funds appears to be reducing each 
year, in both absolute and relative terms. For example, in 2009 the interest expense 
was 3.5% of MAS5s overall assets, but in subsequent years that fell  2.4% in 2010, 
1.9% in 2011 and 1.8% in 2012.
In support of that, the third-party analysis MAS5 has provided says that MAS5s costs 
were reducing at that point. I reproduce here a graph from the paper illustrating the 
trend:
Note  although the graph refers to MAS5 average funding costs, the 
accompanying text suggests that the figure is actually for the group as a 
whole. But since MAS5 has sought to say that the SVR increase was related 
to group funding costs, this does not support its case that those costs were 
increasing at this time.
Taking all that into account, Im not persuaded that MAS5 has provided sufficient 
evidence to show that its decision to increase the SVR in 2011 was for one of the 
reasons set out in the contract. It has provided very little in the way of 
contemporaneous evidence of or justification for the decision it took at the time. The 
third-party analysis  which is not contemporaneous, but was prepared recently as 
part of MAS5s response to this complaint  shows some support for there being 
wider funding pressures in the mortgage market at this time, but little support for that 
feeding through to pressures on MAS5s own costs.
And the evidence of MAS5s annual accounts filed at the time shows that any 
pressure on costs of funds the wider group may have experienced did not feed 
through to MAS5 itself, since the reported expenditure and liability does not show 
such an impact.
Whether or not the wider group experienced increased pressure on the cost of funds, 
(which the chart above suggests was not the case) it wouldnt in my view be in line 
with the terms and conditions for MAS5 to increase its SVR because of changes to 
cost of funds of the wider group  when the evidence of the accounts shows that 
even if there was that increased pressure, it was not reflected in the costs MAS5 
reported at the time.
And even if it could be said that the only reason that MAS5 did not itself face 
pressure on its costs of funds was due to how the wider group was structured, that is 
how MAS5s parent chose to structure its business. Condition 3.1(b) only allows for 
changes to the cost of our (that is, MAS5 and MAS5 alone) funds to be used as 
justification for varying the SVR. MAS5s customers did not enter into a contract that 
allowed MAS5 to vary the SVR to reflect the costs of funds of legally distinct 
companies.
I note that MAS5 disputes the calculation above  For example, in 2009 the interest 
expense was 3.5% of MAS5s overall assets, but in subsequent years that fell  2.4% in 
2010, 1.9% in 2011 and 1.8% in 2012. The figures quoted were based on a comparison of 
the interest expense as a proportion of the loan book. Even adding back to the interest 
expense the accounting adjustment referred to as the adjustment to the carrying value of 
the deemed loan, though, the same trend can be seen. In 2009, the percentage is 3.85%, in 
2010 it is 2.71%, in 2011 2.35% and in 2012 2.25%. If the costs paid by MAS5 as a result of 
the securitisations (net of its receipts from them) are to be taken as MAS5s cost of funds, 
therefore, the cost is falling year on year. 
In respect of the increase in 2012, I said:
I have been provided with a paper from March 2012 to the Co-op group board which 
sets out the considerations which led to the decision to increase the SVR from May 
2012. The paper shows that by this time the Co-op group managed its mortgages in 
two tranches. These were prime mortgages mainly lent directly by Britannia and The 
Co-op, and sub-prime and specialist mortgages (the Optimum portfolio) mainly lent 
by other parts of the group, or by other lenders and then acquired by the group. This 
latter tranche includes the MAS5 mortgages, one of which was Mr and Mrs Bs.
On this occasion, it was proposed to increase the SVR by a further 0.5%. The paper 
records that the justification for the increase was cost of funding, primarily driven by 
trends in wholesale funding. However, the discussion of costs is very short. It simply 
notes that in the past these loans were funded by securitisation, but that this has not 
been possible since 2007. The paper notes that were securitisation to be possible in 2012, the costs would be likely to be 4-5% above LIBOR, based on trends in the 
secondary market, but that securitisation was not possible at this time.
There is no discussion in the paper of what other funding mechanisms were 
proposed to be used, given that securitisation was not possible, or what the impact of 
the costs of those mechanisms would be. It simply records that A 50bps [0.5%] 
increased SVR rate is reflective of an increasing cost base. But other than noting the 
hypothetical costs of an impossible securitisation, it gives no indication of what that 
increasing cost base is or how it relates to the need for an increase of 0.5% in the 
SVR. And the costs and justification are not broken down to firm level  only to the 
prime and specialist parts of the group.
I also note that it appears from MAS5s accounts that its loan business was 
securitised by 2008 and not re-securitised between then and 2012. And so even if, 
hypothetically, it would have cost more to re-securitise its loan book, this is not 
relevant to its actual costs at this time.
I also have a summary note, recording the decision reached, which summarises the 
reasons for the decision, noting that since the last SVR change, funding costs have 
increased, which will be addressed by this rate change.
MAS5 has not put forward any further evidence regarding the 2012 rate increase. On 
balance, Im not persuaded that it has shown evidence, beyond the contemporary 
record of an assertion that it was so, that cost of funding had increased at this time. 
Ive taken into account what MAS5 has said about the passage of time. But it has 
provided more detailed evidence in respect of the 2009 changes. I dont think its 
likely it would have retained 2009 evidence but not 2012 evidence. And so I think its 
likely MAS5 has now provided what existed at the time it made this decision.
The third-party analysis also covers this period. It concludes that the SVR increase 
cannot be explained by increases in the cost of securitisation and cannot be 
explained by increases in retail funding costs, since these were stable at the time. It 
does note that on one measure wholesale funding costs had risen since the last SVR 
increase, though on the other measure they had fallen. It concludes that the gap 
between funding costs and the SVR had fallen since 2011, supporting an increase to 
the SVR to reduce pressure on the interest margin, though it also notes that a 
decrease in the other measure of funding costs is not consistent with an increase.
I dont find the third-party analysis persuasive in support of MAS5s own position at 
this time. It has not closely analysed MAS5s funding costs specifically, or even those 
of the wider Co-op group. It has merely noted general trends in the wider market and 
found that there is some support for the suggestion that MAS5s (or the groups) 
costs may therefore have increased at this time  though only on one measure of 
one type of funding cost. Ive noted that the terms and conditions allow MAS5 to 
increase the SVR where it reasonably expects funding costs to increase (whether or 
not that reasonable expectation later comes to pass).
Therefore there does not need to have been an actual increase in costs of funding  
provided MAS5 reasonably expected one to occur. However, Ive not seen any 
evidence that MAS5 had such a reasonable expectation at this time.
At the heart of this part of my provisional decision, therefore, was what I saw as being the 
inconsistency between the case MAS5 has made  that it experienced increases in the cost of funds it used at the relevant time justifying the increases to the SVR  on the one hand; 
and the available evidence  the lack of specific contemporaneous evidence for an increase 
specifically in those costs, and the evidence of the statutory accounts suggesting there was 
no such increase  on the other hand.
MAS5 does not agree with either the weight I attached to, or the interpretation I put on, its 
statutory accounts. 
In response to my provisional decision, MAS5 provided more detail about the specific 
funding arrangements it said MAS5 and the wider group had in place at the relevant times. 
MAS5 has explained that when the Britannia group acquired the mortgages which included 
Mr and Mrs Bs from GMAC, legal title to the mortgages was placed in MAS5 and MAS5 
acted thereafter as the lender and the counterparty to the mortgage contract.
But the benefit of the mortgages was transferred on to five other entities, also within the 
group  three warehouse facilities and two securitisation vehicles. MAS5 describes these 
transfers as a sale  the inverted commas are MAS5s own  but since MAS5 retained 
legal title to the mortgages and continued to act as lender and as counterparty to the 
mortgage terms and conditions, I understand that it is referring to a transfer of the beneficial 
interest in the loan book to other entities within the group (while the loans remained on 
MAS5s balance sheet and it retained legal title). 
This is the tranche of loans captured under the heading securitisations in the table in my 
provisional decision, reproduced above.
Each of those five entities were separate firms in their own right, and each was part of the 
wider Britannia (later Co-op) group. It seems the intention was to offer the loans via 
securitisation to investors in the open market, but that was not possible because of the 
impact of the global financial crisis and instead they were retained within the group and used 
as collateral for the groups other activities. 
The warehouse facilities funded their acquisition through loans from third party commercial 
funders at LIBOR plus an additional margin, as well as a smaller loan from Britannia, also at 
LIBOR plus an additional margin (later extended to repay part of the external lending). 
Following the global financial crisis, MAS5 says that short term funding of the sort previously 
used by the warehouse facilities pending securitisation was no longer available and as those 
external funding lines expired (and could not be replaced by securitisation on the open 
market, also because of the crisis) they were replaced by an intra-group loan facility.
The securitisation vehicles funded their acquisition through a combination of loans and debt 
notes. The loans were lent by Britannia at LIBOR plus margin, and the notes were also 
issued at LIBOR plus margin and held by Britannia (later The Co-op) to use as collateral in 
wider activities as  because of the global financial crisis  they could not be offered to 
investors on the open market.
MAS5 says that the majority of the funding of the five entities was from intra-group rather 
than external sources. Both funding streams were at set margins over LIBOR which did not 
change over time (save for the re-financing of some of the external funding as it expired). It 
notes that over the relevant period the group did not increase the margin over LIBOR on the 
intra-group funding at a time when margins over LIBOR charged to the group by external 
funding sources were increasing substantially. 
This is borne out by the third party analysis, which refers to pressures in marginal funding 
costs at group level. MAS5 therefore says that what it calls the nominal cost of funding 
MAS5s mortgages does not reflect market rates at the time. It says this measure of cost of funding relies on the intra-group loans provided by the group 
to the entities that held the beneficial interest in the MAS5 mortgages. The group provided 
lending on these terms  that is, at the margins above LIBOR the group initially set  as 
standard practice before during and after the global financial crisis, including throughout the 
period of the 2009-12 SVR variations. Indeed, this stayed in place until the MAS5 loans were 
moved off balance sheet through external securitisation in 2015.
MAS5 says that while this was the marginal rate nominally charged on an intra-group basis, 
it would have been impossible for MAS5 (or the entities which held the benefit of its 
mortgages) to raise funds at that margin on the open markets. It says that in previous 
intra-group arrangements a higher margin had been charged, and it cant now explain why it 
was reduced before the MAS5 arrangements were put in place. And it said that because of 
the mis-match between the short-term nature of LIBOR and the long-term nature of the 
mortgage book, a term premium would normally be added to cost of funding  but again this 
wasnt done.
MAS5 says that with the passage of time, its not now entirely clear why the group set the 
intra-group funding arrangements at such a low cost rather than a cost more reflective of 
wider commercial realities. But it says there is no requirement to fully apportion and reflect 
group costs across the accounts of subsidiaries, and adopting a single loan rate allowed a 
more administratively simple basis for the reporting required of the various legal entities. And 
the reality is that it cost the group more to fund each entity than was apportioned to the entity 
via the terms of the intra-group arrangements. 
MAS5 says that, in reality, the group did not approach its funding costs on a legal entity 
basis  that is, separating out and managing funding for each separate firm within the group. 
Rather, at group level funding costs were managed on a segment basis; that is, the group  
for example  treated all mortgages of a certain type together. Across the various firms in the 
group, there were prime retail mortgages and sub-prime mortgages (the latter, which the 
group calls the Optimum segment, is the segment which includes MAS5), and the group 
managed its funding across those segments. Group level accounts  the reporting of the 
parent company  show this approach to funding. But until 2016 (when the taxation regime 
changed), there was no need for the group to revise its approach to better reflect the actual 
cost to the group in the nominal apportionment via the intra-group loans reported in the 
accounts of each entity. So in practice there was no need for the group to ensure the intra-
group arrangements reflected wider commercial realities and it did not do so. But those 
wider commercial realities still existed. 
MAS5 says the evidence from the time of its internal discussions and board and discussion 
papers shows that the group did consider there to be an increase in cost of funding at the 
relevant time; that that increase impacted the segment of the groups business which 
included MAS5, and therefore that the increases to the SVR were justified as reflecting 
increases or anticipated increases in the cost of funds MAS5 used in its mortgage lending 
business. The changes to cost of funding were actually incurred, even if the accounting 
within the group wasnt adjusted.
In respect of the limited external funding direct to the entities Ive mentioned above, this was 
largely in place before the financial crisis and not renewed on expiry. And MAS5 says the 
particular entity concerned was only able to access funding on such relatively good 
commercial terms because of the wider credit rating of the group as a whole  again 
illustrating the inter-connected nature of funding arrangements across the group.
MAS5 also says that under banking rules, the Co-op Bank as the parent company was 
required to report on a segment basis  a requirement that didnt apply to the entities within 
the group. In its own accounts, therefore, the Co-op Bank reported on the sub-prime segment (including, but not limited to, MAS5). This reporting was not based on the 
intra-group loans reported in the accounts of each constituent entity, but rather on 
transactions between segments (rather than legal entities  each segment might be several 
legal entities, or only include part of a legal entity). 
Using the accounts filed by MAS5 and the other five entities, its possible to calculate the 
interest margin (a measure of the difference between income and expenditure) on the MAS5 
book. Using the Co-op Banks accounts, its also possible to calculate the interest margin on 
the segment that included MAS5, and to isolate a figure specifically for MAS5 on a pro rata 
basis from the wider segment.
These calculations show that the interest margin for the segment as a whole as derived from 
the accounts of the individual entities was significantly higher than the interest margin 
derived from the segment reporting in the group accounts. The entity interest margin 
increased year on year between 2009 and 2012, but the group reporting interest margin 
decreased over the same period.
MAS5 says that, since the interest income is the same in both the entity and group accounts, 
the difference is because the interest expense reported in the group accounts is substantially 
higher than that recorded in the entity accounts. It says this further demonstrates that the 
entity accounts, based on the intra-group loans, do not reflect the reality of the funding costs 
incurred at group level in respect of this segment of mortgages.
MAS5s submissions on this part of the case end thus:
In conclusion, whilst MAS 5s financial statements may not provide direct evidence 
of an increase in cost of funding, reviewing them in isolation leads to an 
unrepresentative view that is not reflective of how the Group actually funded the 
mortgages held by MAS 5 (and the Optimum portfolio more generally). It does not 
seem reasonable to conclude that the cost of funding MAS 5s mortgages reduced 
over time when the statutory intercompany funding arrangements that at face value 
funded MAS 5s mortgages did not fully reflect the underlying commercial funding 
costs that the parent company would have had to incur in refinancing the underlying 
funding liabilities on its own balance sheet in a stressed market.
In summary, therefore, MAS5s argument seems to me to present three alternatives:
There was an increase in the MAS5s cost of funding its mortgage lending business; 
or
The cost of funds of the five entities should be taken to be the cost of funds of MAS5, 
and those costs increased; or
The cost of funds of the wider group increased, and MAS5s cost of funds should be 
understood as being part of that wider group increase  since MAS5 was part of the 
wider group and treated as such, and since if MAS5s own costs viewed in isolation 
did not increase, that was only because the group had chosen to structure itself in 
that way. It could have adopted an alternative structure that did result in increases 
being passed on to MAS5.
Ive carefully considered these arguments, and the supporting evidence MAS5 has provided. 
But for the reasons I have given above, Im not persuaded by its approach to clause 3.1(b). I 
think condition 3.1(b) is clear. There has to be a change in MAS5s own cost of funding. The costs MAS5 is required to pay must change (or be anticipated to change) for it to change 
what it in turn charges its customers to cover those costs. 
The evidence of the accounts shows that even if the costs of funding the five entities did 
change, there was no relationship between the cost of funding them and the cost of funds 
MAS5 incurred in its mortgage lending business. The evidence shows that MAS5s own cost 
of funds  the liabilities it incurred in funding its mortgage lending business  did not change 
over this period. And while this may be because MAS5 or the wider group had previously 
decided to structure its business in such a way that MAS5 was not exposed to wider 
changes in group cost of funds, the fact is that this was the case, and whether or not there 
were wider commercial benefits of operating in this way isnt relevant to what condition 
3.1(b) itself means. Condition 3.1(b) only entitles MAS5 to change the SVR if its cost of 
funds change or are reasonably expected to change; it does not entitle MAS5 to change the 
SVR because it considers that in a hypothetical alternative business model that it could have 
adopted (but didnt), its cost of funding would have been different.
I also note that MAS5s own evidence shows that, on the facts of the case, the cost of 
funding of the five entities did not increase over the period from 2009 to 2012. So in order to 
find that there was an increase in the cost of funding MAS5s mortgage lending business if 
those costs were represented by the five entities, I would have to accept that MAS5 was 
entitled to look to changes which were at least two removes from MAS5. The evidence 
shows MAS5s cost of funding did not increase; the evidence shows the cost of funding the 
five entities did not increase. What may have changed is the cost of funding at group level  
but that was not passed on to MAS5, either directly or via the five entities. If there was such 
a change, that is in my view too remote to come within the scope of condition 3.1 (b) and not 
something that could have been in the contemplation of the parties at the time the contract 
was entered into. 
As I explain in more detail below, therefore, Im not persuaded that the conditions for MAS5 
exercising condition 3.1(b) to change the SVR were met in 2009, 2011 or 2012.
Im satisfied that the evidence does show that there was some funding pressure at group 
level  including the evidence of the parent company accounts for the same period as well 
as the board and discussion papers and internal documents MAS5 has supplied. MAS5 
accepts that MAS5s accounts dont provide evidence of an increase in the cost of funding its 
mortgage business. But it says that should not be determinative of the issue  because the 
accounts dont reflect the wider commercial reality of the situation, and were not required to 
do so.
MAS5, as a legal entity in its own right, had a statutory obligation to report its financial 
position in its statutory accounts. And this is therefore relevant primary evidence of its 
financial position at the relevant time, and Im satisfied its reasonable to take the accounts 
into consideration.
MAS5 was part of a wider group. I accept that the group approached funding at the group or 
segment, rather than entity, level  that much is confirmed by the group accounts from the 
time, as well as other material such as a statutory declaration prepared for an unrelated 
matter in 2010. 
But, as I said above, in order to meet the requirements of condition 3.1 (b), whats required is 
a change in the costs of funding MAS5s mortgage business which are incurred by MAS5 
itself. That requires a change to the cost of funds MAS5 itself is liable for  whether a 
change in the costs of obtaining finance on the open market itself, or a change in what it is 
required to pay under intra-group funding arrangements because those other group entities 
pass changes in their own funding costs on to MAS5. If another group entity experiences a change in its own cost of funds (which it uses in turn to 
fund MAS5) but absorbs that change rather than pass it on to MAS5 via changes in the 
intra-group arrangements, I am not satisfied that can be properly characterised as a change 
in the cost of funds used by MAS5 in its mortgage lending business for the purposes of 
condition 3.1 (b). What is required is a change in the costs borne by MAS5 itself. I am not 
persuaded that a distinction can be drawn between the costs of funds that MAS5 uses and 
what it is liable to pay as the costs of funding its business. MAS5s accounts set out its 
liabilities and expenditure; those are the costs of funding its mortgage lending business.  
If the group passed on any changes in wider cost of funding, either for the group as a whole, 
or for that segment of it which included MAS5, then its reasonable to expect that those 
changes in cost of funding would be reflected in MAS5s own financial statements. They 
would form part of MAS5s liabilities and expenditure. But the accounts do not reflect this, 
and it appears from the accounts that the cost of funds used by MAS5 in its mortgage 
lending business were broadly static.
I note MAS5 says there was no obligation, under the relevant rules applying to banking 
financing or as a matter of company law, for the group to break down its funding costs in that 
way  such that they were accurately apportioned between the constituent entities within the 
group.
And I accept that. But in my view thats not the end of the matter. MAS5 also had obligations 
under the specific terms and conditions of the mortgages it took over from GMAC  including 
Mr and Mrs Bs. The terms and conditions are clear that its only if the cost of funds MAS5 
itself uses to fund its business change that condition 3.1 (b) can be relied on to change the 
interest rate. 
Those terms and conditions were not entered into by MAS5. They were drawn up by GMAC 
and entered into by GMAC and its customers before the transfer to MAS5, and likely before 
the transfer to MAS5 was contemplated. But as the transferee MAS5 is bound by them, 
whether or not they reflect how the group MAS5 is part of has chosen to organise its 
business.
If MAS5 is right that the cost of funding the Optimum segment increased, the group would 
need to pass those increases on to MAS5 before condition 3.1 (b) could be triggered. 
I dont think, therefore, that the cost of funding the Optimum segment or the group as a 
whole justified the increase to the MAS5 SVR as far as the terms of the contract are 
concerned. MAS5 appears to accept that the group did not pass on those changes to MAS5, 
because there was no change to MAS5s own obligations or the broader intra-group funding 
arrangements  notwithstanding the commercial realities the group faced at the time. 
I dont think thats enough for me to conclude that there was a change in the cost of funds 
MAS5 itself used in MAS5s mortgage lending business. 
The group had chosen to structure itself in a particular way. On MAS5s case, the 
consequence of that was that MAS5 was shielded from the wider commercial realities of the 
cost of funding mortgage lending because the group maintained intra-group funding 
arrangements at an artificially low level and did not increase them either to reflect increased 
costs faced by the group, or to reflect the commercial reality of what it would have cost the 
parts of the group funded in that way to instead raise funds on the open market. 
But if the effect of the groups choice to operate in that way was that it put itself in a position 
where increased cost of funds more broadly were not directly passed on to MAS5, it follows 
that MAS5 could not rely on condition 3.1(b) to increase the SVR when the costs of funds MAS5 itself used in funding its mortgage lending business had, as a result, not changed in 
the same way.
MAS5 or the group could have structured its business in such a way that MAS5 was directly 
exposed to commercial funding costs  and therefore entitled to rely on condition 3.1 (b) 
when those costs changed. But the fact that it chose not to do so means that it is not so 
entitled; and it is no argument to say that condition 3.1(b) could have been engaged if 
funding arrangements were different. The fact is, they werent. 
Im therefore not persuaded by what I understand to be MAS5s suggestion, at least 
implicitly, that I should consider the arrangements MAS5 might have had to make if it had 
needed to source funds directly in determining whether condition 3.1(b) was satisfied when 
MAS5 varied the SVR. Condition 3.1(b) does not allow MAS5 to change the SVR to reflect 
changes that did not occur but might have occurred had MAS5 structured itself in a different 
way. It only permits MAS5 to vary the SVR to reflect changes in the cost of funding its 
mortgage lending business  that is, the costs it itself is liable to pay. Nevertheless, as I 
explain further below, Ive taken this into account in determining whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case. 
Im therefore satisfied that its necessary to review MAS5s financial statements as part of 
considering whether MAS5 acted within the terms and conditions when increasing the SVR 
in 2009 to 2012. And Im further satisfied that if the evidence  of the accounts or otherwise 
 shows that MAS5 itself did not face changes in the cost of funds it used in its mortgage 
lending business, that cannot be remedied by pointing to increases that the group could 
have, but didnt, pass on to MAS5.
Ill turn now to the evidence and whether it shows that MAS5 did in fact experience (or 
reasonably anticipated that it would experience) changes in the cost of the funding it used at 
the relevant times.
I referred in my provisional decision, in the extracts quoted above, to the more recent 
analysis of the third party MAS5 provided in support of its wider position. In response to my 
provisional decision, the third party has provided some commentary on my findings  that 
commentary largely confirms that I interpreted the analysis correctly. 
But it also says that the third party proceeded on the basis that MAS5 was funded at group 
level, as it was instructed by MAS5 that this was the case  with regards to group funding 
costs we have been informed that this was the basis of MAS5s funding and therefore it is 
not feasible or appropriate to attempt to analyse any MAS5-specific funding costs that is 
distinct from those for the group as a whole.
Ive said that Im satisfied that the terms and conditions mean that it is necessary to analyse 
MAS5-specific funding costs. Changes in group level funding are only relevant to the extent 
that MAS5 was itself subject to them (for example, because MAS5 was required to pay one 
of the five securitisation entities an equivalent increase). 
And for that reason, the third party analysis is of limited value to my consideration of this 
complaint  because the third party did not attempt to analyse MAS5 specific funding costs, 
having been instructed by MAS5 that it was not funded on that basis. The report is of value 
in considering the funding pressures the group may have been subjected to  though its 
largely a retrospective analysis of that  but it is of limited value in deciding whether those 
cost pressures were passed to MAS5 such that they represented a change (or anticipated 
change) in the cost of funds MAS5 used in its mortgage lending business.Ive also considered the further evidence MAS5 has provided about its own position. Ive 
referred above to the five entities to which MAS5 sold the beneficial interest in the 
mortgages it continued to hold legal title to. Its not clear whether or not Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage was included in this cohort  most but not all of MAS5s mortgages were  but I 
dont think that makes a substantial difference to the broader point that (as I set out in the 
table in my provisional decision, above)  treating the securitisations and its intra-group loan 
as the sources of funding to MAS5  MAS5s liabilities were the net payments it was 
required to make to the five entities and the payments falling due under the LIBOR-linked 
loan owed to its parent company.
Ive set out above what MAS5 has said about how the five entities were in turn funded  by a 
mix of low rate external loans and intra-group lending, and debt notes, all at margins over 
LIBOR.
MAS5 says  for reasons it cant now explain, with the passage of time  the group set the 
intra-group funding margins charged to the five entities at an artificially low level and did not 
increase those margins when the group as a whole faced increased funding pressure 
following the financial crisis. As a result, the intra-group funding arrangements did not reflect 
the commercial reality faced by the group  either in the funding pressures the group as a 
whole did face, or what the entities would have faced had they sought to refinance the 
intra-group funding on the open market rather than from the group. The same is true of 
MAS5s own LIBOR-linked loan from its parent company; the margin over LIBOR did not 
change even when external funding margins over LIBOR increased following the global 
financial crisis.
The intra-group funding arrangements that MAS5 refers to  which it says were at artificially 
low margins over LIBOR compared to what would have been obtainable on the open market, 
and compared to what it cost the group to obtain the funds used in those arrangements  are 
the costs paid by the five entities to the wider group. MAS5 refers me to those funding 
arrangements because it sold (MAS5s quotation marks) much of its mortgage book to 
those entities.
Ive already said that its necessary to consider what the funding arrangements for MAS5 
actually were, not what they might have been had the group chosen to structure or fund itself 
in a different way. Whether or not there was some commercial advantage to the group in 
operating in this way, or whether it simply wasnt something the group considered changing 
at the time, I dont think that has any relevance to the issue of what the contract permitted. 
As Ive said, whats important are the actual costs of funding MAS5 faced (and changes to 
those costs). The reasons why the group chose to structure itself in this way, and chose not 
to change the intra-group arrangements over time, dont change the reality of what the cost 
of funds actually borne by MAS5 was.
But in any case I dont think that the cost of funding faced by the five entities was the cost of 
funding used by MAS5. The sale is the transfer of the beneficial interest in MAS5s 
mortgages to the five entities, MAS5 retaining legal title. And the cost of funding of the five 
entities is the cost of the funds they used to purchase the beneficial interests of the various 
mortgages they securitised, including those of MAS5, in the form of loans and debt notes. 
But that is the cost of the purchase of those beneficial interests by the entities, not the cost 
of funds MAS5 used in its mortgage lending business. 
The five entities did not therefore provide loans or funds to MAS5, other than as 
consideration for the purchase of the beneficial interest (which gave rise to a deemed loan 
recorded in MAS5s accounts because it retained continuing economic risks and benefits 
under the terms of the securitisations). After the sale, MAS5 was obliged to pay over the money received from customers in respect of those mortgages to the five entities, receiving 
some of it back as deferred consideration. 
MAS5s ongoing liability to the five entities was solely to pay over to them the income 
received from customers. In other words, its liability to the entities was determined by the 
returns received from its mortgage book, not by the cost of funding of the five entities for 
their acquisition of the beneficial interest or the costs the five entities were required to pay 
under intra-group funding arrangements.
In MAS5s accounts, the deemed loan which is the largest liability on its balance sheet is, 
in effect, the value of the expected receipts from the mortgages securitised into the five 
entities, which MAS5 will be required to pay to the entities over the lifetime of those 
mortgages  with the income in any given year forming part of the interest expense which 
is the largest item of expenditure, subject to the deferred consideration repayable from the 
five entities in respect of interest expense payments which exceed the five entities own 
costs.
MAS5 has explained how the five entities were funded, through the intra-group funding 
arrangements at margin over LIBOR Ive explained above. But it hasnt shown that the five 
entities passed their cost of funding on to MAS5. 
MAS5s own liabilities were a loan from the group at 1 month LIBOR plus 0.21%, and the 
obligation to pass on the interest expense to the five entities. The amount of the interest 
expense was determined by the amount received in mortgage payments from customers, 
not by the funding costs of the five entities. 
And even though in certain circumstances part of the interest expense was rebated to 
MAS5 in the form of the deferred consideration, the amount of the deferred consideration 
 or even whether it is payable at all  depends on (according to MAS5s accounts) whether 
and the extent to which the interest paid over exceeds the administration costs of each 
mortgage book. 
Its important to note too that MAS5s own submissions, which refer to the funding costs of 
the five entities rather than of MAS5 itself on the basis that the five entities bought the 
MAS5 mortgages, dont show there was an increase in cost of funds. MAS5s own analysis 
of the blended cost of funding of the various funding streams involved shows a fall 
throughout 2009  when the first SVR increase happened  followed by a small and slow 
increase (less than 0.5% over more than two years) between 2009 and 2011 which fell back 
in 2012. So if the funding costs of the five entities as shown in these submissions had 
represented the cost of funds used by MAS5 in its mortgage lending business  which Im 
not persuaded of  then on MAS5s own evidence, the increases in the SVR did not reflect 
increases in that cost of funds. 
And MAS5 accepts this  it invites me to conclude first that the cost of funding the five 
entities was the cost of funding MAS5s mortgage lending business, and second that the 
increases in the SVR were justified because the intra-group arrangements it chose to put in 
place didnt reflect the true commercial reality. But Im not persuaded that the changes to the 
cost of funding the five entities was the same as changes to the cost of funds MAS5 used to 
fund its mortgage business. 
And even if that was the case, I dont think its appropriate to consider what the group could 
have done  but didnt  when thinking about whether MAS5 acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions. Its necessary to think about what actually happened, not what could 
have happened had a different approach been taken.Taking all that into account, Im not persuaded by what MAS5 says about the intra-group 
funding arrangements and their relationship to the funding pressures faced at group level 
amounting to the cost of funds used by MAS5 in MAS5s mortgage lending business, for 
any and all of the following reasons:
The five entities were funded at fixed margins over LIBOR, and those margins did not 
change over time (other than the re-financing of some external loans into intra-group 
funding).
Changes to group fundings costs  other than variations in the LIBOR rate  were not 
passed on to the five entities in the form of re-financing or changing the margin of 
the intra-group funding arrangements.
As MAS5s own submissions show, the result was that the five entities cost of 
funding did not change over time to an extent that justifies the SVR increases even if 
those costs could be said to be MAS5s costs.
While that may be because the intra-group funding arrangements were set at what 
MAS5 now says was an artificially low level compared to the commercial reality the 
group faced at the time, and compared to what it would have cost the entities to 
replace that funding on the open market, the group chose to manage its finances in 
that way. When deciding whether  under the terms of the contract  condition 3.1 
(b) was engaged, I can only consider the cost of funds MAS5 actually used in its 
mortgage lending business, not what might have happened had the wider group 
chosen to arrange its business in a different way.
In any case, the five entities did not in turn pass on their own cost of funding to 
MAS5. 
MAS5s liability to the entities was determined by the payments received from its 
customers, not the cost of funding the five entities. 
The transfer of the beneficial interest to the five entities meant that the five entities 
gave MAS5 consideration up-front in return for the right to receive payments from 
the customers of those mortgages, subject to the deferred consideration rebate. 
How those entities raised and funded the costs of that transfer, or any of their other 
operating costs, has no impact on MAS5s liability to pay over interest received from 
customers, or the extent of that liability. If the group had  which it didnt  changed 
the funding arrangements of the five entities, that would have had no impact on the 
amount MAS5 was liable to pay the entities.  
The closest linkage between the cost of funding of the five entities and MAS5 itself is 
the deferred consideration rebated to MAS5, but that is relatively small and only 
indirectly linked (if at all) to the cost of funds of the five entities. And it does not 
impact or change the amount MAS5 is required to pay over to the five entities or the 
relationship between them  it merely affects the extent to which the entities are 
entitled to retain all of that interest expense  and is offset against the total deemed 
loan. 
Even if the cost of funding of the five entities is linked to MAS5s cost of funding via 
the deemed consideration (and its not clear that it is in any significant way), that 
did not form part of MAS5s considerations at the time of the SVR increases, or the 
case it has made now.
In any case, the deferred consideration does not justify the increases in the SVR in 2009, 2011 or 2012. The following shows the change in deferred consideration 
over the relevant period, compared to the size of the loan book in which the five 
entities had a beneficial interest (as measured by the size of the deemed loan).
Accounting year 
(ends 31 
December)Deferred 
considerationDeemed loan Ratio
2008 £13.5 million £2,261.1 million 0.6%
2009 £13.5 million £2,124.8 million 0.6%
2010 £19.3 million £2,003.6 million 1.0%
2011 £29.4 million £1,863.1 million 1.6%
2012 £27.8 million £1,734.7 million 1.6%
 
It can be seen that the deferred consideration receivable each year increases both in 
absolute terms and as a proportion of the size of the loan book in which the five 
entities hold a beneficial interest. The deferred consideration is a rebate to MAS5 of 
the excess by which the interest paid by MAS5 customers exceeds the administration 
costs of the five entities. But to the extent those costs include the cost of funding of 
the five entities, an increase in the excess receipts which is rebated to MAS5 is not 
consistent with an increase in cost of funding relative to income.
The deferred consideration is also a benefit to MAS5, in that it represents a rebate of 
the sums it was liable to pay the five entities. So an increase in the deferred 
consideration is ultimately a reduction in MAS5s net costs, not an increase. 
For any and all of those reasons, Im not persuaded that the funding arrangements of the 
five entities change my view as to whether the cost of funds used in MAS5s mortgage 
lending business increased. Changes to their funding arrangements, or the cost of those 
arrangements, did not result in changes to MAS5s own costs or liabilities, since their cost of 
funds was not passed on to MAS5. To the limited extent that the deferred consideration 
impacted MAS5s own funding position, the amounts involved are very small, its not clear 
theres a direct or causal link with the five entities cost of funds, and in any case the 
evidence of MAS5s accounts suggests that the amount the five entities were able to rebate 
increased  which does not support an increase in their own cost of funds or MAS5s costs.
I reviewed the contemporaneous evidence, including internal documents and papers, in my 
provisional decision. MAS5 says that there are documents I must have not considered 
because I didnt mention them in my provisional decision  but thats not the case. I 
considered all the evidence provided, even if I didnt consider it necessary to refer to every 
document individually.
Ive included above extracts from my provisional decision which includes my consideration of 
the evidence, and I dont propose to go over it again. MAS5 has referred me to a further 
document, not provided in relation to this complaint but included in its submissions to the 
earlier 2019 complaint  this is a board paper from January 2011 recording the decision to increase the SVR across the segment of the groups business which included MAS5 (the 
Optimum segment). 
The paper records that most of the Optimum segment is on fixed rates or rates linked to 
LIBOR or base rate. Only around 16% of the segment is on SVR  consisting of mortgages 
(such as MAS5s) purchased from GMAC. The paper records that funding costs have 
increased and that the SVR should be increased by 0.75% as a result. It notes that following 
the increase the SVR would still be in line with similar lenders in the market and lower than 
that currently charged by GMAC. 
The paper is supported by the internal email chain I referred to in my provisional decision. 
The start of that email chain discusses the cost of renewing funds on the wholesale markets. 
And it also discusses the challenge of retail funding, as well as regulatory requirements.
Im not persuaded this materially affects the analysis of MAS5s cost of funds in its mortgage 
lending business. MAS5 did not take retail deposits  and even at group level, it was part of 
the Optimum segment not the retail segment. And while the email chain is evidence that the 
group faced wholesale funding cost increases at this time, there needs to be evidence that 
those costs were incurred by MAS5 in some way for there to be evidence of a change in the 
cost of funds MAS5 used in funding MAS5s mortgage lending business.
Having reviewed all the evidence again, I remain of the view that there is evidence that the 
group considered that funding costs were increasing around the time of the decisions to 
increase the SVR in 2011 and 2012. There is less evidence of that in respect of the 2009 
increases, though there is evidence the SVR had fallen to an artificially low level in 2007 and 
2008 because of the effect of the restrictive covenant (Ill discuss the relevance of that 
below).
But those increases, or anticipated increases, at group level dont translate into increases, or 
anticipated increases, specifically in the cost of the funds MAS5 used in its mortgage lending 
business.
By 2008, MAS5s own funding position was stable. It had securitised most of its loan book 
into the five entities (presumably using the consideration received to pay off the costs of 
acquiring the book, since there is no other expenditure to cover this element in the 
accounts). MAS5s only obligations  as recorded in its accounts  were to pay the 
LIBOR-linked loan to its parent company and to pass interest income from its customers to 
the five entities. There were no changes in its funding or other arrangements between then 
and 2015. 
Im therefore satisfied on the evidence available that there is no evidence that MAS5 itself 
faced in an increase in the cost of the funds MAS5 used in funding its mortgage lending 
business. To the extent that the wider group experienced increases, they were not passed 
on to MAS5. 
And for the same reasons, I dont think theres evidence that MAS5 reasonably anticipated 
an increase in the cost of funds it used in its mortgage lending business. There is evidence 
that the group anticipated such a change  but no evidence that the group sought to pass 
any such increase on to MAS5 or that MAS5s own funding arrangements were changed, or 
anticipated to change, as a result. I dont therefore think that it can said that MAS5 
reasonably anticipated changes in the cost of funds it itself used in its own mortgage lending 
business, even if the group reasonably anticipated changes at group level.
It follows that Im not persuaded that, at the relevant times, MAS5 was entitled to increase 
the SVR relying on condition 3.1 (b).The position of MAS5 in the wider market
In its response to my provisional decision, MAS5 also pointed to other factors which it said 
justified the level of SVR it charged. I noted in my provisional decision that if the interest rate 
charged to Mr and Mrs B from 8 November 2016 was reduced as if the 2011 and 2012 
increases had not taken place, the rate would then be broadly in line with the market 
average SVR. 
In its response, I think MAS5 misunderstood the point I was making. I was not suggesting 
that the SVR should be reduced to the market average as an end in itself (that is, that 
charging more than that was not fair and reasonable or because there was any obligation on 
MAS5 to charge no more than the market average). Rather, I noted that the proposed 
reduction would move the rate from a position towards the top of the market to a position 
closer to the average. I did so as a sense check on my proposed redress, noting that if the 
SVR was reduced to remove the ongoing impact of the 2011 and 2012 rises that would not 
result in an artificially low SVR that would amount to an unfair windfall that Mr and Mrs B 
would not have been reasonably able to expect.
In response, MAS5 said this was an unfair approach. Its mortgages are not average 
mortgages, they are specialist sub-prime mortgages  which have higher risk and higher 
funding costs. MAS5 provided a further report from its third party expert on the role of credit 
risk when analysing SVRs. Although the report is premised on the same misunderstanding 
of my provisional decision, and therefore is aimed at rebutting an argument I had not in fact 
made, I have taken it into account. 
The report sets out a series of factors that it says are relevant to the credit risk a lender 
faces, and therefore to its SVR. These include loan to value, loan type, and the typical credit 
scores of a firms borrowers. It provides data on the credit scores of MAS5 customers since 
2016, and compares that with a survey of the UK population carried out in 2021 to show that 
MAS5 customers, in general, had a worse credit position than the UK population as a whole 
between 2016 and 2021. The report says that over 70% of MAS5 mortgages are interest 
only, compared to less than 18% of all UK mortgages. And it says that MAS5 mortgages are 
substantially more likely to be in arrears than mortgages with The Co-operative Bank plc, 
and than mortgages with a series of other lenders. It therefore concludes that MAS5 
mortgages have a significantly higher credit risk than other parts of the mortgage market.
The report also analyses mortgages offered by a range of lenders over time, and concludes 
that products available to borrowers with a history of adverse credit charge an SVR which is 
0.68% to 0.85% higher than the SVR on products not available to borrowers with adverse 
credit. It concludes that a comparison between the MAS5 SVR and the market average is 
therefore not appropriate. 
As I said above, I did not conclude in my provisional decision  and do not conclude here  
that the interest charged to Mr and Mrs B after 8 November 2016 was unfair because it was 
above market average. I concluded it was unfair for other reasons, and then noted that were 
I to require MAS5 to reduce Mr and Mrs Bs interest rate to take into account that unfairness, 
the result would not be an interest rate that was disproportionately low compared to the 
market average. Ill say more about that below.
In the context of the SVR variations between 2009 and 2012, I note that condition 3.1 (c) of 
the terms and conditions allow MAS5 to change the SVR to reflect a change which has 
occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the interest rates charged by other 
mortgage lenders. In its submissions in respect of this complaint, MAS5 says that it relied on condition 3.1 (b) for all four increases between 2009 and 2012. The internal evidence 
from the time  which I accept might not be complete, because of the passage of time  
does not specify the particular contractual provision relied on. The board papers for 2009, for 
example, discuss the rationale for increasing the SVR but do not link that to a particular term 
of the contract. And while the 2012 executive paper quotes the terms of Britannia and The 
Co-operative Bank plc mortgages, it does not cite those of MAS5  though the later board 
paper does say that contracts in the Optimum segment allow changes to the SVR for 
several reasons, including an increase or expected increase in the market costs of funding. 
This is not strictly accurate, since as Ive noted above the MAS5 terms and conditions allow 
a change to reflect changes in the cost of funding MAS5 uses in its mortgage lending 
business, not to reflect changes in market conditions (unless MAS5 is exposed to those 
market conditions). But since MAS5 has been clear in its submissions that it exclusively 
relied on condition 3.1 (b), I have proceeded on that basis. 
The decision paper for May 2009 is largely focused on the position of the MAS5 SVR relative 
to the SVRs of other firms in the group  including other acquired books as well as Britannia 
itself  as well as the then current GMAC SVR. The decision taken was to increase the 
MAS5 SVR (then 2.99%) to match the Britannia SVR (then 4.24%) in two stages. The 
decision was revisited and confirmed in August 2009, ahead of the second stage increase  
with the amendment that the MAS5 SVR should be increased to 4.5% not 4.24% as 
previously planned (taking it to 0.26% above Britannias SVR rather than parity with it). The 
rationale for amending the second increase was to generate further income, and to reflect 
the difference in risk between the MAS5 and Britannia books. 
MAS5 says that this decision was taken because of cost of funds. It says this 
notwithstanding the rationale given in the papers, because the May 2009 paper 
was written at a time with the increased cost of funding was no longer a new 
development. As explained above, BBS [Britannia Building Society] had been under 
pressure as a result of increased funding costs since the onset of the GFC [global 
financial crisis]. The significant development at this point was BBSs ability to react to 
the increased cost of funding due to its re-negotiation of the GMAC Covenant. It was 
accepted that funding costs had increased and it is understandable against the wider 
backdrop of the GFC, the GMAC Covenant and their impact on BBS that the May 
2009 paper is not more explicit in its reference to the increased cost of funds. It is of 
course possible that other documents were created at the time which also explained 
the rationale for the increase but are not available today due to the passage of time.
In essence, therefore, MAS5s submissions are that cost of funding was the reason for the 
2009 increase, but that cost of funding was not the main focus of the May 2009 board paper 
because it went without saying as part of the obvious backdrop of the times. And thats why 
in the discussion above Ive largely focused on the evidence of whether there were in fact in 
changes to the cost of funding MAS5s mortgage lending business.
However, the wider circumstances and context in which MAS5 made the decision to 
increase are relevant to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances in respect of the complaint about the fairness of interest charged from 8 
November 2016. And so Ill say more about this below. 
In respect of the later increases, the January 2011 board paper noted that there had been no 
SVR increases in the specialist lending market  which is the part of the market MAS5 says I 
should consider as the appropriate comparison (rather than the average across the market 
as a whole). The decision taken at this time was to increase the SVR of the Optimum 
segment (including MAS5) only, relying on changes to cost of funding. In 2012, the increase to the MAS5 SVR was part of an increase in SVRs across the group  
including both The Co-operative Bank plc as well as the Optimum segment which included 
MAS5. The decision taken was to increase SVRs across the group by 0.5%. The evidence of 
the time  and MAS5s submissions now  show that the group relied on cost of funding. 
MAS5 also says that its position in the wider market  including that its mortgage book was 
generally more risky than other books  is also relevant to whether its fair and reasonable to 
require it to reduce the interest rate now. The extent to which any redress would result in an 
interest rate below what ought to be expected for a mortgage of this type is a question for 
me to consider when I come to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the fairness of the interest charged from 8 November 2016. 
But it is not relevant to the question of whether MAS5 was entitled under the contract to 
change the SVR for the reasons it did.
The effect of acting outside the terms of the contract
First of all, I remind myself that I am only considering the fairness of the interest rate charged 
from 8 November 2016. I have considered whether the variations to the SVR between 2009 
and 2012 were carried out within the terms and conditions as part of all the circumstances of 
the case. But a complaint about those variations in and of themselves is out of time  they 
are only relevant to the extent that they contributed to the level of the SVR charged in the 
period that is in time.
I have found that in changing the SVR for the reasons it relied on at the time, MAS5 acted in 
a way that was not authorised by the contract because there was no change or anticipated 
change to the cost of funds that MAS5 used to fund its mortgage lending business. 
I therefore need to consider what the effect of that is, as a matter of law, before I can go on 
to consider the extent  if any  to which those circumstances are relevant to whether the 
interest rate charged to Mr and Mrs B from 8 November 2016 was fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Thats because Im required under DISP 3.6.4 R to take into account 
relevant law, among other things, in determining what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
I remind myself of the wording of the term MAS5 relied on in increasing the SVR:
Condition 3.1 of the terms and conditions says:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the 
following reasons:
(a) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar 
body.
This condition limits the circumstances in which MAS5 can vary the SVR. The effect of the 
condition is that MAS5 can only vary the SVR for one of the reasons contained in condition 
3.1  where one of the circumstances set out exists. And even if one of those circumstances 
exists, MAS5 can only vary the SVR to reflect those circumstances. It has no power to 
change the SVR if those circumstances do not exist, and no power to change the SVR in a 
way which does not reflect those circumstances.
It follows that if those circumstances do not exist, MAS5 cannot vary the SVR. 
In this case, MAS5 relied on condition 3.1 (b) on each of the occasions it increased the SVR 
between 2009 and 2012  to reflect a change which had occurred, or which it reasonably 
expected to occur, in the cost of the funds which it used in its mortgage lending business.
In respect of the other parts of condition 3.1, I dont think what MAS5 could potentially have 
relied on (but didnt in fact rely on) would necessarily have any impact on the lawfulness of 
purporting to rely on condition 3.1 (b).  Such considerations may however potentially be 
relevant to the broader question of whether the interest rate it charged from 8 November 
2016 onwards was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances (relevant law being only one 
of the considerations I must take into account in determining that). 
The fact is that MAS5 didnt rely on any of the other parts of condition 3.1, it relied on 
condition 3.1 (b). Ive found that the evidence does not show there was a relevant change in 
the cost of funds which it used in its mortgage lending business, and no such change that it 
could reasonably have anticipated. And in the absence of such a change, or the reasonable 
anticipation of such a change, MAS5 had no power under the contract to vary the SVR 
relying on condition 3.1 (b).
In these circumstances, a court may well find that where one party has no power to take a 
step, because the conditions contractually limiting its ability to do so are not fulfilled, then 
any action it takes to do so is of no effect. MAS5s decision to increase the SVR in the 
absence of a justification under condition 3.1 (b) was therefore potentially of no effect, a 
nullity, and would therefore result in for payment with no basis (rather than, for example, a 
breach of contract). I referred to this in my provisional decision.
Either way, I dont think that changes my overall conclusions. That is because the SVR 
payable at any moment in time is the sum of the original rate and all changes made to it 
thereafter. If some of those SVR changes were either a nullity or made in breach of contract 
then they can nonetheless contribute to unfairness in the later interest rates built upon them. 
As I have said, relevant law is a matter for me to take into account. But the changes to the 
SVR took place before the period that falls within my jurisdiction. Those changes, and the 
relevant law applicable to them, are part of all the circumstances of the case which I am 
required to take into account in determining what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So the legal points Ive just explained would be of importance in court 
proceedings, but they arent decisive of this complaint. Because of the extent to which the 
terms and conditions are central to the nature of the agreement between the parties, I think 
this is a factor that carries significant weight. But I would reach the same ultimate decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances even if I am incorrect in my analysis of 
whether as a matter of law the changes were of no effect. My view of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
I remind myself that my obligation is, as DISP 3.6.1 R and 3.6.4 R say, to determine this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I 
take into account:
relevant
olaw and regulations;
oregulators rules, guidance and standards;
ocodes of practice; and
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, which I have to determine, is that the interest rate they were 
charged by MAS5 from 8 November 2016 onwards was not a fair rate of interest.
As at 8 November 2016, the level of the SVR was 5.5%. Ive set out above why its my view 
that the increases MAS5 made to the SVR between 2009 and 2012, which increased it from 
2.99% in 2009 to 5.75% by 1 May 2012 (with a later reduction in September 2016) were not 
permitted under the terms of the mortgage contract. Those increases, while they fall outside 
the time period I can consider, are nevertheless part of all the circumstances of the case 
since they can be considered to be contributing factors to the SVR being charged at 5.5% 
from 8 November 2016 onwards.
The terms and conditions of the contract, and the fact that in my view MAS5 acted outside 
the terms and conditions are therefore matters of relevant law for me to take into account. 
However, these matters are relevant but not determinative of themselves  they are among 
the factors I have to weigh in the balance in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Given that my remit is to take into account relevant law but also, where 
necessary, to look beyond it as part of the wider fairness exercise, I think there are other 
matters that are also important for me to consider.
The restrictive covenant
Firstly, Ive considered the wider context in which MAS5 made the increases  as even if as 
a matter of law it was not entitled to rely on them, it might nevertheless be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances for the interest rate charged to Mr and Mrs B from 
8 November 2016 to reflect those increases.
The 2009 increase took place shortly after the end of the restrictive covenant between 
GMAC and MAS5 which limited the SVR MAS5 could charge customers to a cap of 2% 
above Bank of England base rate. This was a contractual agreement between GMAC and 
MAS5. It did not lead to a variation of the terms of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage agreement and 
Mr and Mrs B were not party to it  indeed, its very unlikely they would have known of its 
existence until this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I think that the restrictive covenant  which I am satisfied was a matter between 
GMAC and Britannia, and was not drafted or designed for the benefit of customers such as Mr and Mrs B or designed to give them enforceable rights  is an unusual 
feature of the case that in my opinion kept the SVR artificially low.
Without it, I have little doubt that the SVR would not have reduced to the level it did. 
The 2009 changes are a long time before the period I am considering, and at some 
point between then and November 2016 MAS5 might lawfully have relied on one or 
other of the conditions in clause 3.1 to vary it from this artificially low level. But for the 
restrictive covenant, its likely MAS5 either would have increased the SVR or at least 
not reduced it as much as it did before 2009.
Although Mr and Mrs B did not revert to the SVR until the time of the first increase in 
July 2009, and to that extent did not benefit from the time prior to the increase when 
the SVR was kept within 2% of base rate, I have also reminded myself that they did 
benefit from the after effects of the restrictive covenant in a way that might be 
characterised as a windfall in the period until the second SVR increase in October 
2009. And, given that SVR rates are not set on an individual level, its also a relevant 
consideration that other customers, who reverted to SVR before Mr and Mrs B, had 
benefitted from that windfall for a longer period. I dont think, as a matter of wider 
fairness, that Mr and Mrs B could reasonably expect MAS5 to make that windfall 
available indefinitely at its own cost.
I concluded that it wasnt unfair for the interest rate charged after 7 November 2016 to reflect 
the 2009 increases, even if the 2009 increases were made otherwise than in accordance 
with the terms and conditions.
MAS5 did not make any further submissions on this. But Mr and Mrs B did. They said its 
reasonable to assume that GMAC included the covenant in the terms of the sale to MAS5 to 
protect its customers from rapacious and unscrupulous rate rises. Therefore in bringing 
the covenant to an end, MAS5 was not redressing an artificially low SVR, but ramping up 
rates even though there was no justification for doing so. If the covenant was put in place to 
protect the interests of MAS5 customers, then removing it was against their interests  a 
breach of the regulators Principle 6. 
In any case, Mr and Mrs B said, there was no windfall. The SVR was set according to the 
terms of the covenant, and then should have been set according to the terms of the 
mortgage agreement. If the 2009 increases were not contractually permitted, they cannot be 
justified. If there was a windfall it was MAS5 who benefitted from it  in the form of an 
interest rate double what it should have been and the profit it made from Mr and Mrs B as a 
result.
Ive carefully considered what Mr and Mrs B have said. But I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to treat their mortgage as if the restrictive covenant was still in place from 
8 November 2016, or to reduce the interest rate to no more than 2% above Bank of England 
base rate as they have asked me to do. The mortgage terms and conditions and the 
mortgage offer do not create the expectation that there was a link between base rate and the 
SVR  whether a cap of 2% or some other link. Mr and Mrs B have never been charged an 
interest rate of 2% above base rate  the SVR was already more than that by the time they 
reverted to it  and I dont think there are any grounds for finding that they could have had a 
reasonable expectation that such a cap was in place under the terms of their mortgage 
contract.
I remain of the view that Mr and Mrs B werent party to the covenant  and so had no 
contractual rights under it and couldnt enforce it or require MAS5 to abide by it. The 
covenant was an arrangement between GMAC and MAS5. Under the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage agreement with Mr and Mrs B MAS5 as the transferee had the right to change the interest rate if the circumstances in condition 3.1 arose. But MAS5 agreed to 
further limit its freedom to do that by undertaking to GMAC that it would also keep the SVR 
no more than 2% above base rate.
I dont think Mr and Mrs B were aware of the covenant at the time, or at any time before this 
complaint. And I dont think theres any evidence that either GMAC or MAS5 led them to 
believe that the interest rate on their mortgage was capped to 2% above base rate. The 
mortgage offer and terms and conditions do not suggest that the SVR tracks base rate, that 
there is a cap of 2% above base rate, or that there is any other linkage between the SVR 
and base rate.
I think its also worth noting that the mortgages GMAC retained were not made subject to a 
similar provision. GMAC did not reduce its own SVR to the same level that MAS5 did, and 
indeed had a higher SVR for much of the relevant period, including after 2009. In other 
words, if Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage had remained with GMAC theyd likely have been in a 
worse position than they were following the transfer to MAS5. If GMACs intention on 
agreeing the covenant with MAS5 was to ensure that customers were not left worse off as a 
result  I have no evidence on what GMAC intended  then that was achieved. Its also likely 
neither MAS5 nor GMAC contemplated what would happen to base rate and the wider 
markets after the transfer. The mortgage terms and conditions themselves limit MAS5s 
freedom for manoeuvre, and only permit the SVR to be varied for legitimate reasons. 
Even if the restrictive covenant was put in place to protect the interests of former GMAC 
customers, I dont think it follows that the ending of the covenant puts MAS5 in breach of 
Principle 6. The ability to change an SVR over time is a common feature of long term 
mortgage contracts, and there is no obligation for an SVR to be linked to base rate. Even 
after the covenant was no longer in place, the terms and conditions protected the interests of 
customers from arbitrary increases. The question of whether MAS5 acted in a way permitted 
by the terms and conditions is a separate question to whether it is unfair, or a breach of 
Principle 6, for the mortgage to be governed by the terms and conditions alone. 
In terms of the contractual relationship between Mr and Mrs B on the one hand and GMAC 
as their original lender and MAS5 as the transferee on the other, the SVR on their mortgage 
was not limited to 2% above base rate at any time. To the extent that MAS5 agreed with a 
third party to manage the mortgage in a particular way for a particular time, Mr and Mrs B 
may well have benefitted from that arrangement  though it was no longer in place by the 
time they reverted to the SVR  but it was not one they were aware of, were party to or had 
any rights arising from beyond those set out in their own mortgage contract.
Its important to note that the right to fair treatment and the other obligations set out in the 
FCAs Principles are not contractual or actionable legal rights  but even if Mr and Mrs B had 
no rights under the restrictive covenant as a matter of law, the covenant might still be 
relevant to whether they were treated fairly.
In the period I can consider, from 8 November 2016, the restrictive covenant had not been in 
place for more than seven years. While the covenant was in force, and directly influencing 
the level of MAS5s SVR, Mr and Mrs B were still on a fixed rate and not subject to the SVR.
However, I do think the covenant has some relevance to this complaint. As I said in my 
provisional decision, the effect of the covenant was to reduce the level of the SVR to a level 
that was lower than it would otherwise have been by the end of Mr and Mrs Bs fixed rate on 
30 June 2009. At this time, the SVR was 2.99% - lower than the SVR of any other firm in the 
group, and lower than the mortgages that remained with GMAC. I think its likely that without 
the restrictive covenant the SVR would have reduced between 2007 and 2009  but that it would not have reduced as much as it did. And so Mr and Mrs B would have paid more than 
they in fact did after reversion to the SVR from 1 July 2009.
Mr and Mrs B did therefore benefit from the existence of the covenant, in that the SVR they 
reverted to from 1 July 2009 was lower than it would have been otherwise, even taking into 
account the first SVR increase which took effect on the same day. 
Ive said above that, following the wording of the contract, I dont think MAS5 acted within its 
powers in increasing the SVR in 2009, since there was no change to its cost of funds (or 
other relevant circumstance) at this time. 
While MAS5 may not have had any contractual justification for increasing the SVR once the 
covenant came to an end, I have to take all the wider circumstances into account when 
thinking about whats fair and reasonable more broadly during the period I can consider. And 
for the reasons I have given, I am satisfied that directing MAS5 to essentially deduct the 
2009 increases from interest charged from 8 November 2016 onwards would provide Mr and 
Mrs B with a level of compensation that I think goes beyond what is fair and reasonable in 
view of (i) the age of the increases and (ii) the windfall element in the restrictive covenant. 
To do so would result in the interest rate from 8 November 2016 being lower than Mr and 
Mrs B could have expected it to be by operation of the mortgage terms and conditions alone, 
and would result in over-compensation.
Credit risk and the position of MAS5 in the wider market
Ive discussed above the evidence MAS5 has provided in response to my provisional 
decision, including the further third party report, which it says shows that a) its own credit risk 
was high, given the nature of its loan book, and b) that pricing for credit risk is part of the 
mortgage market and that higher risk loans generally.
The third party credit risk report submitted in response to my provisional decision says that 
the MAS5 book consists of non-conforming loans, though it doesnt evidence that  the 
evidence it does include is based on an analysis of MAS5 customers credit risk from 2016 
onwards, not at the point at which the mortgages were taken out. A non-conforming loan 
generally refers to the underwriting standards applied at inception, not to the borrowers 
circumstances many years later. 
Ive considered that report. But despite what it says, I think the contemporary evidence 
suggests that in fact not all the MAS5 book was non-conforming at inception. Im aware that 
GMAC lent on both a prime and sub-prime basis. The securitisation prospectuses for two of 
the five entities, including one which took almost half of the MAS5 book, suggests that the 
loan book wasnt entirely sub-prime or non-conforming. For example, the entity which took 
the largest part of the MAS5 book reported that 94% of its loans were from GMAC  and 
cross-referencing this with what MAS5 has told us where the beneficial interest of its loans 
were transferred into the five entities, around 75% was MAS5 loans. Of this securitisation 
vehicle, then, 75% of its total value was MAS5 loans. But it also reported that it included 
57% prime retail lending, 22% non-conforming residential loans, and 21% buy to let 
mortgages. This suggests that a majority of MAS5 lending was not underwritten on a non-
conforming basis  though 74% of the vehicle was made up of interest only lending, and 
76% self-certification or where no income was verified on origination.  
Similarly, the January 2011 board paper Ive referred to above says that the Optimum 
segment of the group (which included MAS5) was 36% prime residential, 35% 
self-certification, 3% non-conforming and 25% buy to let. And Mr and Mrs Bs own mortgage offer does not appear to have been issued on a 
sub-prime or non-conforming basis  in my experience, it was usual for a mortgage offer at 
this time to include a statement to the effect that the terms of this mortgage reflect current or 
past financial difficulty or similar if that was the case. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was taken out on a self-certification basis since I 
dont have the application or underwriting notes. But, as is well known, self-certification 
carries its own risks, and it appears many other MAS5 mortgages were taken out on a 
similar basis. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was issued on an interest only basis.
Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage industry and my experience of mortgage 
complaints that the distinction between sub-prime or non-conforming loans on the one hand, 
and prime loans on the other, refers to the underwriting standard  with sub-prime / 
non-conforming loans available to customers with problematic credit histories who would not 
qualify for prime lending. Self-certification of itself does not mean a loan is sub-prime; a 
prime mortgage could be self-certified (and at the time, a number of high street lenders 
offered self-certification mortgages to otherwise prime customers). Self-certification does not 
necessarily mean the borrower is held to a lower underwriting standard or requires specialist 
or credit-impaired lending; it simply means that they do not have to provide evidence in 
support of their application. 
I dont therefore think the evidence shows that all MAS5s lending was on a non-conforming 
basis  though there were other risk factors such as a high proportion of self-certified and 
interest only mortgages also present.
Its also fair to say that even in the higher risk end of the marker there is a variation of rates 
charged. For example, the non-conforming lenders MAS5 used to benchmark against in the 
January 2011 board paper had, at that time, SVRs ranging from 4.49% to 6.11% (MAS5s 
increased from 4.75% to 5.5%).
The third partys report does show that by 2016 a substantial proportion of MAS5 borrowers 
had an adverse credit history  between 20% and 25% over the period looked at. This is 
high compared to the population as a whole, but is not evidence of the level of credit risk 
those borrowers presented a decade or more earlier when their loans were taken out.
The third party report provided in response to my provisional decision also analyses lending 
criteria and SVRs between 2012 and 2020, and concludes that products available to 
applicants with adverse credit were charged at an interest rate between 0.68% and 0.85% 
higher than products that were not available to such applicants. 
Ive taken this into account too, though I think its of limited utility. Im aware that credit risk is 
one factor many lenders take into account in setting the level of their SVRs  though I also 
note that (other than as a contributor to cost of funds) its not something that the terms and 
conditions of this mortgage allow MAS5 to take into account when varying the existing SVR. 
However, I approach the usefulness of the specific premium of 0.68% to 0.85% that the 
report found with a degree of caution. Thats because the report was based on an analysis of 
products available to new customers as reported in an industry publication between 2012 
and 2020. As a result, it excluded the interest rates of closed book lenders  which it seems 
to me is the cohort of firms most like MAS5, and therefore the group to which MAS5 ought 
best to be compared if a comparison of SVRs between lenders is to be done. As I said in my 
provisional decision, the regulator found in 2021 that only 3.3% of borrowers of mortgages with closed book lenders (such as MAS5) were paying an interest rate above 5%6, at a time 
when MAS5s SVR was 5.35%. Although this post-dates the period of the analysis in the 
third party report, it shows that at that time MAS5s SVR was higher than the interest rate 
charged by other firms to which it was most similar. 
Secondly, the third partys report is based on new products offered to new customers 
between 2012 and 2020. But MAS5s mortgages  like those of most closed book lenders  
were originated before the global financial crisis, when lending standards and risk appetite 
were very different to the period considered in the report. The report conducts an analysis of 
the difference between SVRs offered to new customers from 2012 on an adverse credit 
versus a prime basis. But the SVR in this case was not set as being appropriate to new 
customers from 2012 onwards, it was set as being appropriate to new customers before the 
financial crisis of 2008 (and varied since). Comparison of underwriting decisions made 
before and after the financial crisis and the resulting change in market appetite and lending 
regulations creates a risk that like is not being compared with like.  
And thirdly, the report is premised in part on MAS5 customers having adverse credit from 
2016 onwards  which, since it is a closed book lender, is many years after their mortgages 
were taken out  whereas the SVR comparison exercise is based on new customer lending 
criteria. 
I think its reasonable to conclude that by 2016 many of MAS5s customers who could have 
moved their mortgages elsewhere had done so (its loan book had been shrinking year on 
year)  meaning that by this time the customers who remained within MAS5 were likely to be 
largely those unable to move elsewhere for reasons of current affordability or credit 
problems (as in the case of Mr and Mrs B). This might include customers who were non-
conforming at the time of the lending decision  but it could also include customers 
underwritten on a prime basis whose circumstances have changed in the decade since. 
This means that theres a risk that by the period under analysis, from 2016 onwards, MAS5s 
remaining customer base is not representative of the breadth of the customer base when the 
loans were originated before 2008. Again, this risks leading to a situation in which a 
comparison between MAS5s residual book on the one hand and new lending by other 
lenders on the other hand does not represent a like for like comparison, meaning the results 
carry less weight.
As Ive said above, the evidence available suggests that by no means all of MAS5s 
mortgages were lent on a non-conforming / sub-prime / adverse credit basis and all were 
taken out before 2008, so MAS5s SVR (as set by GMAC before the financial crisis based on 
lending risk at inception and subsequently varied by MAS5) is not directly comparable with 
the SVRs of lenders who lend to new customers on an adverse credit basis in the very 
different market of 2012 onwards as set (and subsequently varied) at the time that lending 
was entered into after 2012. 
For those reasons, I think an analysis of new lending offered by active lenders underwriting 
in a very different market after 2012 is of limited value in predicting what might be a 
reasonable level of SVR for MAS5 to charge to customers whose loans originated before 
2008. 
Taking all that evidence into account, I think its reasonable to conclude that some  but by 
no means all  of the MAS5 loan book was lent to customers on a sub-prime / 
6 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/10
36355/Mortgage_Prisoners_Review_CP576_FINAL.pdf - see Section B of Annex 1non-conforming basis. And its also reasonable to conclude that the book included a high 
percentage of interest only, and a high percentage of self-certified mortgages. As a general 
principle, one might expect that lenders with mortgages of those types charge, on the whole, 
higher SVRs than ones that have a greater proportion of lower risk mortgages. But I dont 
think its possible to extrapolate a specific premium or uplift which it would be reasonable for 
MAS5 to charge  even if the terms and conditions allowed the interest rate to be varied in 
that way (which they dont).
MAS5 also says that a greater proportion of its mortgages were in arrears than was the case 
for either the groups retail lending, or for the rest of the Optimum segment. It says that this 
is evidence MAS5 presented a higher credit risk  justifying the charging of a higher SVR  
than was the case either for the groups other loan books, or compared to the wider market.
The third party compares arrears rates on the MAS5 book with other lenders between 2012 
and 2020, and reaches a similar conclusion.
Im satisfied that, in general, its reasonable for lenders to price for arrears risk. In general, 
the riskier a loan book is the more likely it is that borrowers will miss payments or default 
altogether  and so the interest rate would be expected to be higher to ensure that the 
lender can recover sufficient income.
In the circumstances of this particular complaint, though, its not as straightforward as that. 
The terms and conditions of this mortgage do not permit MAS5 to change the SVR to reflect 
changes in credit risk (other than indirectly if credit risk impacts MAS5s cost of funding), or 
to benchmark itself against the market (though they do permit changes to reflect changes 
other lenders make). So if the SVR was lower than it would otherwise have been because of 
the restrictive covenant, adjusting it to reflect the credit risk of the mortgage book might be a 
rational course for MAS5 to take  but not one permitted by the terms and conditions, absent 
movement in interest rates elsewhere.
There is also a question of causation. MAS5s evidence is that the arrears rate on its 
mortgages only exceeded that of the rest of the Optimum segment from 2010  after the 
increases in the SVR in 2009. 
Although the 2009 increases aligned the MAS5 SVR with the rest of the group, they 
amounted to a 1.51% increase in MAS5s SVR, from 2.99% to 4.5%  which, for an interest 
only customer paying the SVR in 2009, represented a 51% increase in their monthly 
payments over a short period. So its possible that the increase in arrears across the MAS5 
book was a consequence of the 2009 SVR increases. 
Thats not a factor in Mr and Mrs Bs case, since reversion to the SVR lowered their own 
interest rate from 6.39% fixed to 3.74% SVR (increasing to 4.5% from October 2009), and so 
reduced their monthly payments. But it is relevant to the point MAS5 makes about the wider 
risk position presented by the mortgage book as a whole.
Nevertheless, the overall credit risk of the MAS5 book  including the profile of its borrowers 
at origination, as well as the level of arrears and defaults  is a relevant factor to take into 
account in thinking about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
The structure of the wider group and MAS5s place in it
Ive set out that Im satisfied that issues relating to the wider group and any increases in cost 
of funds it may have faced are not in and of themselves relevant for the purposes of the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage agreement to the cost incurred by MAS5 in the funds used to fund its mortgage lending business; it would only be relevant if the group 
passed those changes on to MAS5 such that the cost of funds MAS5 itself incurred 
changed. 
However, MAS5 also says I should take this into account as part of my wider consideration 
of whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. For example, it appears to argue that 
the structure and funding arrangements the group adopted were such that MAS5 was not 
exposed to the sorts of pressures on its costs that the group faced, or that MAS5 would have 
faced had it tried to fund itself on the open market. But I dont think I can reasonably give 
substantial weight to what the group or MAS5 could have done but chose not to in 
determining what is fair and reasonable during the period I can consider. In my view, whats 
fair and reasonable should be judged in all the circumstances as they are, not as they might 
have been had MAS5 structured its business in a wholly different way. In any case, since 
MAS5s SVR was not outside the range of that of other similar lenders that it identified at the 
time, I dont think there is evidence that its chosen structure and funding model resulted in its 
interest rate being substantially lower than it would have been had it done something 
different.
The passage of time between the 2009 to 2012 variations and the period that falls within my 
jurisdiction
As I said in my provisional decision, I think its relevant to note that the 2009 changes were 
over seven years before the relevant period.
The 2011 and 2012 increases were also a considerable time before the period I can 
consider  around five and four years respectively. By this time, the global financial crisis of 
2007-2008 was in the past. MAS5 has also referred to the impact of the eurozone problems 
around this time  but, as Ive explained above, to the extent that the wider economic 
environment affected the funding costs of the wider group, the evidence shows that was not 
passed on to MAS5. MAS5 has not provided any information or arguments that persuades 
me that in the period between 2012 and 2016 it might have had a contractually permitted 
reason for increasing the SVR that it didnt exercise (having already increased the SVR in 
2011 and 2012). There were no further changes to the SVR between 2012 and 2016  other 
than the reduction to reflect a change in base rate in September 2016  and so even with the 
passage of time the 2011 and 2012 changes are more likely to be of direct causative effect 
on the level of the interest rate charged in the period I can consider. 
The passage of time and the risk of deterioration of evidence
This is more a question of the weight I give to evidence of what happened longer ago than it 
is a factor in its own right. 
Im mindful that while Im only considering the fairness of interest charged since 8 November 
2016, that is itself almost seven years ago. And in considering that, I have also taken into 
account matters which took place before that, between 2009 and 2012. MAS5 says that 
given the passage of time its likely that the evidence has deteriorated and that  for example 
 persuasive evidence that led me to reject the 2014 complaint is no longer available.
Im conscious of that risk. I recognise I have to be careful in drawing conclusions about what 
happened some years ago when relevant evidence might no longer be available. But this 
complaint is one that falls within my jurisdiction, and therefore I do have to reach a 
conclusion on it  which entails doing the best I can with whats available.
Having reviewed the conclusions Ive set out above, I dont think MAS5 has been prejudiced 
unduly by the passage of time. Insofar as Ive considered its actions between 2009 and 2012, it has been able to provide detailed evidence from the time, supported by recent 
expert analysis. And while I havent accepted what it has said, I dont think it has been 
hampered in its ability to make its case. 
My reasons for finding that MAS5 did not act in a way permitted by the contract between 
2009 and 2012 are not because of gaps in the evidence  there are no unexplained 
discrepancies, obviously missing documents or unexplained decisions. Much of the evidence 
I have considered is contemporaneous  both the internal documents MAS5 has provided, 
and its accounts and other publicly available information. 
MAS5 has been able to present a clear and evidenced account of what it did, and make 
arguments about why it did so. There is no missing evidence such that I am unable to 
understand the actions MAS5 took at the relevant times or its reasons for doing so. Rather, 
we simply disagree about whether it was entitled to do what it did. 
If there is additional evidence that is no longer available, I dont think its likely that it would 
have changed my mind for the following reasons. MAS5s central argument in respect of the 
period before 2012 is that in looking at whether clause 3.1(b) was satisfied its necessary to 
look at the cost of funds of the group as a whole rather than the cost of funds of MAS5 
individually. My decision is that I dont accept that as a premise, rather than that MAS5 has 
not sufficiently proved the groups cost of funds changed. Further evidence not now available 
would most likely give further information about group funding costs, rather than show that 
they were passed on to MAS5 after all (since if that was in fact the case, it would more likely 
than not be reflected in MAS5s accounts  but it isnt). 
For that reason, I dont think the passage of time has prejudiced MAS5s ability to provide 
relevant evidence or make its case, or has impacted my ability to take into account the 
earlier variations as part of all the circumstances of the complaint in a fair and reasonable 
way. 
The previous cases
I have referred to past cases  including a final decision issued by me in 2014  where 
apparently similar complaints were not upheld, as well as a more recent one which was 
upheld by an investigator at a preliminary stage but never considered by an ombudsman. 
MAS5 says that given the past cases not upholding other complaints, it is not appropriate to 
depart from them. There is a need for consistency and finality  not just with respect to 
individual complaints but also where issues with significant wider ramifications are 
involved. Were I to reconsider the 2014 case today, adopting the approach I have now 
taken, I might reach a different outcome. It says that would be irrational.
I have noted what MAS5 says about this. I dealt with this in my provisional decision too. I 
explained that cases are considered individually, on their own merits and in their own 
circumstances, and that no one case sets a binding precedent for any other. There is a 
broader expectation that an ombudsmans decision will be reasonable and rational  which 
includes an expectation that like cases will be treated alike  but I am not bound to reach the 
same outcome as past cases if that is not the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I do not recall the 2014 case and neither MAS5 nor the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
any record of what evidence was provided at that time. Having reviewed the decision, Ive 
noted that case was about a buy to let mortgage not a regulated residential mortgage. It 
appears from that earlier decision that the case advanced by the complainant was different 
to the case advanced in this complaint. The 2014 complainant appears to have argued that 
MAS5 was contractually obliged to tie its SVR to base rate. I found that there was no such obligation and noted that MAS5 had given a credible explanation of why its SVR had 
increased absent changes to base rate  but (unlike in this case, where the actual 
justification MAS5 gave is central to the complainants argument) did not consider it 
necessary to analyse that alternative explanation in detail since it was not central to the 
complaint that had been made.  Ive also noted that while I appear from the decision to have 
reviewed the evidence MAS5 provided I did not  for example  consider the wider 
circumstances such as MAS5s published accounts. So it is possible that I took what MAS5 
may have said about changes to its costs of funds at face value, and it appears from that 
earlier decision that the arguments advanced in that case differed from the arguments 
advanced in this one. It may be that if I were to consider that case again, in the way I have 
considered this one, I would reach a different outcome. I do not know. 
But Im satisfied that I am not required as a matter of binding precedent to reach the same 
outcome as I did in the previous case, and that I can reach a different outcome provided the 
evidence in this case rationally entitles me to reach the outcome I have reached and that is 
the fair and reasonable thing in all the circumstances. I have given careful consideration to 
all the evidence and all the circumstances of this complaint and I am satisfied that I have 
reached an outcome which I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case. I do not think that the existence of the previous cases prevents me from reaching 
that outcome. 
More recent changes to the SVR
MAS5 says its relevant to take into account that since the Bank of England started 
increasing base rate in late 2021, it has not reflected the full extent of those increases in 
changes to its SVR. It says that as a result while the SVR has increased, the margin 
between the SVR and base rate has reduced to 3.88%.
I have taken this into account, but ultimately I dont think it alters my overall opinion of what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. The more recent changes to base 
rate and the SVR fall outside the period covered by this complaint and so I have not reached 
any conclusions on the fairness or otherwise of those increases in themselves. I dont think 
actions MAS5 has taken since late 2021 have any particular bearing on the lawfulness of 
actions it took prior to that date, or the fairness of interest charged in the period covered by 
this complaint. And if reducing the interest charged to Mr and Mrs B as a result of this 
complaint impacts whether the interest rate going forward reflects more recent changes to 
MAS5s cost of funds, that is something it potentially has the contractual power to rectify. But 
it is not a reason to withhold or reduce redress for the period covered by this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Bs personal circumstances
By the time of the period I can consider, from 8 November 2016, Mr and Mrs B were in 
financial difficulty and had been in financial difficulty for some years. Its likely the property 
was in negative equity by this time  it certainly was by the time of the shortfall sale in 2020. 
Mr and Mrs B have told us about their circumstances over the years. They had separated, 
and Mr B was no longer living in the property  Mrs B and their child lived there. Both had 
experienced longstanding employment difficulties and they were reliant on the support of 
family to pay the mortgage. Although they had largely been free of arrears since 2013, its 
clear maintaining the mortgage caused them significant difficulties. 
This was an interest only mortgage, and Mr and Mrs B dont seem to have had a repayment 
strategy other than sale of the property.For all those reasons, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs B would have been unable to move 
their mortgage to another lender. They did not have the option of shopping around and had 
to remain with MAS5 whatever decisions it made, short of selling their property (as in the 
end they did). I think this means theres a particular obligation on MAS5 to ensure it treats 
them fairly and reasonably in accordance with the FCAs principles for business. MAS5 did 
not have an obligation to reduce their interest rate, or charge Mr and Mrs B less than it would 
otherwise have done, merely because they were unable to move their mortgage elsewhere. 
But given they lacked the choice to move elsewhere and mitigate any impact, decisions 
MAS5 made would have a particular impact on them and therefore it had a particular 
obligation to ensure fair treatment.
Its also worth noting, though, that Mr and Mrs Bs initial fixed rate of 6.39% was the highest 
rate theyve paid during the whole life of their mortgage. When they first started paying the 
SVR on 1 July 2009 it was 3.74% - meaning their monthly payments would have reduced by 
around 40%. And while their interest rate increased later, it was never as high as 6.39% 
again before they redeemed in 2020. 
When Mr and Mrs B first took out the mortgage, GMAC assessed payments at 6.39% as 
being affordable, as it seems they were at first. It was Mr and Mrs Bs later change of 
circumstances which led to their difficulties maintaining the mortgage even at lower interest 
rates than the initial fixed rate. And while I dont doubt things would have been easier for 
them had MAS5 lowered or not increased the interest rate they were paying, Im satisfied it 
was the change of circumstances which was the ultimate cause of their difficulties. MAS5 
had an ongoing obligation to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly and take account of any financial 
difficulties  but it wasnt usual for a reduction in the interest rate that would otherwise apply 
to be part of forbearance. 
The transfer from GMAC to MAS5
Mr B  who I understand has some professional experience of the banking industry  says 
that its likely that MAS5 paid less for their mortgage than it was worth; he estimates MAS5 
would have paid no more than 75% of the value of the mortgages it bought from GMAC. He 
says that this means that MAS5 has made a substantial profit from their mortgage  even 
after factoring in the shortfall that was written off.
I have no information about the terms of the transfer agreement between GMAC and MAS5, 
and in any case I dont think it affects my overall decision. Ill deal below with the points Mr B 
makes about fair redress. But in respect of the fairness of the interest rate charged, I dont 
think this is a consideration that carries substantial weight.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage is governed by the terms and conditions agreed between them 
and their lender. Under the terms and conditions, GMAC was entitled to transfer the 
mortgage to MAS5, and following the transfer MAS5 was Mr and Mrs Bs lender. The price it 
paid for the mortgage  whatever that price was  does not affect MAS5s rights and 
obligations under the mortgage contract, including the limitations on the circumstances in 
which it can change the interest rate. Nor does it affect Mr and Mrs Bs obligations to pay 
back the money they borrowed at the interest rate agreed and lawfully varied.
It is not illegitimate for a mortgage lender to make a profit, either generally or from individual 
loans. It is not part of my role to regulate the amount of profit MAS5 may or may not have 
made, either generally or from Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage specifically. Just as MAS5 would 
not be entitled to increase the interest rate to avoid making a loss or boost profits (absent a 
permitted reason under the terms and conditions such as a change in the cost of funds), it is 
not required to reduce the interest rate it would otherwise be entitled to charge to limit the 
profit it makes. Ive considered above whether MAS5 was entitled to change the interest rate when it did, 
taking into account its obligations under the contract. I dont think the financial arrangement 
with GMAC in consideration for the purchase of the mortgage agreements is a matter that 
significantly affects my view of the fairness of MAS5s treatment of Mr and Mrs B during the 
period I can consider.
My conclusion on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Ive set out above the factors Ive taken into account in reaching my conclusions in this case. 
Ive reminded myself again that I am only considering the fairness  in all the circumstances 
 of the interest charged to Mr and Mrs B since 8 November 2016.
I think it is reasonable to take into account the earlier variations as part of all the 
circumstances. The SVR charged on 8 November 2016 was not set from scratch on that 
day; it was the sum of the parts of what had gone before. And it was at the level it was, in 
part, because of the increases between 2009 and 2012.
Ive concluded on the evidence provided to me that MAS5 was not permitted to increase the 
SVR in the way it did, for the reasons it did, at those times. And therefore that, on a strict 
reading of the contract, MAS5 could not rely on those increases in charging the SVR that 
resulted from 8 November 2016 onwards. Thats relevant law, and Ive taken it into account.
But I do think, for the same reasons as I gave in my provisional decision, that its reasonable 
to take the wider context into account too. 
Im satisfied that there were broader circumstances beyond the strict application of the 
contract which were relevant to what happened in 2009. The restrictive covenant  agreed 
between GMAC and MAS5 before the global financial crisis but applying during it  meant 
that because of its contractual obligations to GMAC (entirely separately to its obligations to 
Mr and Mrs B), MAS5 was obliged to reduce its SVR at the same time and to the same 
extent that the Bank of England base rate reduced. Im aware from my knowledge of the 
mortgage market and of other complaints that this was highly unusual. Most other lenders 
also reduced their SVRs (or equivalent rates) around this time  but not to the same degree 
that base rate fell. Prior to the global financial crisis (when the covenant was entered into), a 
margin of around 2% between base rate and SVRs was not unusual in the mortgage market. 
By 2009 that was no longer the case. That couldnt have been foreseen by MAS5 or GMAC 
when the covenant was entered into.
The effect of the 2009 increases was to bring the SVR to a level it would likely have been but 
for the restrictive covenant. Mr and Mrs B benefitted from that reduction between reversion 
and the second increase in October 2009  but it wasnt something they were entitled to and 
it doesnt follow that they can reasonably expect to continue to benefit from it in the same 
way.
Taking a step back and looking at things in the round, I think the SVR was artificially low by 
reason of the restrictive covenant. And even if there wasnt a direct linkage with an increase 
in cost of funds at the time of the increases in 2009, its likely that the SVR had reduced 
further and faster compared to reductions in cost of funds in the years since 2007 than it 
would have done but for the covenant. 
Although Mr and Mrs B themselves derived a relatively small benefit  only for the period 
between reversion and the first increase on 1 July 2009 and the second increase in October 
2009  this is nevertheless a relevant factor, since the SVR was not set specifically for them on a bespoke basis. The SVR is the standard default rate applied to all MAS5 mortgages 
outside their initial preferential rate. And therefore the fact that customers in general 
benefitted from the restrictive covenant is a relevant factor in thinking about whether it would 
represent fair redress to require MAS5 to reduce the interest rate from 8 November 2016 as 
if the 2009 changes had not happened. Mr and Mrs B may have benefitted from the 
covenant to a lesser extent than may other MAS5 customers, but that doesnt in my view 
change whether its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to take the covenant into 
account.
Mr and Mrs B would not have benefitted from the covenant at all had their mortgage stayed 
with GMAC, as it was not something they were contractually entitled to. I think that directing 
MAS5 to treat the mortgage as if the 2009 increases had never happened would risk over-
compensating Mr and Mrs B during the period in question. 
Ive also borne in mind that the MAS5 book did include a significant element of higher risk 
lending  and while this is a complaint about Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage alone, thats a 
relevant consideration because SVRs are not set individually  and while its possible the 
increase in arrears across the book as a whole was driven by the 2009 SVR increase rather 
than the other way round (noting that in Mr and Mrs Bs particular case their own change of 
circumstances was a key factor), its not unreasonable that the level of the interest rate takes 
into account the risks presented by the mortgage book. The 2009 increases moved the SVR 
to the same level as similar firms within the group  it having been much lower before that.
Its also relevant to note that the 2009 increases were more than seven years before the 
period I can consider  and their direct causative effect lessens over time as other 
circumstances influence the choices MAS5 did and didnt make (and things it might have 
done instead). Although the 2011 and 2012 increases were more than four years before the 
relevant period, those increases were closer in time than the 2009 period and MAS5 has not 
argued there were later increases it could or would have made but for the 2011 or 2012 
increases. So the 2011 and 2012 increases are of more direct causative effect on the rate 
charged from 8 November 2016.
And I think its also fair to take into account that were I to require MAS5 to reduce the 
interest rate charged to Mr and Mrs B from 8 November 2016 by the amount of the 2009 
increases as well as the 2011 and 2012 increases, that would have the effect of reducing the 
interest rate to a level which is significantly lower than might otherwise be expected from a 
closed book lender with a relatively high volume of interest only mortgages, as well as other 
higher risk lending. As Ive said above, I think this is a useful sense check when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable.
Balanced against that I note that Mr and Mrs B had no option but to pay the SVR  they 
couldnt move their mortgage elsewhere  which means MAS5 had a particular obligation 
not to take advantage of their position. And Mr and Mrs B had ongoing problems in making 
their mortgage payments. But those difficulties were largely due to their changes of 
circumstance rather than the actions MAS5 took; even after all the increases in the SVR 
between 2009 and 2012 their interest rate was lower than the initial fixed rate which was 
assessed as affordable for them at the time they took out the mortgage. And where a 
borrower is experiencing difficulties in repaying their mortgage, thats more relevant to the 
lenders obligations to offer appropriate support and forbearance than to the level of the 
SVR. During the period covered by this complaint, there wasnt a regulatory obligation to 
reduce a borrowers interest rate as a form of forbearance. 
Mr and Mrs B said in response to my provisional decision that MAS5 also charged excessive 
arrears fees, late payment fees and legal fees. I have not considered this in detail because it 
was not part of this complaint as originally brought, which is about the interest rate. But I note from the history of the account that MAS5 has not charged any fees since October 
2015, before the period that falls within this complaint. 
Taking everything into account, I do not intend to require MAS5 to reduce the level of 
interest charged to Mr and Mrs B from 8 November 2016 as if the 1.51% increases in 2009 
had never happened. Given the broader circumstances in which those increases happened 
and the distance between 2009 and the period I can consider, Im not persuaded that doing 
so would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. To do so would amount to over-
compensation.
However, I do think it would be fair and reasonable to require MAS5 to reduce the rate 
charged to Mr and Mrs B by 1.25% since 8 November 2016. This reflects the SVR increases 
in 2011 and 2012, to which I dont think the same considerations apply. Again, there was no 
contractual justification for these increases, and I am therefore satisfied that from a legal 
perspective they may be of no effect, or could otherwise be a breach of contract. They are 
also closer in time to the period I can consider, and with no intervening changes (other than 
the September 2016 reduction in line with base rate). 
I have considered the effect of the increases MAS5 made in 2011 and 2012 in the same way 
as the effect of the increases in 2009, though having done so I have come to a different 
conclusion about what is fair and reasonable because the circumstances are different. 
As Ive said, I dont think the 2011 and 2012 increases were contractually permitted and so 
as a starting point it wouldnt be appropriate for the interest rate charged from 8 November 
2016  as the sum of past variations  to be set at a level that incorporated those increases. 
But, as required by our rules and as with the 2009 increases Ive then gone on to think about 
whether there are any other factors  in addition to relevant law  which mean that it would 
not be fair and reasonable to require MAS5 to reduce the interest rate from 8 November 
2016 as if those changes had not happened. 
By the time of the 2011 and 2012 increases, the wider circumstances were different. The 
SVR was not lower than it would otherwise have been, since the effect of the restrictive 
covenant had been corrected for in 2009. There were no changes to the Bank of England 
base rate, or to SVRs in the market generally or among comparable lenders. While the 
group appears to have experienced increased funding costs at this time, as Ive set out 
above MAS5 was insulated from those pressures by the structure the group had chosen to 
adopt. Unlike 2009, theres no evidence that the SVR was artificially low or out of line with 
that of other lenders (including  as the 2011 board paper showed  comparable lenders 
with higher risk loans), or that Mr and Mrs B were by then being charged an SVR that was 
lower than it would have been had something such as the covenant not limited MAS5s room 
for manoeuvre further than the contractual constraints did. And the 2011 and 2012 increases 
were closer in time to, and therefore of stronger direct causative effect on, the interest rate 
charged from 8 November 2016.
Board papers from the time note the group faced pressure on income, but Ive found the 
group had not structured itself in a way that led to those pressures being passed on to 
MAS5, such that MAS5 did not experience changes in its cost of funding its own mortgage 
lending business. I think there is a sense in which MAS5 considers I should take the wider 
group structure into account, on the basis that the group of which MAS5 was a part did face 
increased funding costs and there was something artificial about the structure it adopted 
which meant those increases were not passed on to MAS5. I understand that MAS5 
considers that this is relevant to whether it would be fair and reasonable to require MAS5 to 
absorb the cost of reimbursing Mr and Mrs B when it is part of a group that did face 
increased funding costs and which could have structured itself on an alternative basis 
whereby MAS5 would itself have faced those increased costs. I have considered that. But ultimately, I dont think it would be fair not to direct that MAS5 
pays Mr and Mrs B redress because the costs of a different company  not MAS5  
increased. Im not satisfied that the fact that the group might have structured itself differently 
significantly impacts on this conclusion, given that the choice of structure and group funding 
arrangements is a complex, multi-factored matter where any of the options the group did or 
did not choose would be likely to have their own advantages and disadvantages. MAS5 had 
its reasons for adopting the structure it did, which benefitted it in some way; I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to take the benefits it obtained from the structure it did 
adopt as well as the benefit it could have obtained (in the sense of the ability to legitimately 
change the SVR relying on condition 3.1 (b)) had it not structured the group in that way  to 
have its cake and eat it.
I think whats important is that I consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
as they are, not in all the circumstances of some hypothetical counterfactual situation. The 
circumstances actually were that MAS5 did not face changes to its cost of funding its 
mortgage lending business.
It follows that I dont think it was fair and reasonable to charge Mr and Mrs B an interest rate 
that was 1.25% higher than it would have been from 8 November 2016 had the 2011 and 
2012 increases not happened, and so MAS5 should refund the additional interest charged 
accordingly. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said:
the fair way to resolve this complaint is for MAS5 to re calculate Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage as if the interest rate charged was 1.25% lower than it actually was from 
November 2016 onwards, to the point the mortgage was redeemed (and the shortfall 
written off).
In order to put matters right, MAS5 should re-work Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage as if the 
interest rate had been 1.25% lower between November 2016 and the redemption 
date (taking into account the changes to the SVR during this period which I have 
found to be fair). It should do so using the payments Mr and Mrs B actually made 
during this period  and to the extent those payments amounted to overpayments 
against the contractual monthly payment as it would have been at a rate reduced by 
1.25%, MAS5 should use those overpayments firstly to reduce the arrears (if any) 
and then to reduce the capital balance and therefore the amount of interest charged 
on that reduced balance going forward from each overpayment.
This will result in a revised redemption figure as at the date Mr and Mrs B actually 
repaid their mortgage balance.
Mr and Mrs B are also entitled to some compensation for non-financial loss  for the 
stress and upset of having to make higher monthly payments than they otherwise 
ought to have done over several years. I think given what theyve said of their 
circumstances at this time and the impact on them £750 compensation is fair.
MAS5 should compare the revised redemption figure with the actual redemption 
figure used when the mortgage was repaid.
If the revised redemption figure still results in a shortfall balance, albeit a reduced 
shortfall, MAS5 should still treat the reduced shortfall as written off as it agreed to do 
in 2020. There will be no payment due to Mr and Mrs B in respect of the unfair element of the interest they were charged, since it is subsumed within the revised 
shortfall. Had Mr and Mrs B been charged less interest, the additional amount they 
paid exceeding the lower interest payments would have reduced their capital balance 
and therefore the eventual shortfall, and its reasonable to take that into account in 
determining whether redress is due. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable, in my view, to 
expect MAS5 to refund them overcharged interest having written off a substantial 
shortfall, as that would mean Mr and Mrs B benefit both from having part of their 
balance written off and from having it refunded to them. So its fair and reasonable for 
the overcharged interest to be offset against the amount written off.
Its also fair and reasonable for the £750 compensation to be set off against the 
revised shortfall. Thats because, although MAS5 wrote off the shortfall as a 
forbearance measure rather than as compensation or in acceptance of unfairness, 
the fact is that this meant Mr and Mrs B were left in a substantially better position 
than they would have been had MAS5 not written off the shortfall. And in my view its 
fair and reasonable to take that into account in deciding what fairness requires MAS5 
to pay them now  to the extent the benefit of the written off shortfall outweighs the 
compensation that would otherwise be due.
MAS5 should therefore calculate the difference between the actual redemption 
balance and the revised redemption balance. If that figure plus £750 is less than the 
shortfall written off, no further payment will be due to Mr and Mrs B. If that figure plus 
£750 exceeds the shortfall written off, MAS5 should pay any amount in excess of the 
shortfall to Mr and Mrs B. And to the extent that any payment to Mr and Mrs B 
includes an element of refunded redemption payment, MAS5 should add simple 
annual interest of 8% running from date of redemption to date of refund.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree with this. They did not think it was fair and reasonable to offset 
the redress against the written off shortfall. They say that MAS5 must have purchased their 
mortgage for less than its value from GMAC, and therefore even after the shortfall was 
written off it still made a profit; it is not fair to retain those profits when they come from 
charging interest unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs B say that when MAS5 first offered them the write-off, in 2019, it was not 
conditional or made subject to future clawback. Nor is there a clawback clause in the 
mortgage terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B also want me to direct MAS5 to refund any arrears and late payments fees, 
and legal fees, it has charged to their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B dont agree that £750 is fair compensation. They say that MAS5 sucked 
wealth out of their family for over a decade, with serious consequences. These include a 
worsening of Mrs Bs health conditions; stress on their relationship and their eventual 
divorce; stress on their son throughout his childhood; stress on Mr and Mrs Bs parents, who 
supported them in paying their mortgage, making considerable sacrifices to do so; and 
ultimately it led to Mrs B and their son being forced out of their home. Mr and Mrs B say that 
no amount of money could compensate them for what theyve experienced, but taking into 
account the sorts of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service makes, they believe £5,000 
is a more appropriate sum.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs B have said about this. But I havent 
changed my mind. As Ive already said, I dont think the terms of the transfer from GMAC to 
MAS5 are relevant to the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage or the sums they were required to pay under the mortgage. Nor is any profit MAS5 may or may not have 
made. 
Under the mortgage terms and conditions, Mr and Mrs B were required to repay the sum 
they borrowed, plus interest. I can only consider the fairness of interest charged since 
8 November 2016. Ive said that its fair and reasonable for the interest rate they paid to be 
reduced by 1.25% from that date - and their mortgage should be re-worked to reflect that. 
The revised balance as at the redemption date in 2020 is the amount Mr and Mrs B should 
have paid to redeem their mortgage. If, having sold their property, they did not have enough 
to pay that revised balance, they would still have faced a shortfall, and MAS5 would still 
have written off that reduced shortfall.
Writing off the shortfall means that MAS5 agreed to accept less than Mr and Mrs B owed, 
applying the terms and conditions of their mortgage and in light of their payment history. It 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to refund the entire amount of the overcharged interest 
without taking into account that Mr and Mrs B have already paid substantially less than they 
owed. 
It doesnt make a difference that the offer to write the shortfall off wasnt conditional on the 
outcome of their complaint, or that theres no clawback clause in the mortgage terms and 
conditions. In determining a complaint according to whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, I try to put Mr and Mrs B back in the position they would have been in had 
nothing gone wrong, not a better position. Had MAS5 charged them 1.25% less than it did, 
there would have been a smaller (or no) shortfall to write off. Its fair I take that into account.
Thats why to put matters right MAS5 needs to re-calculate the redemption balance, 
reducing the interest rate since 8 November 2016 by 1.25% and treating the extra amount 
Mr and Mrs B paid above that as periodic capital repayments. 
If the resulting redemption balance is less than the amount Mr and Mrs B repaid, MAS5 
should refund the difference plus 8% simple annual interest.
But if the resulting redemption balance is more than that the amount Mr and Mrs B repaid, 
MAS5 would still have needed to write off a shortfall, albeit a smaller shortfall. If MAS5 
refunded the whole of the overcharged interest as well as writing off the revised shortfall, 
that would mean that Mr and Mrs B paid less than they owed (on the revised basis) while 
also having a refund of what they paid. That would result in them being better off than they 
would be had MAS5 not charged the additional 1.25% in the first place  and that is not fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive not considered the arrears and other fees as part of this complaint, since this complaint 
is solely about the interest rate. In any case, no fees have been charged since October 
2015. I make no decision one way or the other about the fairness of earlier fees in this 
complaint.
Finally, Ive thought again about the amount of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr and Mrs B have experienced. Under 
our rules I can only award compensation for distress and inconvenience experienced by 
complainants, which means I can make no award for the impact of the situation on their son 
or parents. And while I dont doubt the difficulty they faced in maintaining the mortgage, 
much of the problems theyve described seem to me to stem from changes in their personal 
circumstances which impacted their ability to manage the mortgage, rather than the other 
way around  noting that even with the effect of the SVR increases they were always paying 
less than their initial fixed rate which was affordable before their circumstances changed. That said, I do think that charging them 1.25% more than was fair and reasonable since 
8 November 2016 caused them, in their particular circumstances, considerable difficulties, 
resulting in stress and worry and upset. In the circumstances, I think £750 is fair 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited to:
Re-calculate the redemption balance on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, on the basis that 
the interest rate from time to time was reduced by 1.25% from 8 November 2016 
onwards, with the additional payments Mr and Mrs B made above the revised interest 
treated as periodic capital overpayments.
Calculate the difference between the redemption balance as it actually was in 2020 
and the revised redemption balance (the redress amount).
If the redress amount plus £750 is less than the shortfall written off in 2020, no 
payment will be due to Mr and Mrs B.
If the redress amount plus £750 is more than the shortfall written off in 2020, the 
amount above the shortfall should be paid to Mr and Mrs B, adding simple annual 
interest of 8% running from the redemption date to date of payment. In this 
eventuality, MAS5 may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, 
as required by HMRC. But it should tell Mr and Mrs B what it has deducted so they 
can reclaim the tax if they are entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman