DRN-3249232
The complaint
Mr J complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.  
What happened
Mr J had pet insurance for his dog, insured by Red Sands. In April 2021 the dog had 
sedation for his teeth to be scaled and polished. In June 2021 the dog was sedated to have 
some teeth removed by the vet. Mr J claimed the costs under his policy. Red Sand said 
there was no cover for the claim under the policy terms as:
There wasnt a dental examination that confirmed Mr Js dog had no dental issues 
before the vet noted the gingivitis and calculus (inflammation of the gums and dental 
plaque) in September 2020, and
The scale and polish was done more than three months after the vet recommended 
the procedure.
Mr J complained to us saying due to Covid-19 his dog had to wait for the treatment as his vet 
was concentrating on emergency treatment.  
Our investigator said Red Sands unfairly declined the claim. She said when Mr J became the 
owner of his dog he took him to the vet in June 2020 for a health check and any issues with 
the dogs teeth would have been noted during that appointment. She also said the vet hadnt 
told Mr J the scale and polish needed to be done immediately and taking into account the 
circumstances at the time surrounding Covid-19 it was reasonable that the treatment hadnt 
been done within three months of the gingivitis and calculus being noted. Our investigator 
recommended Red Sands pay the claim, less the excess, plus interest.
Red Sands disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said the lack of any notes 
about dental matters in the vet records at the health check suggested a dental examination 
didnt happen. It considered the September 2020 vet notes suggested the scale and polish 
treatment was meant to take place shortly after the vet advised the need for the treatment.
Before I made a decision I asked Mr J to clarify what costs he was claiming. He said he was 
claiming for the cost of removal of his dogs teeth.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision as I was intending to uphold the complaint but for different 
reasons than our investigator gave. I said:
The policy says:
We will pay up to £1,000 for dental treatment caused by an accident or illness as 
long as a dental examination was carried out by a vet within the last 12 months that 
confirms that there were no previous dental injuries, illnesses or observable changes 
to (dogs name) teeth from his normal state, condition or appearance.
If you are unaware of (dogs name) medical history, you will need to provide us with 
evidence of a recent dental examination from a vet to confirm that there arent any 
existing dental issues.
Any treatment recommended by a vet needs to be carried out within 3 months from 
when diagnosed.
We will not pay for routine crowns, polishing or scale removal.
Red Sands correspondence appears to only focus on the scale and polish treatment Mr Js 
dog had in April 2021. But the policy specifically excludes that treatment and Mr Js clarified 
that hes only claiming for the cost of his dogs teeth removal in June 2021. So Ive 
considered if its fair and reasonable for Red Sands to decline that claim.
The vet notes from 1 July 2020 detail the dogs vital signs and say dental grade 1. So 
I think its likely that at that appointment or the dogs health check in June 2020 the vet did 
do a dental examination. My investigations show there are 5 dental grades, 0-4, increasing 
in severity. Dental grade 1 means the dog had mild plaque and gingivitis.
I think there is evidence of a dental examination as the policy requires. The policy says the 
examination should confirm there were no previous dental injuries, illnesses or observable 
changes to (dogs name) teeth from his normal state, condition or appearance. As the 
examination showed the dog had mild plaque and gingivitis then under the strict policy terms 
theres no cover for the claim.
However, I also have to consider the fair and reasonable situation. In effect the policy term is 
saying that Red Sands wont cover any existing dental problem. I generally only think its fair 
for an insurer to rely on such a term if Mr J was aware that his dog had an existing problem. 
There are no vet notes from the June or July 2020 appointments that suggest the vet spoke 
to Mr J about the dental findings. The first indication from the vet notes that the vet 
discussed the dogs dental issues with Mr J is in September 2020. So I dont think it would 
be fair for Red Sands to say that Mr J had knowledge of his dogs dental problems before 
the vet recommended dental treatment.
The vet notes of 2 September 2020 say:
Teeth got some heavy calculus on molars with gingivitis around it from the up side.
Assessment: Gingivitis.
Plan: Do scale and polish and brush teeth to maintain.
I dont think theres evidence to suggest that at the time the vet told Mr J the scale and polish 
had to be done straightaway. Also, weve checked with Mr Js dogs vet about its practice 
arrangements during that time given the Covid-19 situation. The vet told us that:
We were performing scale and polish procedure's however we were struggling to 
book them in within 3 months due to covid restrictions, meaning we were unable to 
always book indental treatment within the 3 months of our recommendations. As a 
veterinary practice through this time, we were prioritising urgent operations and 
emergencies.
So even if the vet had told Mr J in September 2020 the scale and polish needed to be done immediately (and theres no evidence of that) then the vets evidence that they were 
struggling to book scale and polish treatment within three months means it was 
understandable and reasonable that the dog didnt have the treatment within three months.
In March 2021 the vet notes say:
Examination: Ginginvitis (sic) and moderate calculus.
Assessment: Plan: advised needs teeth done.
The dog had the scale and polish done in April 2021, so a month later, which I think shows 
that when the vet told Mr J the treatment had to be done, and the vet was able to do it, Mr J 
took his dog for the treatment.
For the above reasons I dont think its fair for Red Sands to decline the treatment claimed 
for on the basis that the dental treatment prior to the claim wasnt done within three months 
from when Mr J was informed of the diagnosis.
The vet notes of 6 April 2021 say Mr Js dog will need some teeth removed in one to two 
months time. He had the teeth removed two months later in June 2021 so within three 
months of Mr J being told his dog needed that treatment and as advised by the vet.
Overall the fair and reasonable outcome is for Red Sands to pay Mr Js claim for the cost of 
removal of his dogs teeth, subject to the policy limit, and less the applicable excess. Interest 
should be added as Ive detailed below.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr J accepted my provisional decision and said hed claimed £556.03 for the removal of his 
dogs teeth. Red Sands said it had no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr J accepted, and Red Sands said it had no further comments on, my provisional 
decision Ive no reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional 
findings and these findings I dont think Red Sands fairly declined the claim. I uphold the 
complaint and have set out below what Red Sands needs to do to put things right.
The amount Mr J says he claimed, £556.03, is the cost stated in the vet notes for the dogs 
teeth removal and within the policy limit. Red Sands can deduct the applicable policy excess 
from the amount claimed.
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay Mr Js claim for the cost of removal of his dogs teeth, subject to the 
policy limit, and less the applicable excess. Interest must be added as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mr Js claim for the cost of 
removal of his dogs teeth, subject to the policy limit, and less the applicable excess. Interest* should be added at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr J how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman