The complaint
Mr Ws unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decision to decline 
a claim made on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a policy with Red Sands in October 2018. Mr Ws pet needed treatment for a 
skin condition, for which he made a claim in May 2019. Red Sands declined the claim on the 
grounds the policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions (PEMC). It also 
retrospectively added two exclusion clauses, with effect from the start of the policy, for skin 
conditions and allergies. 
Mr W didnt agree with Red Sands decision, so he complained to us. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. They felt the cause 
of the claim wasnt related to a previous condition and that the exclusion clause didnt fairly 
apply. They asked Red Sands to remove the two, recently added, exclusion clauses and 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms (and add interest if it was 
payable).
Red Sands didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our established approach is that, where an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion clause to 
turn down a claim, its for the insurer to show its fair for it to do so. Its not for the consumer 
to show the clause doesnt apply.
Having considered all the information with that in mind, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
The policy set out what Red Sands wouldnt cover under the policy. These included:
Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates to or 
results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date;
Any injury or illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an accident, injury, 
DRN-1441827illness or clinical signs your pet had before the commencement date;
Red Sands points out that, according to the medical notes for September 2018, Mr Ws pet 
was found to have: 
Some skin lumps  pustules in the head area, some irritated. Getting [worse] in the past 2 
weeks. Adv to vaccinate first and to see him again [in] a week for re-check and possible 
ABs. 
As far as I can see, there were no further references to any similar condition in the pets 
medical history until March 2019.
In March 2019, when treatment for the claim started, Red Sands noted the medical history 
said there were pustules around the ears and on top of the head. Medication was prescribed 
and Mr W was advised to visit for a further consultation in ten days.
In April and May 2019, Mr Ws pet underwent further consultations and treatment until, I 
gather, the issue resolved. 
On the face of it, I can see why Red Sands might believe there to be a link between the 
conditions suffered before the start of the policy and after. However, I believe it reasonable 
to place emphasis on the available expert evidence  in this case, a report from the treating 
vet dated May 2019. 
In the report, the vet said their investigations led to a diagnosis of allergic skin disease 
(atopy). They said this condition wasnt pre-existing and was unrelated to the earlier episode 
their colleague had treated the pet for. The vet said their colleague had treated the pet for 
what was most likely to be puppy impetigo in September 2018, something that often self-
cures and wasnt an allergic skin disease. 
On balance, this explanation seems to me to be plausible. For example, when the pet was 
seen at the vets a week later in September 2018, there was no further reference to the 
pustules noticed previously.  
I realise the vet treating the pet for the claimed condition wasnt the same vet that treated the 
earlier condition, but I remain of the view that their opinion as a treating specialist carries 
significant weight. That opinion hasnt been sufficiently countered by Red Sands.
 
 
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I believe Red Sands should reassess the claim on the basis 
that the condition isnt pre-existing, as described by the vet  albeit in line with the remaining 
policy terms. 
Further, in the circumstances I dont believe it would be fair for Red Sands to add the two 
exclusion clauses its sought to.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to reassess the claim without reference to the relevant exclusion clauses, and in line with the remaining terms. If the claims payable, Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited should also add interest at the annual rate of 8% calculated from 
the date Mr W paid any relevant costs to the date of settlement. No exclusion clauses should 
be added to the policy in relation to the examination in September 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman