The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) turned down a claim made on his 
pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The policy is underwritten by Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) who are 
ultimately responsible for turning down the claim. Mr B purchased the policy through one of 
their agents, and has been dealing with this agent during the claim, but for ease I will refer to 
all actions as being those of Agria.
Mr B made a claim with Agria after his dog, who I'll refer to as "B" in this decision, was taken 
to the vet with symptoms including swelling and conjunctivitis. This was diagnosed by the vet 
as juvenile cellulitis or puppy strangles.
Agria turned down the claim saying B's signs of puppy strangles were noted in vet visits prior 
to the start of the policy. So they considered this a pre-existing condition which wasn't 
covered under the policy. Mr B was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into the claim. After looking at the evidence he thought 
Agria had acted fairly, and in line with terms of the policy, when turning down the claim. Mr B 
remained unhappy, especially due to the way the policy was sold, so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider how Agria looked at evidence when considering the claim. This is 
important as Mr B has concerns about how the policy was sold and his interactions 
with Agria's representative around the time he took B home. Looking at what happened I can 
understand Mr B's concerns, however this decision focuses on how Agria dealt with the 
claim. 
It's clear to me that B has suffered various symptoms and made several trips to the vet. This 
is obviously upsetting for Mr B, especially as B is a young puppy, and has come at a 
financial cost.
Insurance policies can't and don't cover every eventuality. Insurers are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide cover for under a policy. They are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events they don't want to cover. Here the policy doesn't cover any illness or 
DRN-1926556injury that first showed clinical signs before the policy started. Agria have relied upon this 
exclusion when turning down the claim.
Some days before Mr B took B home he was seen by a vet with symptoms including swelling 
around the eyes, conjunctivitis and irritated skin. The vet thought this might be an allergic 
reaction and prescribed B some medication.
B was seen by a vet again two days later, which was just before Mr B took him home. At that 
time B showed symptoms including an inflamed and swollen muzzle well as conjunctivitis. 
The vet said to keep a close eye on B and take him back to the vets if signs reoccur.
Mr B took out the policy with Agria and later took B home. Unfortunately the symptoms 
persisted so B was again seen by a vet who diagnosed puppy strangles. Some medication 
was prescribed and B was allowed home. Mr B made a claim for vet costs.
Agria turned down the claim because the symptoms that led to the diagnosis of puppy 
strangles were present before the policy started. 
Mr B gave Agria a letter from the vet who saw B on the first few occasions before Mr B took 
him home. This said that they hadn't diagnosed puppy strangles. Which, looking at the 
medical records is true. But it's the symptoms that were present prior to the start of the policy 
that are important, not the diagnosis. 
Having looked at all the information I'm satisfied Agria considered the evidence in a fair and 
reasonable way. I'm happy Agria interpreted the medical information about B fairly when 
saying that what happened was a pre-existing condition. The vet's notes from before Mr B 
took out the policy, and took B home, show symptoms of what was ultimately diagnosed as 
puppy strangles. 
That's not to say that Mr B hasn't had a financial cost, and that it hasn't been a difficult time; 
it clearly has. But Agria looked at the medical information for B and applied the policy terms. 
I'm happy this is a fair way of investigating the claim and that Agria acted reasonably on the 
evidence provided. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman