DRN-3026198
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund him for disputed transactions 
he says he didnt make or authorise totalling just over £550. 
What happened
Mr L has an account with Vanquis.
On 20 and 27 December 2017, two transactions were made from Mr Ls account, to an 
online Forex and crypto currency trader, which I will refer to as OC, which Mr L says he 
didnt make or authorise.
  
Mr L has explained that he didnt know anything about the transactions and only discovered 
them when he was checking his bank statement in mid-January 2018, which hed received in 
the post. Hes said that he has never had any dealings with OC, hadnt lost his bank card, 
disclosed his PIN or lost his mobile phone. And that his mobile phone was locked with a 
pass code and fingerprint scanner. Mr L says during the time the disputed transactions were 
made he sometimes left his mobile phone unattended at his place of work.  
Mr L reported the fraud to Vanquis on 15 January 2018. 
Vanquis investigated, which included the bank contacting OC and decided not to refund the 
disputed transactions. It concluded that Mr L had made the transactions himself. In summary 
it said:
Mr L had confirmed his Vanquis credit card was always in his possession. 
Mr L said his phone was protected by fingerprint lock and a pass code, and his 
mobile phone was still in his possession. 
The transactions Mr L disputed were carried out using the mobile number 
registered for Mr L with Vanquis. 
The disputed transactions were verified by VISA, which meant Vanquis sent a 
One Time Code to Mr Ls registered mobile number to verify the transactions as 
genuine. This code was entered correctly into the Verified by VISA security 
screen which confirmed the transactions as valid. 
The IP addressed used for the disputed transaction was the same as a genuine 
transaction made on 16 December 2017.
Mr L confirmed he didnt share his card details with anyone. 
Vanquis Bank called OC who confirmed they had an account with the name and 
email address for Mr L, and that ID was provided during the account set up in 
2012. 
The merchant provided evidence which showed Mr L applied for an account with 
them on 28 July 2012
The application information contained Mr Ls correct date of birth, current 
telephone and email address, his previous address, his employer, occupation 
and his Vanquis credit card details. 
On 20 December 2017 there were two declined transactions to the same 
merchant. One was declined as the passcode sent to Mr Ls number wasnt 
entered before the session expired, and on the other one, the transaction wasnt 
completed.
Mr L disagreed with Vanquiss decision. So, he brought his complaint to this service where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter.
 
Based on the evidence she thought Mr L had more likely than not authorised the 
transactions. In summary she said there was no plausible explanation for how an unknown 
third party could gain access to Mr Ls mobile phone. And do this on two separate occasions 
several days apart. She also said it was unlikely that a fraudster would set up an account 
with OC in Mr Ls details years earlier, then wait more than five years, find Mr L at his new 
workplace, and be able to gain access Mr Ls mobile phone which had fingerprint lock and 
password lock, which the fraudster would have to guess correctly,
Mr L disagreed.  He said hed never made the transactions. And that OC was well known for 
scams. He wants Vanquis to refund the transactions and fees associated with them.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr L and Vanquis have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure Mr L that Ive read the file, including his comments and 
evidence.
 
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr L authorised the 
payments, Vanquis is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). Mr L says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I 
think Mr L authorised the transactions either by making them himself or allowing a third party 
to do so. 
 
Having reviewed Vanquiss technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ls card details were 
used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. Authentication is 
the use of any procedure by which a bank is able to verify the use of a specific payment 
instrument, including its personalised security features. This can be done in a number of 
ways (e.g. chip and PIN, card number, CVV and expiry date etc.)
In this case, Vanquis has been able to provide evidence that for the authentication process 
the signature card details and a One Time Code were used to authenticate the payments. 
Ive seen the electronic records which show the correct card details and correct OTC were 
entered. So, Im satisfied that the payment from Mr Ls account was authenticated. 
But, the regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable 
Vanquis to hold Mr L liable for the transactions. So, I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr L consented to the transactions being 
made or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im persuaded that Mr L did consent to the transactions he 
is disputing. I say this because:Vanquiss technical records show the transactions were made using Mr Ls mobile 
phone after a One Time Code had been sent to his mobile phone. Mr L has told us 
that his finger print was needed to unlock his phone together with a pass code. And 
theres no plausible explanation for how an unknown third party could do this without 
Mr Ls consent. Given the level and type of security in place on Mr Ls phone this 
seems impossible as theyd need his fingerprint.
Mr L says he never received a One Time Code on his mobile phone, but Vanquis has 
provided evidence that these were sent to the mobile phone number registered to 
Mr Ls account at the time. So, I think its likely the codes were sent. 
The disputed transactions took place several days apart. This would mean a 
fraudster would have to take and replace Mr Ls bank card and mobile phone without 
being noticed over a number of days at different times. I dont think that a fraudster 
would risk taking Mr Ls bank card and phone, replacing it, taking it again, completing 
further transactions and then returning them. This back and forth wouldve created an 
unnecessary risk of alerting Mr L that fraudulent transactions were taking place. 
Vanquis has provided evidence from OC that an account in the name of Mr L was 
opened in 2012. The application form had correct personal information about 
Mr L, such as his date of birth, telephone number, email address, postal address, 
employer details at the time, occupation and Vanquis Bank credit card details. Its 
highly unlikely a fraudster would set up an account in the name of Mr L in July 2012, 
with so much correct personal information about him, wait over five years to make 
the two transactions. Especially as Mr L had moved address and got a new job 
during this time. So, the fraudster wouldve had to locate Mr L at his new place of 
work and have access to Mr Ls mobile phone which had fingerprint lock and 
password lock, to make the transactions.
The disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster will 
try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit from 
the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the card is 
cancelled. But this didnt happen. 
The technical evidence provided by Vanquis shows the IP address used to make the 
online transactions was also used to make an undisputed transaction on
16 December 2017. 
Any profits would have been paid into Mr Ls account. So, theres no explanation for 
how a fraudster would have benefitted from the making the transactions. So, it 
doesnt seem likely that anyone would defraud Mr L like this if ultimately any money 
went back to him and the thief didnt make any profit. And had no way of accessing 
the funds. 
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In my view 
the most likely explanation here is that Mr L made the disputed transactions himself.  So, in 
the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Vanquis to refund Mr L the disputed 
transactions. 
Mr L has said that OC is well known for fraud and hes provided several online articles to 
support what hes said. He says Vanquis bank should have spotted the transactions and 
stopped them from going through. So, the banks at fault and should refund him the money 
he says hes lost. Mr L is right that Vanquis has a responsibility to monitor any unusual or 
suspicious payments  however, Im afraid in Mr Ls case Im satisfied that these payments 
didnt fit this criteria. I say this as the payments werent unusually large, they were carried 
out using Mr Ls trusted device and a One Time Code was sent to Mr L. In summary, my primary task has been to decide if Mr L authorised the disputed 
transactions. I cant decide he didnt authorise them just because Vanquis didnt block the 
payments. I have to look at the evidence, which in my view connects him to the disputed 
transactions. And Ive set this out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman