DRN-3990385
The complaint
Mr T complains that Soteria Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, made by a 
premium-brand manufacturer in about 2014. The vehicle had an automatic transmission and 
capability for four-wheel drive.
For the year from April 2019, Mr T had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Soteria under its former name of CIS General Insurance Limited.
Unfortunately, later in 2019, Mr T reported that he had reversed the vehicle into another 
vehicle, causing damage to both.
Mr T reported a knocking noise from the rear of the vehicle.
Soteria arranged for Mr Ts vehicle to go to its  authorised repairer. The repairer didnt think 
the knocking noise was related to the accident.
Mr T asked Soteria to get a vehicle assessor to consider the damage. In February 2020, 
Soteria got a report from a vehicle assessor.
Soterias repairer fixed damage to the rear of the vehicle, but not the knocking noise.
Mr T complained to Soteria that the accident had caused damage to the rear differential, so 
Soteria should repair it.
By a final response dated 10 August 2020, Soteria turned down the complaint, but said it 
would consider any further report that Mr T got on the vehicle.
The next day, Mr T took the vehicle to a garage franchised by the manufacturer. That garage 
gave him an invoice for inspecting the car. It included the following:
IT IS NOT COMMON FOR THESE DIFFERENTIALS TO FAIL. PUTING ON A 
ROAD TEST WE CAN TURN THE REAR DIFFERENTIAL OFF AND THEN ON 
AGAIN , WHEN THE REAR DIFFERENTIAL IS TURNED OFF THE NOISE GOES 
AWAY. THERE IS A POSSIBLITY IMPACT COULD OF CAUSED THIS.

WE CANNOT PROVE THE REAR DIFFERENTIAL HAS FAILED DUE TO AN 
IMPACT AND FORCE PUT THROUGH WHEN MOVING REARWARDS AS THERE 
ARE NO FAULTS AND AN INTERNAL MECHANICAL NOISE, BUT NOISE 
PRESENT SINCE IMPACT REPORTED BY CUSTOMER.
On 11 August 2022, Mr T emailed Soteria about that invoice. On 12 August 2020, Soteria 
said it wouldnt repair the differential.
Mr T brought his complaint to us in September 2020. In November 2020, we told Mr T we 
couldnt investigate until he sent us a policy schedule or certificate of insurance.
Mr T didnt contact us again until July 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Soteria had been fair in their response.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
His vehicle was fine before the accident.
The investigator is wrong to state the damage was not caused by the accident. 
This was a slow speed incident. He crept up to the parking space and thinking he 
was impeded by a grass verge, or something, he applied more force. He didnt 
realise that the back of his vehicle was already in contact with the drivers door of the 
other vehicle. It was the torque required to move his car further back, sadly damaging 
the door of the parked car and his rear crumple zone, that put strain on the electronic 
4- wheel drive differential and caused the fault.
There would be nothing to see on the outside to indicate the stress the differential 
had been put under. It was faulty afterwards, so it was definitely caused by the 
accident.
The insurers vehicle assessor didn't even drive the car, simply looked under it and 
left, without understanding the damage or its cause.
He asks for more time to get another report on his vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2019, the vehicle passed an MOT with a mileage of about 61,000.
I accept that Mr T hadnt noticed any unusual noise from the vehicle before the accident.
The accident happened in late July 2019, but he had the vehicle serviced in mid-August 
2019, asked the garage about the knocking noise and took it on a holiday before he reported 
the accident in late September 2019 (from what Mr T told us in September 2020).
The repairer didnt regard the accident as having caused the knocking noise. But, from what 
Ive seen, the repairer was more specialist in the business of bodywork rather than 
mechanical repairs.
The vehicle assessors report in February 2020 related to the rear suspension, rather than 
the rear differential. So I dont place much weight on that report.
I place more weight on the report Mr T got in August 2020 from the franchised garage. I say 
that because that garage mustve been familiar with such vehicles. I note that the garage 
noted the mileage as about 70,000.
Since Mr T first brought the complaint to us, the vehicle has passed MOT tests as follows:
in October 2020, with a mileage of about 71,000.in October 2021, with a mileage of about 79,000.
in October 2022, with a mileage of about 89,000.
Since the accident, over three years have passed, and the vehicle is likely to have done 
between 20,000 and 30,000 miles. For that reason, I would find the franchised garages 
report in August 2020 more persuasive than any report of another engineer at this late stage. 
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to wait another three or four weeks for another 
inspection and report. 
In my view, Mr T faces the following insurmountable obstacles in showing that Soteria 
treated him unfairly by not repairing the differential:
He didnt report the accident  or the knocking noise - to Soteria for about two 
months. I dont find that consistent with a sudden onset of a knocking noise 
immediately after the accident.
His franchised garage report says that  whilst it is possible  the garage cannot 
prove the rear differential has failed due to the accident.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Soteria to repair the differential or to pay 
compensation or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Soteria Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman