DRN-4425349
Complaint
Mr T has complained about a personal loan Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) provided to him. 
He says that the loan was unaffordable and so should never have been lent to him.
Background
Ikano provided Mr T with a loan for £15,000.00 in April 2016. 
Mr Ts loan had an APR of 14.9% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £20,979.40, which included interest, fees and charges of £5,979.76, was due 
to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £349.66 followed by a final instalment of £349.52. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr T and Ikano had told us. And he thought that 
Ikano hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly. So he didnt recommend that     
Mr Ts complaint be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint.
Ikano needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Ikano needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr T could 
afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ikano says it agreed to Mr Ts application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a 
credit search it carried out. And in its view, all of this information showed Mr T could afford to 
make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr T has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr T and Ikano have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ts first loan with Ikano. The information 
provided does suggest Mr P was asked to provide some details regarding his income and 
expenditure and Ikano didnt just rely on what it was told as it carried out a credit search too. 
The credit search that Ikano carried out did indicate that Mr T did have some existing debt.
 
But Mr Ts existing debt was relatively reasonably maintained as he only had one late 
payment and he quickly brought this up to date. During the underwriting call Mr T had with 
Ikano, he explained that this late payment was because of a miscalculation of interest. And 
as Mr T quickly brought this account back up to date, Im satisfied that Ikano was entitled to 
rely on what Mr T said. 
Furthermore, I can also see that Mr T committed to clearing an existing credit card balance 
in its entirety with the proceeds from this loan. The information suggests that if Mr T had 
done this in the way that he committed to, the loan repayments would be affordable for him. I 
dont know if Mr T cleared his credit card balance in this way and/or whether he went on to 
establish further debt on it.
However, Ikano could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. It wont have known whether Mr T would clear his balance and if he did 
whether he would go on to re-establish balances on his credit card. All Ikano could do was 
take reasonable steps and rely on assurances from Mr T that the balance would be repaid 
with these funds. Indeed the notes from the underwriting call Ikano had with Mr T said that 
not only was Mr T committing to clearing his balance completely and making lower monthly 
repayments as a result, hed also close the account concerned too. 
So Im satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to clear the 
outstanding balance on one of Mr Ts existing credit cards at a cheaper interest rate. It was 
also Mr Ts responsibility to close his credit card account once hed repaid it. This was an 
account with a different provider and Ikano wasnt in a position to close the credit card for  
Mr T. And as this was a first loan Ikano was arranging for Mr T, there wasnt a history of Mr T 
obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he committed to 
either. So Ikano was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr T would be left in a better 
position.
Its possible  but by no means certain - that if Ikano had gone into the depth of checks Mr T 
appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  it might have 
reached a different answer. But the key here thing is that I dont think the circumstances of 
the lending here warranted obtaining bank statements. Ikano was arranging a loan which 
wasnt going to be increasing Mr Ts overall indebtedness. 
Given the circumstances, Id expect Ikano to have a reasonable idea of Mr Ts income and 
committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather than a complete review of  
Mr Ts finances. And given this loan had a monthly repayment of around £350 and it ran to 
term, its difficult for me to logically conclude that Mr T borrowed the other loans he has 
mentioned to repay this loan. The providers he has referred to didnt lend Mr T amounts that 
would accord with loan repayments at a time they were being made.
I accept that Mr Ts actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Ikano obtained. For example, its possible that   
Mr Ts wife didnt return to work in the way that he told the underwriter that she would, or       Mr T wasnt able to rely on parents to look after children in the way he said he would be able 
to and therefore incurred unanticipated childcare costs. 
But given the circumstances here, Ikano was entitled to rely on what Mr T was saying was 
accurate. For the sake of completeness I should also add that while Ive seen what Mr T has 
said about this being a high-cost loan and the interest rate was above prime averages, it is 
nonetheless more likely than not lower than the interest rate on the credit card Mr T was 
clearing. Furthermore, the APR itself is not high enough to be classified as high cost and as 
far as I am aware, the regulator does not consider Ikano to be a high-cost lender.    
As this is the case and bearing in mind everything, I dont think that Ikano did anything wrong 
when deciding to lend to Mr T - it carried out proportionate checks (although I accept that    
Mr T disputes this) and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Ikano treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably when providing him 
with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr T. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman