DRN-1501789
The complaint
Mrs S complains that One Insurance Limited declined her claim on her motor insurance 
policy. She wants it to pay for her cars repair.
What happened
The wheel fell off Mrs Ss car whilst she was driving, and her car was damaged. One 
Insurance said this could be caused by wear and tear or by Mrs S failing to protect her car. 
And so it relied on these policy exclusions to decline the claim. Mrs S thought there may 
have been an attempted theft which had loosened the wheel nuts. She was without her car 
for two months and suffered inconvenience until she had the car repaired herself.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
wasnt reasonable evidence that Mrs S had failed to protect her car. She also thought One 
Insurance hadnt reasonably investigated the claim to establish whether the damage had 
been caused by wear and tear. So she thought One Insurance had unfairly declined the 
claim. She thought it should pay for the repairs and pay Mrs S £150 compensation for her 
trouble and upset.
One insurance asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision. It thought there wasnt evidence of an attempted theft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
One Insurance said it initially declined the claim because it said there wasnt any evidence of 
vandalism or accident. So it relied on the policy condition that cover wasnt provided in the 
case of wear and tear. Ive looked at Mrs Ss policy documents and I can see that there is an 
exclusion for wear and tear.
Mrs S complained and One Insurance had an independent engineer inspect the car. He 
noted that the car had been recently serviced and he said the wheel nuts were taken off and 
not checked afterwards as normally recommended. He acknowledged that Mrs S thought 
there may have been attempted theft. But he said there were no signs of theft. He thought it 
more likely that the damage was due to wear and tear. And so One Insurance continued to 
decline the claim. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
repairs.
So Ive looked to see if its reasonable for One Insurance to decide that the damage was 
caused by wear and tear.
Mrs S said the car had been serviced two months before the incident. Mrs S said she wasnt 
told to return the car to have the wheel nuts tightened. I dont think this is usual, so I dont 
think its reasonable for One Insurance to say that she failed to protect her car. 
The car then passed its MOT a month later. I think if there had been a problem with the 
wheel nuts, this would have been picked up then. But there was nothing in the MOT report 
that suggested there was anything wrong with the wheels. The incident occurred later in the 
same month and I dont think it likely that the wheel nuts deteriorated in this short-time.
I think One Insurance reasonably had an independent engineer inspect the car. But, from 
what I can see, the independent engineer didnt take the wheel off to examine the condition 
of the car. The car wasnt taken to a garage for a thorough inspection. The engineer didnt 
explain what wear and tear had caused the wheel to come off. And he didnt rule out 
attempted theft entirely.
I think One Insurance decided that the damage had been caused by wear and tear in the 
absence of evidence of attempted theft. But I dont think this is fair or reasonable. This is 
because I dont think its investigation of the damage was sufficient to establish that wear and 
tear had caused the wheel to come off. 
So I think One Insurance hasnt justified its decision to decline the claim and not pay for the 
car to be repaired.
Putting things right
Mrs S had to pay £2,100 to have her car repaired. I think One Insurance should reasonably 
reimburse her for this amount, on provision of reasonable evidence, as it unfairly declined 
her claim. 
Mrs S has been without her money for some time, so I think One Insurance should 
reasonably add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement . 
Mrs S was without her car for two months whilst she awaited the outcome of her complaint 
and then decided to have her car repaired. I can see that she had access to another family 
members car during this time, but this did cause her inconvenience as she had to walk with 
her children to collect the car. 
The investigator recommended that One Insurance should pay Mrs S £150 compensation for 
her distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair decision. Considering the impact this 
had on Mrs S, I think thats fair and reasonable. Its what Id require in similar circumstances. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires One Insurance to take off tax from this interest. One 
Insurance must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to make the redress and pay Mrs S the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman