DRN-3777508
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr B opened a credit card account with Barclaycard. He had an account limit of 
£9,200 which remained the same over the life of the account to date. 
Mr B says that Barclaycard shouldnt have lent to him because he couldnt afford it. He says 
if Barclaycard had done checks on him which it should have done it would have realised he 
had a lot of debt.
Barclaycard initially said that it did all the necessary and proportionate checks, and these 
showed that Mr B could afford the credit that was extended to him. However, our investigator 
reviewed Mr Bs complaint and considered that this wasnt the case. Our investigator upheld 
Mr Bs complaint and directed Barclaycard compensate Mr B by refunding any interest and 
charges Mr B had incurred during the course of the credit relationship. Barclaycard accepted 
this outcome.
While both parties agreed that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld, Mr B was not happy with 
the level of compensation directed. He thought that he should be awarded compensation in 
excess of the interest and charges. He said he had really suffered as a result of the decision 
to lend to him.
As Mr B disagreed with the redress, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Mr Bs complaint.
Both parties agree with the substance of the investigators view  that Barclaycard should 
not have provided the credit to Mr B and that he lost out as a result. I do not propose to 
repeat the reasons for this in detail other than to explain that Barclaycard didnt take the 
reasonable steps needed to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. Barclaycard should have 
carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could afford to repay what he was being 
lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, Mr Bs borrowing history 
and his income and expenditure. 
In reviewing the checks that were done the investigator concluded that Barclaycard didnt 
properly take into account information it had about additional borrowing Mr B had elsewhere 
and how much income he had to make sustainable repayments on that borrowing and the 
additional lending he was seeking from Barclaycard. I agree with this assessment, as now 
does Barclaycard.
When a complaint is upheld, this service normally expects the business to put the 
complainant in the position they would be now if the problem hadnt happened.
In Mr Bs case, our investigator acknowledged this wouldnt be entirely possible. Mr B had 
already spent the money that he had been lent and so he had had the benefit of those funds 
to buy goods or services. Our investigator thought, however, that it was fair that Mr B be 
refunded the interest he paid on the lending and also that any charges, for example for late 
payment or going over his credit limit, be refunded. This would reduce the amount that Mr B 
still owes on the credit card.
Mr B wasnt happy with this proposed settlement. He explained that he had experienced 
mental health problems and had had to enter into a debt management plan because his 
finances were so poor. He feels that it would be fair to reduce his balance further. 
Ive considered this very carefully. There is no dispute that Mr B has had significant debt 
issues and is still experiencing problems related to this. I am very sorry to hear Mr B has 
experienced mental health problems as a result. 
I can understand that cumulatively Mr B was under a lot of pressure because of his overall 
financial situation. I also have to consider the specific impact of the mistake by Barclaycard 
on Mr B, rather than punish Barclaycard for the mistake itself. Mr B was in debt to a lot of 
businesses, so it is impossible to tell what the specific impact Barclaycards decision to lend 
to him may have had on Mr B. Barclaycard has pointed out that Mr B transferred a balance 
from an interest-charging credit card to Barclaycard so he had the benefit of 0% interest on a 
large sum for a considerable period. It is not clear to me that but for Barclaycards decision 
to lend to Mr B he would have had better mental health or a much different financial position. 
I also have to consider that Mr B continued to use the credit card knowing he would have 
difficulty paying it off. 
On balance, I do not think it is fair to direct Barclaycard to pay compensation in addition to 
that already directed. This is because I am not satisfied that without Barclaycards actions in 
lending to Mr B, Mr B would not have experienced the problems he did.
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclaycard ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr B 
should pay back the amounts he has borrowed because he has had the benefit of that 
spending. I understand that Mr Bs account was sold on to a third party and is still 
outstanding.  Therefore, Barclaycard should:
1. Work out all of the interest and charges Mr B has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Barclaycard should reduce the outstanding capital 
balance by the amount calculated at step 1. 
3. If, after step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Barclaycard should 
ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest or charges. But if step 2 
leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mr B and 8% simple interest should be added to the surplus.
4. Barclaycard should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as 
a result of the interest and charges.
Barclaycard has already confirmed that step 4 does not apply in Mr Bs case because the 
total of the interest and charges did not cause it to record adverse information on Mr Bs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Barclaycard to deduct tax from this interest. If it does, the business must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the 
refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint about the decision to provide him with credit and I direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay compensation as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman