DRN-3627666
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy and that it turned down her claim. 
Although Mrs Ks representative brought her complaint to this Service I will refer to Mrs K 
throughout this decision for ease.
What happened
Mrs K made a claim under her motor insurance policy after her car had been stolen following 
a burglary at a new house she was moving into. Her house was broken into and the police 
attended during the early evening. And her car was subsequently stolen during the early 
hours of the following morning. 
Mrs K reported the theft to the police and Calpe, but Calpe turned the claim down. It looked 
into the circumstances surrounding the theft but didnt think Mrs K had presented a true 
version of events and turned down the claim. It got the one key analysed that remained in 
Mrs Ks possession which showed the key was last used on the morning of the theft, as 
opposed to the evening time when Mrs K drove to the house she was moving to. As Mrs K 
wasnt happy about this she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ks complaint and upheld it. She looked into the case but 
thought Calpe didnt have sufficient evidence to turn the claim down. Although the key data 
only showed that Mrs Ks car had been driven in the morning it was possible the key didnt 
update when Mrs K drove to her property as she didnt go above the relevant speed for the 
key to update. So she thought Calpe should settle the claim, remove any cancellation 
markers, only charge Mrs K time on cover up to the date of claim, and pay £1,200 
compensation for the clear stress, inconvenience and for loss of use.
As Calpe didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Calpe have suspicions about the theft given the key data that has 
been provided. But I dont think it has sufficient evidence to say that Mrs K was somehow 
involved in the theft as it has implied. 
What is clear is Mrs Ks house was broken into and the police attended her property. She 
was obviously scared and got her ex-partner to come and sit with her at the address and did 
the best to blockade the front of the house while they waited for the front door to be boarded 
up. She called the police again as she heard people outside and was nervous, but the police 
didnt attend before her car was stolen during the early hours. So, it doesnt appear in 
question that the car was stolen at this time and confirmation can be provided by the police, 
Mrs K, her ex-partner, and a small amount of CCTV footage from the time of the theft. 
Calpes investigator said the theft may possibly be genuine but this is not certain which is 
far from conclusive. And the key report explains that Mrs Ks model of car is susceptible to 
relay theft and the use of a remote jammer to steal the car. And also highlights that the last 
time and use of the key Mrs K still had in her possession is at odds with her account. This is 
because there is a difference of 12 hours from when the last use was recorded and when 
Mrs K last used the vehicle. However, as our investigator explained to Calpe it is possible 
Mrs Ks journeys later that day didnt get to the required speed (over 30 mph) to trigger a 
record on the key. And this casts some doubt on the major piece of information that Calpe 
has relied on in declining the claim.
I know Mrs K wasnt sure where her spare key was at the time of the theft, but it seems more 
than likely that the key was in the house when she was burgled earlier in the evening which 
the thieves stole. And as Mrs K wasnt really aware where the key was, probably because 
she was in the middle of moving to a new house, she didnt really think that the burglars 
could access the car. And it is also possible, as the key analysis report showed, the car was 
stolen by relay theft or some other means.
Finally, I note Calpe says it has other concerns and that Mrs K may have been withholding 
information. But Ive considered the report and witness statement she provided, and I think 
her account has been consistent throughout. She just couldnt be sure the spare key was in 
the house when she was burgled the evening before her car was stolen. This was because 
she hadnt moved all her things across at that point in time and just wasnt sure where the 
spare key was kept. However, upon reflection, she feels the burglars who broke into her 
property and stole a number of items must have taken the spare key and then returned to 
take the car during the night after Mrs K returned home. I note the police suggested that this 
kind of theft after a burglary wasnt uncommon in the area when they attended in relation to 
her stolen car.
Given all of this, I cant say Calpe have sufficient evidence to say that Mrs Ks account is 
untruthful, and I dont think it would be fair to rely solely on its impression or the key 
analysis in this instance. And so the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is to uphold this complaint and pay the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy paying 8% simple interest for the time Mrs K 
has been without payment. And remove any record of the cancellation.
Furthermore, I agree that Mrs K has faced a fair degree of stress and inconvenience in 
having her claim turned down. It must have been so difficult for her to deal with this after the 
burglary and theft of her car. And she has been without a car as she was still paying the 
finance on her stolen car so had to pay for public transport and taxis although she was able 
to use a family members car at times. Given all of this I agree that Calpe should pay her 
£1,200 by way of compensation and loss of use.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited to:
pay Mrs Ks claim for the theft of her car in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of her policy;
remove any record of the cancellation from all internal or external databases;
ensure Mrs K only pays for time on cover up to the date of claim and pay 8% simple interest on any money owed from the time of claim until the date of 
settlement; and
pay £1,200 in compensation to include loss of use.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman