DRN-3715520
The complaint
Miss B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has refused to refund her a £1,800 faster 
payment which she says she didnt make to an existing payee on her online account. Miss B 
said she had been contacted by someone claiming to be from HSBC who then locked her 
account and paid out this payment to one her payees. 
What happened
On 1 December 2020 HSBC said it received an allegation that a credit of £420 to Miss Bs 
account had been attained fraudulently. When HSBC contacted Miss B, she explained she 
hadnt been expecting that amount into her account. In the meantime, a block was placed on 
her account which was then removed in July 2021. Following its investigation HSBC decided 
on no further action with Miss B in relation to this £420. 
 
However, at this time Miss B also told HSBC that she had been contacted from someone 
purporting to be from HSBC who locked her account and this payment of £1,800 was then 
made to an existing payee of Miss Bs who is now a former friend. HSBS said Miss B told 
them this payee said her bank wouldnt accept the payment in of this £1,800 and had 
returned it to HBSC. Miss B said it was never refunded to her account.
 
So, Miss B complained to HSBC on 19 October 2021. HSBC then raised the complaint and 
its fraud team made contact with Miss B by phone on 2 November 2021 who couldnt take 
the call. So, HSBC asked her to phone it back. HSBC said Miss B never called back so it 
closed its file. 
HSBC now says that Miss B never raised the issue of the £1,800 payment before when the 
investigations were going on December 2020 about the credit of £420. And it said as she 
never responded to its contact on 2 November 2021, it had closed its file. 
The investigator said that given this, she didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly. Miss B asked 
for an ombudsmans decision, so her complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Before Miss Bs case reached me, Miss B did contact HSBC who told her that as she never 
called back when requested in November 2021, and now that shes referred the matter to us, 
it wouldnt enter any further comments at this stage until the response from this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2023 and I said the following: 
In HSBCs final response letter to Miss B dated 24 February 2022, it explained that it 
had contacted her on 2 November 2021 asking Miss B to contact it, but that she 
never did. So that meant no further action was taken. 
HSBC also raised concerned as to why Miss B waited from December 2020 until 
October 2021 to raise the issue over this £1,800 payment from her to her payees 
account. However, I consider since Miss B had a block on her account up until July 
2021, the delay may not be entirely her own fault consequently. 
We also asked HSBC why it had a block on her account for such an extended time. It 
has now said this was in order to ensure no further credits which might have been 
potentially fraudulent would credit Miss Bs account until the account was secured. 
However, this was in relation the £420 issue not the missing £1,800 issue. HSBC 
also confirmed it viewed Miss B as a victim and not a suspect.
 
As HSBC didnt make enquiries, we approached the bank which held the account for 
Miss Bs former friend to which the payment of £1,800 was sent from Miss Bs bank 
account. It didnt tell us that the £1,800 wasnt paid into Miss Bs friends account, as 
Miss B said she had been told.   And it explained it then closed the account which 
meant all funds were then exited from this account. 
The issue with the £420 and the still missing £1,800 happened all around the same 
time, Further, its clear from the available statements that Miss B had never made 
such large payments before either to this former friend or otherwise. There was no 
query about the transfer from HSBC at the time either to Miss B. Miss B of course 
was of the view that she was dealing with an HSBC employee at the time the 
transaction was made, given the fraudsters phone call gaining access to her 
account. Therefore, I consider based on the contemporary evidence that HSBC 
thought Miss B was the victim here, and given Miss Bs account of being contacted 
by someone purporting to be from HSBC that its more likely Miss B was also the 
victim as regards this missing £1,800 too, given its all around the same time. It is 
more than likely she was a victim of RAT fraud. Further there are system notes of an 
attempted loan application at the same time. This suggests to me that HSBC 
believed someone other than Miss B was assessing her account at the time. Miss B 
has always been consistent in explaining that she didnt make this £1,800 payment.
 
Its also regrettable that HSBC didnt investigate the matter and that Miss B didnt call 
back at the time as promised to enable it to investigate the matter then. I do consider 
there was sufficient information available to enable some investigation too. And its 
regrettable that HSBC didnt wish to investigate the matter once it came to this 
service as that would have been helpful regardless. 
On balance, I dont think Miss B authorised the payment of £1,800 from her account 
 it seems more likely than not some third party had gained control of her online 
banking at the time and made the payment without her authorisation. That therefore 
means its reasonable for HSBC to refund this given it wasnt authorised by Miss B. 
Given the unexpected receipt of the £420 to Miss Bs account, the refund from HSBC 
of the £1,800 should also be less the £420 received.  Therefore, I consider HSBC 
should now refund Miss B this £ 1,380 adding 8% interest. 
I also consider given this matter was so delayed and that her account was blocked 
for such an extensive period of time being six months that this all caused Miss B 
some considerable trouble and upset. Therefore, I consider HSBC should pay her 
£300 compensation in addition.
Miss B accepted my provisional decision, but she didnt think the compensation suggested 
was reasonable. She felt it didnt take account of the time she wasted in chasing things up 
and the time it took constantly going into the branch to try and sort things out. The matter 
also left her financially broke and unable to pay bills. She said that mentally and physically 
the entire matter was very traumatic for her. And she felt that the compensation amount 
didnt take into account the three years it has taken for the matter to be resolved. 
HSBC accepted my provisional decision and said it had refunded the sum of £1,380 on 15 
May 2023 and will pay the interest and the compensation. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, on the basis both parties have agreed with my provisional decision 
(excepting the compensation amount) I see no reason to change it. 
Turning to Miss Bs comments about the compensation, I remain of the view that its fair for 
the primary reason that had Miss B called HSBC back as she indicated she would do 
following its call to her on 2 November 2021, it is more likely this matter would have resolved 
sooner. Therefore, I dont consider this initial delay had anything to do with HSBC. 
Also, Miss B said she was able to set up a new bank account with another bank so besides 
the loss of the money, she was otherwise not so grossly inconvenienced. 
Our awards of compensation are to only reflect the consumers distress and inconvenience 
caused by the business. That excludes the actions of the fraudsters and indeed any delays 
at the consumers hand. Furthermore, there are not meant to serve as a punishment or fine 
against the business either. Consequently, I remain of the view that £300 compensation is 
fair and reasonable given the particular circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
So, for those reasons, its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the following:
Refund Miss B the sum of £1,380, adding interest of 8% simple from the date it left 
Miss B account believed to be 1 December 2020 to the date of its refund. If income 
tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Miss B for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Miss B £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman