DRN-4031780
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the amount Tesco Underwriting Limited paid in settlement of her 
motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs E was involved in a car accident and made a claim on her car insurance policy. Tesco 
deemed the car a total loss and decided to settle the claim by paying its market value. It 
initially valued Mrs Es car at £6,990 but she thought it was too low and after further 
discussions it increased its valuation to £7,988.
Mrs E still wasnt happy with its offer, but Tesco thought its valuation was fair. It said it 
consulted two motor valuation guides and used the average of their values. Mrs E wasnt 
happy with this and brought her complaint to our service, she said the mileage on her car 
was below average, it had a full-service history and was in excellent condition. Mrs E says 
the market for second-hand cars is high and it would cost more to replace her car at this 
time.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. After carrying out his own 
research using the valuation guides, he thought Tescos offer was fair. Mrs E didnt accept 
our investigators opinion. She doesnt think the guide prices are accurate because they rely 
on historic prices. Mrs E think actual prices in the current market should be used, and not 
prices from October 2022. As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I reached a different outcome to our investigator and Ill explain why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mrs Es policy, Tesco must pay her the market value of the car.
The policy defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Mrs E says in the current market she couldnt replace her car for the amount Tesco paid her. 
The valuation of a used car isnt an exact science and it is standard practice for the industry 
to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And I dont find it 
unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. 
We dont tend to find adverts as reliable as the motor guides and the reason for this is 
because it is difficult to know what a car will eventually sell for from the advert; and 
advertised prices can vary widely  and variations, such as age and mileage, can 
significantly impact the eventual price a car is sold for. However, adverts have their place 
and are a good indication as to whether the values produced by the guides are reasonable.
I wrote to both parties and explained that Tesco relied on values from two valuation guides, 
CAP and Glasss, which produced figures of £8,095 and £7,880, respectively. But, as per 
our usual approach, Ive considered figures from four valuation guides, CAP,  Glasss, 
Cazoo and Autotrader. Ive also considered examples of advertised prices for similar cars 
sold around the time of the loss, as well as others sold more recently. Further still, Ive 
considered advertised prices for similar cars currently available in the market. In my 
research I only found one car that sold for around the amount Tesco offered Mrs E. All other 
examples priced similar cars higher than has been offered. So, I think its unlikely Mrs E 
would have been able to replace her car for £7,988, particularly once Ive taken into 
consideration it's lower than average mileage.
I think its fair to exclude Glasss valuation of £7,880 from calculations, as this is lower than 
any of the advertised prices Ive seen. From our research CAP produced a value of £7,995. 
Even if I were to rely on the value Tesco obtained from CAP of £8,095, I dont find this fairly 
reflects prices for similar cars Ive seen. So, I think its fair to exclude its valuation from its 
calculations also.
Our investigators research found, the other two guides valued Mrs Es car at £8,583 and 
£8,757. I find these valuations are more in line with what Ive seen. So, I think a fair way to 
resolve things would be to rely on the average of these values. So, I think Tesco should 
increase its valuation of Mrs E's car to £8,670. Tesco should also pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on the difference from the date it first paid Mrs E to the date the additional payment is 
made. Tesco already accepted this, but Mrs E still thinks its low based on adverts she has 
seen. 
As I said above the valuation of a used car is not an exact science and can be challenging. I 
think its important to also note that car dont always sell for the price advertised once 
negotiations take place. All things considered, Im satisfied this is fair way to settle things.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to: 
Increase its valuation to £8,670 and pay Mrs E the difference between this figure and 
what its already paid her. 
It should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the difference from the date it made 
its initial settlement payment to the date the additional payment is made. *
*If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs E how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Oluwatobi BalogunOmbudsman