DRN-3273745
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) have declined her claim for 
a lost mobile phone and cancelled the policy.
What happened
Ms B purchased mobile phone insurance which covered her for accidental damage, loss and 
theft in June 2021. In August 2021 she contacted Assurant to report her mobile phone lost 
and to make a claim.
She explained that the phone was being used by a family member and they had lost the 
phone between the hotel and the beach whilst away on holiday in the UK. 
As Assurant needed more information in relation to the loss, they asked Ms B to call back 
with the family member or they could add him to the account so he could speak to them 
directly. Ms B called back once she had to spoken to the individual and understood the 
circumstances of the loss.
Assurant asked a number of questions to establish the events that led to the loss. They 
asked if the registered sim was in the handset at the time, and Ms B confirmed it was. They 
asked again if Ms B was certain this was the case and confirmed the sims phone number 
was the one ending 369. Ms B confirmed thats what the family member had told her. Ms B 
also confirmed the lost phone was the only phone the family member used.
The agent asked why there hadnt been any use of the phone for a few weeks, Ms B said 
she understood her family member had used it to call her the day before on the day of the 
loss but this wasnt what Assurant understood based on the information they had. They 
confirmed it was last used on 29 July 2021 and the sim was placed into another handset.
Because of this the agent advised that the claim was rejected as Ms B had provided 
misleading information that wasnt correct in relation to the evidence they have. They also 
cancelled the policy. This was also confirmed in their final response to Ms B.
Ms B referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think Assurant had acted 
unfairly and didnt uphold the complaint. As Ms B remained unhappy it has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Ms B but Ive explained my reasoning below.
Assurant have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject 
a claim unreasonably. The policy terms and conditions set out the agreement on which is 
cover is provided.
It says:
It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone 
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all the questions honestly 
and to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your 
policy or the payment of your claim.
If false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then we will: not 
honour the claim and we will cancel your policy.
When considering a claim, its reasonable for Assurant to ask for some information to satisfy 
itself the claim is valid, as it did in Ms Bs case. The information provided about the use of 
the phone and sim didnt match the evidence Assurant had obtained. They found that the 
phone was last used on 29 July 2021 and at that point the registered sim was then placed 
into another phone for the day until being placed into another separate phone until 8 August 
2021. There isnt any usage for that sim from this point on. Ms B said the registered sim was 
in the phone at the point of loss. But based on the data Assurant obtained, they said this was 
incorrect. 
Assurant have provided evidence showing the dates the sim was active in the lost handset 
and various other handsets and it shows the last date of use for the phone being claimed for 
was 29 July 2021. So the evidence suggests the registered sim couldnt have been in the 
phone at the time of the loss.
If the family member had lost the phone on 12 August 2021 and called Ms B that day as she 
said, before the loss occurred, there would have been a record of this. But the sim isnt 
recorded in any phone after 8 August 2021 and there isnt any usage for the phone after the 
29 July 2021 so the evidence shows the sim information Ms B provided was incorrect. 
I note Assurant asked more than once about the sim that was in the phone at the time of the 
loss, they also asked if the family member used other phones. Ms B confirmed the 
information provided about the sim was correct, and that no other phones were used. So I 
think they gave Ms B reasonable time to say if she was unsure. Having listened to the call 
she appeared fairly certain of the information provided to her.
The terms and conditions are clear about the importance of providing accurate information.
I appreciate Ms B was relaying information she had received from a family member but she 
was given the option for her family member to speak to Assurant directly to answer any 
questions. And given that she was relaying information on behalf of someone else its 
important she took care to get the facts right. However, even if the family member had 
spoken to Assurant directly, I find it unlikely to have made a difference as having listened to 
the others persons version of events they would have provided the same information about 
the sim. 
Following the investigators opinion, Ms Bs family member said he didnt have a pin on the 
phone and anyone could have taken the sim out and used the phone. He said his work 
friends could have changed sims as a joke. He also said the registered sim was in the phone 
when he went on holiday and anyone could have changed the sim. He said when he came 
back from his holiday he told Ms B about the lost phone straight away as he didnt have a 
phone to call her so he had to wait until he got back to tell her. Whilst anyone could have changed sims, the information Assurant have relied on is before 
the loss occurred not after the loss. Ms Bs family member has confirmed the registered sim 
was in the phone at the time of the loss but the evidence suggests otherwise.
Ms B is unhappy that she is paying for a phone contract she cant use as she doesnt have a 
phone. This is something Assurant arent responsible for and Ms B will need to take up with 
the contract provider.
Overall, Im satisfied Assurant havent declined the claim unfairly as the evidence supports 
their reasoning, that the information Ms B provided was misleading and conflicting. It also 
wasnt unreasonable to cancel the policy in the circumstances as the information provided 
about the loss wasnt supported by the evidence. The actions they took were in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman