DRN-3587857
The complaint
Mr H complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
PrisWM Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things consistent, 
Ill refer mainly to PrisWM.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr H was concerned about what some of the early announcements by his employer meant 
for the security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was 
referred to PrisWM which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information 
gathered about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were 
broadly as follows:
Mr H had accrued around 28 years of pension benefits with the BSPS. He was 45 
years old, married with a teenager and also a young adult child. 
He and Mrs H lived in a home worth £150,000. They also owned rental properties 
worth around £150,000. It seems they were making good progress in reducing their 
total mortgage costs, with a mortgage remaining on only one property.
Mr H earned around up to £42,000 per year in the steel industry. After all their 
monthly household expenses, he and Mrs H had some modest disposable income 
left over. Mr and Mrs H had existing savings of around £30,000. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Hs BSPS was approximately 
£417,685. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Mr H had told the adviser hed 
like to retire earlier than this if possible.
Mr H had joined the new defined contribution (DC) TATA Steel pension as a 
consequence of the BSPS closing to ongoing contributions.
PrisWM set out its advice in a suitability report on 16 August 2017. In this it advised Mr H to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. PrisWM 
said this would allow Mr H to achieve his objectives. Mr H accepted this advice and so 
transferred out. In 2021 Mr H complained to PrisWM about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr H then referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. PrisWM didnt agree. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PrisWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, PrisWM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Hs best interests. 
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Introductory issues
PrisWM was gathering information and ultimately advised Mr H at a time when there was 
significant uncertainty and updates being issued about what was happening with the BSPS 
and the BSPS2. This included confirmation that sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that 
details of the scheme would follow and that members would have until December 2017 to 
make a choice. 
It was also explained that the expected payment into the BSPS by Mr Hs employer was 
likely to result in an improvement to transfer values and that members with unexpired 
transfer values would be sent updated valuations  probably improved ones  which would 
be guaranteed until at least December 2017. A strategic lump sum payment to the BSPS 
was also confirmed just before PrisWM gave Mr H advice. 
However, PrisWM proceeded with the advice to Mr H without really accounting for any of 
this. It didnt delay providing the advice so there were no comparisons carried out of the 
benefits the BSPS2 would potentially provide. And the advice was based on the CETV Mr H 
had received in June 2017, which was due to expire in September 2017. 
So, all the ongoing announcements indicated there would be forthcoming information 
available. In my view this meant that in order to give Mr H enough information to make a fully 
informed decision about what was in his best interests, I think PrisWM should have told him 
to defer making a final decision on possibly transferring away until further details of the 
BSPS2 were known and revised transfer values received. Transferring out of a DB scheme 
is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme 
are usually lost forever. 
The announcements indicated thus far were that Mr H would be afforded time to think about 
his options  so the deadline in the original transfer quotation became less relevant. And 
waiting wouldve allowed PrisWM to carry out an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and to 
properly compare these to the alternatives, and base its advice on this. Without doing this, 
PrisWM was acting on information which it knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it 
could properly assess whether a transfer was in Mr Hs best interests.
Financial viability 
PrisWM referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, PrisWM used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the 
critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr H was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
In my view, PrisWM could also have been clearer in its suitability report about the critical 
yield rates. For example, we know the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age 
of 65 in the BSPS, was 6.8% if Mr H took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a 
tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 5.6%. However, it was the latter (and lower) figure 
that was more emphasised and promoted to Mr H within the suitability report. And whilst I 
accept its possible he may well have elected to take a tax-free lump sum upon retirement, 
this was still many years away for him. Ive also noted that in the Cashflow Planning Questionnaire Mr H said he was unlikely to need a cash lump-sum upon retirement.  So I 
think PrisWM should have given the two critical yields equal emphasis within the report.
PrisWM also calculated the critical yield rates for an earlier retirement, at the age of 55. It did 
this because Mr H had apparently expressed a desire to retire early. However, as Ill explain 
more about later, retirement was still a long way off for Mr H and so I very much doubt 
whether retiring at 55 was anything more than something he just aspired to, rather than 
being part of a real plan. For the age of 55, the critical yields came out at 9.1% (no tax-free 
cash) and 6.5% (with tax free cash) respectively. Again, in my view PrisWM emphasised and 
promoted the lower of these two figures which was somewhat misleading. And I dont think 
there was credible evidence at the time that achieving enough growth outside the DB 
scheme, to make transferring financially viable, was ever going to be achievable. I say this 
with the following in mind. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 4.4% per year for 19 years to retirement (age 65), which is below all of the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. But for a retirement at 55, the discount rate was only 
3.7%; this is substantially below the critical yield figures Ive referred to above.  
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2% although these hadnt 
been updated for some time and we were in a period then of low interest rates and low bond 
yields. So, if anything, projected returns would realistically be lower. 
At the time, PrisWM assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk (ATR) as medium. I therefore dont 
think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend transferring away from 
a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. Growth assumptions close to the 
regulators projections and also to the discount rate were most relevant here in my view. So, 
I think annual growth assumptions of around 3 -to-5% were much more realistic. These 
were substantially below the critical yield figures for the BSPS at the age of 55, on which 
PrisWMs advice was largely predicated. And it was also below the critical yield for a 
retirement at the NRA. 
So I think this showed that achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, 
was unlikely. I also think that PrisWM underplayed the relevance of this by focussing on the 
apparent flexible advantages of transferring.
Ive also noted that using the age of 55, the amount required to replace the existing 
schemes benefits at retirement was £620,991. Again, the importance of this was 
understated in the advice, in my view. To reiterate, these figures are found in PrisWMs own 
analysis based on data the regulator required businesses to refer to at the time. And 
because these figures are far above Mr Hs CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing 
window into the value of the guaranteed pension Mr H could be giving up by transferring 
away to a personal plan, rather than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, PrisWM also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. PrisWM said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF were lower. But these yields related to the reduced 
benefits available with the PPF and PrisWM itself says Mr H wouldnt have wanted to 
transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and 
fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr H, 
would have further reduced the likely growth. I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, PrisWMs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr H would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, PrisWM 
should have recalculated the comparisons for Mr H when the situation with BSPS2 became 
clear. 
Ive also considered some projections PrisWM used to help show that if he transferred out to 
a personal plan, the funds could last Mr H into retirement. I think most of these were based 
on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to say these were 
not comparing like-with-like. What PrisWM was showing Mr H were comparisons with plans 
which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. One such scenario, for example, 
assumed an annual growth rate of 6.2% which I can see no basis for. It also assumed 
drawing a pension from his transferred funds without any annual increases. And even this 
would last Mr H only until he was 75 years old whereas his DB pension lasted for the whole 
if his life with annual increases and a spouses pension if he died.
Of course, according to PrisWM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, PrisWM said Mr H also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
Ive considered with care everything PrisWM has said about the rationale for transferring. 
And I think its fair to summarise the reasons it set out as being around greater flexibility. It 
said Mr H wanted increased income between the ages of 55 and 70 so he could retire early. 
It basically implied the only way a retirement at the age of 55 could be achieved comfortably 
was to transfer to a personal pension plan and then draw down increased levels of income. 
By the time hed reached the upper age in this range, Mr and Mrs H would be drawing their 
state pensions.
I have therefore used all the documents we have from the advice sessions to summarise the 
following themes as supporting PrisWMs recommendation to transfer away:
The increased flexibility to retire early at age 55 and [you] would like a higher income 
in early retirement if possible.
The use of higher tax-free cash is also appealing to you.
You are concerned about the fund entering PPF and stopping transfers. Also, the 
potential cap of 90% on your pension if the scheme entered PPF before you retired. 
You are also unsure about how the benefits will be changed under the [BSPS2].
You require an increased income between 55 and 70, where it will be reduced by the 
amount of state pension. You do not think you will be able to achieve this from the 
scheme.
The increased death benefits to your wife and children. The [personal pension plan] 
can offer better death benefits for your beneficiaries to provide full flexibility on death 
to help with estate planning.I have considered all these issues with care.
Retiring early
Ive taken into account that Mr H approached PrisWM for advice because of the 
uncertainties he faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF. 
However, overall I think the adviser focused heavily on transferring away, rather than starting 
by assessing whether BSPS2 could meet Mr Hs retirement needs and objectives. I think the 
adviser just promoted the more flexible arrangements which Mr H would find with a personal 
pension plan. 
I think its important to specifically focus for a moment here on Mr Hs comparatively young 
age by pension standards. He was only 45 and in good health.  The evidence Ive seen here 
is that Mr H  understandably - had no concrete plans for his retirement. He had only 
referred to the possibility of retiring at 55, which was clearly aspirational rather than a definite 
plan. Ive noted, for instance, that Mr H also referred to retiring at the age of 57 and also 
around or between the ages of 55-to-57. So, in my view this is demonstrative of the 
uncertainties of retirement planning whilst still relatively young.
Not much information about Mrs Hs situation was collected at the time although I think her 
job, salary and whether she had a pension of her own should all have been part of the 
planning process. But we do know Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage and a dependent child and 
a non-dependent child who was a young adult. So, I think that things like financial support, 
housing security and education for the respective children would all have been important 
family considerations over the next few years. I also think Mr H could fairly be described as 
only being mid-career. So, I think its very reasonable to say here that Mr and Mrs Hs 
overall family circumstances still provided a lot of uncertainty about when retiring realistically 
might be possible for Mr H. In short, life still had a lot of permutations to present to them.
In my view, this underscores that any formal retirement plans, viewed from the age of 45, 
were probably still some way off. The adviser should have known this. There was still over 
19 years left to when Mr H would be actually contemplating retiring if using his NRA of 65. 
And even if I did use the age of 55, this was around a decade away and theres simply no 
way he should have been advised to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme just yet. 
Doing so involved an investment risk which I dont think Mr H was comfortable with  and as 
Ive shown above - would likely mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement. 
PrisWM implied that working in a heavy industry such as steel would inevitably mean a 
reduced life expectancy. But this wasnt based on any analysis or data that I can see. Even if 
I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Hs retirement hopes were more fixed than 
the mere aspirations set out by PrisWM - and he really did comprehensively plan to retire 
early - I think PrisWM should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst 
being a member of the BSPS2 for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the 
PPF, would still have been an option for Mr H and PrisWM should have awaited the details 
of the new scheme which were being progressed at the time. Retiring early from a DB 
scheme, such as BSPS2 would simply have meant Mr Hs pension benefits would have 
been somewhat different, due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. 
I think its likely PrisWM also promoted to Mr H that he could access more tax-free cash if he 
transferred to a personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as 
a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more 
tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB 
scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But PrisWM should have been telling Mr H at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially in his mid-fifties in his case, also 
came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other viable options Mr H faced; in 
my view this included opting for the BSPS2. 
Flexibility 
In a similar vein, PrisWM basically said hed be able to select the timing and type of benefits 
taken at retirement and also vary his retirement income. 
However, I cant see that Mr H required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser 
suggested. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr H required changing how his 
retirement benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this was necessary.
I say this because I think its fair to say that if taking a full pension at the NRA, Mr H could 
have received around £25,000 per year. But I think PrisWM promoted the scenario whereby 
Mr H would only receive £9,134 per year or thereabouts. However, this was for a retirement 
some ten years sooner (at the age of 55) and it also assumed him taking a full tax-free lump 
sum of £60,895 even though, as Ive explained above, Mr H had said he might not take a 
tax-free lump-sum upon retiring.
However, even if using these figures, PrisWM still didnt clearly set out why these amounts 
wouldnt meet Mr and Mrs Hs retirement income needs. Hed estimated he might need 
£2,000 per month by retirement to fund a comfortable lifestyle but as this was still so far off, I 
think this could only ever be an educated guess. However, Mr and Mrs H already had 
substantial cash savings. We also know Mr and Mrs H had rental properties and the 
information from the time shows they were confident of soon being mortgage free, allowing 
for the rents to become part of their unreduced income. The evidence suggests this could be 
over £1,000 per month. 
Mr H also had started a new and more flexible DC pension with his job. I accept this DC 
pension was only a few months old, but it was being substantially contributed towards by 
both Mr H and his employer. Mr H would have been able to increase contributions in the 
years ahead if he felt this was warranted and of course, he still had over 19 years left to run 
this DC fund and build it up (if retiring aged 65). If using the age of 57 there were still over 11 
years worth of contributions and growth that could have gone in. And over 9 years if using 
55. So, this secondary pension would certainly have contributed towards Mr H obtaining any 
flexibility he might have needed in the years ahead.
All this means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr H wouldnt want to continue with 
membership of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally 
intended. Mr H already had reliable flexible income streams which could easily meet what 
hed speculated he and Mrs H might need in retirement. 
Indeed, I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr H could have been in an 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing DB scheme of considerable value. 
This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which 
tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Its fair to say that significant 
indexation guarantees were going to exist within BSPS2 and the scheme was still 
underpinned by the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a new DC scheme over 
a still significant period of time  up to 19 years. So, if Mr H ever found he needed flexibility, 
then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former. He also had what appeared to be another reliable income source in the form of soon to be mortgage 
free rental housing.
So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Hs pension entitlements wouldnt have met his 
and Mrs Hs anticipated income requirements, without any need to transfer away from the 
DB scheme. These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current 
members were given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) just after the time 
this advice was being sought. I dont think PrisWM adequately explained these things to Mr 
H as its advice simply focussed on him transferring away and into a personal pension 
arrangement to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt need.
I therefore think Mr Hs circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to potentially retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to. Doing this 
from the position of BSPS2 was possible  there would have been an actuarial reduction 
involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also had a smaller second DC 
pension, and rental income, this supported that strategy in my view. 
Control of funds
Ive seen no credible evidence that Mr H had either the capacity or genuine desire to 
exercise control over his funds. I dont think theres any doubt that Mr H was financially 
aware. But theres no evidence he had any experience of managing pensions or money 
market funds. Theres no evidence his and Mrs Hs savings, although meaningful amounts, 
were kept in anything other than deposit type savings accounts. Nor is there any evidence 
Mr H had wider investment experience to call upon.
With his DB scheme, Mr H was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the new BSPS2. 
Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the original BSPS, 
but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. And I think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing around £417,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr H 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS and BSPS2 contained certain 
benefits payable to a spouse if Mr H died. Mr H was married and so in my view this 
represented a good benefit. Conversely, the adviser told Mr H that hed be able to pass on 
the whole value of a personal pension if he died, potentially tax-free, to anyone he 
nominated. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think PrisWM explored to 
what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for different 
death benefits.
Mr H was only 45 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr H had lived a 
long life there could be much less left in his personal pension plan. Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 55 was at least mentioned  PrisWMs defence of this 
complaint is effectively predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally 
known that a healthy male retiring at 55 would likely have many years ahead in which he 
would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to someone.
I think life insurance was probably discussed in this case and Ive noted that whilst 
employed, Mr H had some death in service protection. But again, the adviser failed to 
present all the relevant options about insurance to Mr H, because they were wholly focussed 
on transferring him away from a DB scheme and into a personal pension plan. I dont think 
this was good advice or advice that was in Mr Hs best interests.
I say this because if Mr H died, the spouses pension with BSPS2 was guaranteed for Mrs 
Hs whole life. Also, at 45 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have still been 
a reasonably affordable product for Mr H if he really did insist on leaving a lump-sum (rather 
than an annual pension) legacy for Mrs H, or indeed anyone else such as a child. It also 
doesnt appear that PrisWM took into account the fact that Mr H could have nominated a 
beneficiary of any funds remaining in his new DC scheme. Therefore, to that end, Mr H 
already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Hs situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
PrisWM said Mr H wanted to break ties with British Steel and it provided this as part of the 
rationale for recommending a transfer away. I can understand that when Mr H met with 
PrisWM he may have been concerned about the overall financial stability of the BSPS 
pension. Lots of his former colleagues at the time were considering transferring out of the 
scheme and he may have worried that his pension could end up in the PPF. If the scheme 
did end up moving to the PPF, I think the adviser should have explained that this was not as 
concerning as Mr H thought. He was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed, the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out to a personal pension plan. I dont 
think that this was properly explained to him. So, I dont think that these concerns should 
have led to PrisWMs recommendation to Mr H to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
PrisWM recommended that Mr H invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H 
and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised not to transfer and so the 
investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. 
I accept that Mr H entered into this advice worried about the future and to a degree, he 
portrayed the BSPS and BSPS2 in a negative way. However, as a regulated adviser being 
paid for this advice, PrisWMs job was to provide information and advice that was in Mr Hs best interests. Instead of assessing whether Mr H might meet his retirement objectives by 
becoming a member of BSPS2, the adviser focussed wholly on transferring away. 
This meant Mr H was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows he was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. 
I also dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. The implication that Mr H was certain to retire early wasnt borne out by the 
evidence. Neither was his apparent needs for flexibility and control of his funds, moving 
forward. These things werent properly defined and like the advice around death benefits, 
they represented nothing more than stock objectives used to justify the transfer-out 
recommendation. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity soon of opting into the BSPS2. I also don't 
think that it was in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF. Doing this wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr H would have retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he really needed to. The annual indexation 
of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think PrisWM should have taken a short time to consider all the changes in 
the BSPS and then duly advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr H would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that PrisWM disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr H, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr H to transfer out, and I think Mr H relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against PrisWMs advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if PrisWM had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think PrisWM should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for PrisWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. PrisWM should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
PrisWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. PrisWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what the business based the inputs 
into the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PrisWM should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts PrisWMs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, PrisWM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
This pension at the time represented nearly all of Mr Hs retirement provision. I believe the 
uncertainty and worrying impact of this unsuitable advice caused him distress and 
inconvenience. I therefore also order PrisWM to pay an additional £250 to Mr H.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct PrisWM 
Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
PrisWM Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on PrisWM Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman