DRN-4207604
The complaint
Ms Bs representative has complained, on her behalf, about the advice she received in 1994 
and 1999 from Colonial Mutual (now Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited) to establish and then 
top up a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) pension policy. 
What happened
Upon the advice she received in 1994 from a representative of Colonial Mutual, Ms B 
established the FSAVC policy. She was at the time at teacher, had been a member of the 
Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) since 1989, and was keen to increase her pension 
provision. She began paying a monthly contribution of £53.
Ms B then topped up her contributions in 1999 by a further £26 pm.
Ms Bs representative complained to Aviva on her behalf in March 2022, saying that she 
should have been advised to capitalise on the in house AVC alternative associated with her 
membership of her employers defined benefit occupation pension scheme.
Aviva accepted that it couldnt confirm whether Ms B had been informed of the in house 
AVC alternative in 1994, and as such it upheld her complaint and agreed to undertake a 
charges only loss assessment.
But it said that it would cap its liability at the point of Ms B topping up her contributions in 
March 1999. At this point, Aviva said, Ms B signed a document which stated that she had 
obtained information from her employer regarding her in house options, was aware that 
charges on an FSAVC policy were likely to be higher than those on the in house option  
and that she was happy to proceed on that basis.
Aviva said that Ms B was therefore aware of her options and that she made an informed 
choice on that basis. As such, it reiterated that it would only be undertaking the loss 
calculation on the initial premium rather than the top up amount.
Dissatisfied with the response, Ms Bs representative referred the matter to this service. One 
of our investigators assessed the complaint and thought it should be upheld, saying the 
following in summary:
He was satisfied that, when arranging the top up premium in 1999, the leaflet drew 
Ms Bs attention to the in house alternative and directed her to her employer for 
further information on this.
But the rules in place in 1999 also required the representative to discuss with Ms B 
the generic differences between the FSAVC policy and the in house alternative. 
Aviva hadnt demonstrated that such a discussion occurred, and so the investigator 
said that he couldnt know what was discussed with Ms B. The declaration within 
the leaflet also didnt set out what had been discussed, he said.
As such, the investigator said that he hadnt seen enough to persuade him that the 
advice in 1999 was complaint or warranted Aviva capping its liability at that point.
Ms Bs representative accepted the investigators conclusions, but Aviva didnt, saying the 
following:
It wished to point out that it hadnt conceded that the FSAVC policy was unsuitable 
for Ms B, but rather it hadnt been able to evidence that Ms B was told about the 
alternative options in 1994.
The literature provided to Ms B in 1999, and signed by her, confirmed her 
understanding of the top up policy. It was clear that the available options were 
pointed out to Ms B and that the charges in the in house AVC could be lower.
As a tied adviser, the representative wasnt able to contact the scheme 
administrators to obtain further details, and at the time this wouldnt have been 
expected of them.
The representative had met the requirements under RU20, the codification of 
procedures which the regulator said businesses should implement when providing 
advice on FSAVC policies.
It acknowledged that it hadnt been able to find a reasons why letter, but it was 
unlikely that this would have contained anything other than what it had confirmed in 
the literature which was provided to Ms B and signed for.
The investigator therefore seemed to be expecting a different level of selling 
practices than those which were required at the time.
The investigator replied, saying that the provision of the leaflet wasnt enough to 
demonstrate that a discussion had taken place, as was required by RU20. 
Aviva continued to disagree, however, querying as to why Ms B would have signed to say 
that she understood the content of the leaflet if it hadnt been discussed. And Ms Bs 
signature on the document was a testament to her full awareness of the alternatives.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to an ombudsman for 
review.
In response to confirmation of this, Ms Bs representative asked that the ombudsman review 
the complete complaint, which included Ms B not being made aware of both in house 
options  the money purchase AVC arrangement and the added years alternative.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 18 May 2023, in which I set out my reasons 
as to why I thought the complaint should be upheld. The following is an extract from that 
decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what both the investigator and Aviva have said about the leaflet, Ms Bs signature 
on it and Avivas view that this would have meant that a discussion had been held and that 
Ms B was therefore aware of the alternatives.I accept that Ms B was likely aware of the alternatives as a result of the leaflet which she 
signed to attest to having received it. Although, as with the investigator, I dont think this 
necessarily evidences that a discussion was held about the alternatives or the differences 
between them. For example, I can see no wording within the leaflet along the lines of as 
discussed or as set out in the suitability report.
But there is in my view a more significant issue here, specifically with regard to the in 
house AVC option (see further below about added years) and one which goes to the heart 
of the rationale as to why such cases might be upheld. And thats Ms Bs awareness of the 
likelihood that the charges under the in house AVC arrangement would be lower.
To clarify, the Personal Investment Authority (the regulator at the time) said that, before 
selling an FSAVC policy, tied advisers should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among 
other things, of the features described in this article)
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-
house option
RU20 mentioned the tax treatment of contributions and benefits, employers being willing to 
match or top-up benefits, and the ability to provide additional life cover within its general 
introduction. 
It also referred to the lower charges under an in house AVC arrangement in general terms, 
saying the followings:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting 
economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the 
employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest 
impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
It therefore expected it to be known by (even tied) advisers that the charges under the in 
house AVC arrangement were likely to be cheaper than the FSAVC policy alternative.
But the leaflet provided to Ms B didnt say this. It said that the charges in an in house 
arrangement can be lower. And I think thats an important difference. I think its more likely 
than not that setting out the likelihood of charges being lower in the in house arrangement 
would have given Ms B pause for thought on what would quite reasonably have been the 
most significant deciding factor about how to proceed  the costs of the arrangements and 
the effect this would have on the final value of her plan. 
And so, irrespective of whether there was a discussion about the points covered within the 
leaflet (albeit for the reasons given above, I agree with the investigator that theres no actual 
indication that one took place), I dont think its been adequately demonstrated that Ms B 
was aware of this important fact.
And on that basis, my view is that the complaint should be upheld, and that the loss 
assessment on the charges only basis should include the top up premiums paid from 1999 
as well.Ive noted the comments from Ms Bs representative, asking that I consider all aspects of the 
complaint, including the added years alternative. I should point out that this aspect wasnt 
included within the complaint form submitted to this service. Rather, the matter which the 
representative wished us to consider was that of the Aviva proposing to cap its liability on the 
charges only loss assessment in 1999. 
But at my request, the investigator has further enquired as to why Ms Bs representative 
considers that added years might have been the appropriate alternative. In response, its 
said that Ms B joined the TPS in 1989, when she was 25. When she met with the financial 
adviser, her annual salary was £16,410, she was single, she was intending to remain in the 
teaching profession (as she has) and her career prospects were good. She was keen to 
maximise her pension provision as much as possible, and due to her age when she started 
teaching and small breaks in service, she wouldnt have achieved her maximum number of 
years service.
It further said that, at the time, Ms B was young and inexperienced, and not in a position to 
take risks with her pension provision. 
And so Ive thought carefully about the prospect of Ms B, had she been made sufficiently 
aware of her rights under her occupational pension scheme options (as was required of tied 
advisers in both 1994 and 1999), choosing to buy added years instead of money purchase 
AVCs.
The cost to Ms B at the time would have been around 0.7% of salary for each added year 
(for the 30 years left to age 60), and Ms B was paying around 3.9% into her FSAVC policy 
from 1994, and then a total of approximately 4.3% from 1999 after the top up. As Ms B had 
accrued five years service by 1994 and was 30 years old. She could have maximised her 
defined benefit pension entitlement at a normal retirement age of 60 through buying five 
added years, which would have amounted to a lower overall contribution than she was 
making to her FSAVC policy.
There are several considerations when thinking about Ms Bs options in 1994. She was 
relatively young, but I think after five years teaching, she would have been reasonably 
confident as to her tenure in the teaching profession and her possible career prospects. 
As Ms B was single, she (or rather any dependants) also wouldnt have benefitted from the 
spouses/dependants benefits which would be produced in the event of her death through 
buying added years. The FSAVC policy, on the other hand, would have paid out the policy 
value upon her death.
Buying added years would also have been a significant commitment, as this needed to be 
sustained for the rest of her teaching career.
I think such downsides would have been of diminished importance to Ms B at age 30. She 
was clearly serious about, and committed towards, enhancing her pension provision, and 
was in a position to do so both in 1994 and 1999. 
But I dont agree with Ms Bs representative that she couldnt afford to take risks with her 
pension provision. She was single, with no dependants and was clearly in a position to make 
quite healthy further contributions to her pension. She had the backup of the defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme membership, was prepared to invest in a managed 
fund (which, given the likely number of years of investment I dont think would have been 
unsuitable or incongruous) and at the time, the returns on money purchase contributions 
would have seemed attractive, with the mid-band yearly growth projection being 9%.But moreover, I do also need to take account of the content of the leaflet provided to Ms B in 
1999 and the quality of the information this conveyed to her. And whilst, for the reasons 
given above, I think that the information was lacking in terms of Ms Bs likely consequent 
awareness of the advantages of the in house AVC route (with particular regard to charges), 
I think that the leaflet fairly set out the aims and features of buying added years. And I think 
Ms B would have been in a sufficiently informed position to then make further enquiries 
about this option if it interested her  which is what was required of tied advisers, as they 
couldnt actively advise on an in house route.
Ms B proceeded to top up her contributions to the FSAVC policy in 1999 rather than 
investigate the added years option. And I therefore think that it might reasonably be inferred 
that Ms B would have made the same decision in 1994, had she been provided with the 
same information.
Overall, therefore, Im satisfied that Ms B more likely than not wouldnt have opted to buy 
added years in 1994, as she similarly didnt in 1999, but Im currently of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld on the basis that Ms B, properly informed, would more likely 
than not have opted to contribute to the in house AVC arrangement in both 1994 and 1999.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Ms B, as closely as possible, into the position she would now be in had she 
been fully informed about the AVC option in 1994 and 1999.
Aviva should therefore undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance for both the original contributions from 1994 and those then made 
from 1999, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view, the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Ms Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Aviva hasnt responded to the provisional decision. But Ms Bs representative has said the 
following in summary:
The cost for Ms B to buy additional years service was unknown without an actuarial 
calculation, but it agreed that she could have bought a significant number of years 
with the contribution she was making to her FSAVC policy. Added years were 
therefore affordable for Ms B.
It had always been its opinion that most public sector workers would have chosen the 
guaranteed option of added years rather than the risk based product.
It agreed that Ms B was likely to remain in the teaching profession and therefore also 
likely to have good career prospects and salary increases.
It wasnt unusual for a female aged 30 to be unmarried with no children, but if she 
had been married with children, it would be arguable that this would have meant time 
out from her career, leaving a larger pension shortfall which would be unaffordable to 
make up.
When she established the FSAVC policy, Ms Bs priority was to maximise her 
pension provision in the safest way, and it seemed very harsh to take the view that, 
just because she had either chosen to remain single or hadnt met the right partner, 
she wouldnt have bought added years. As she had 30 years left to retirement, it was 
probable that she would have met someone.
The argument that, as she was single, the death benefits from the FSAVC policy 
would be more beneficial seemed contradictory to the fact that she had no financial 
dependants. This wouldnt therefore justify Ms B opting for the FSAVC policy over 
buying added years.
Although added years would have been a career-long commitment, Ms B was 
prepared to do this, as has been evidenced by her contribution record since.
When it had said that Ms B couldnt afford to take risks with her pension, this wasnt 
meant in monetary terms, but more in terms of provision. Ms B wished to build up 
as much pension provision as possible. She was young, single, and had no 
experience of pension or investment matters.
If Ms B had been willing to take a risk, it would surely have been reasonable to 
expect her to invest in something other than a managed fund, for example 100% in 
an equity fund. It also wouldnt be unreasonable to expect to see fund switches 
throughout the term of the policy, but there had been none.It had already been agreed that Ms B was able to achieve maximum years service in 
the guaranteed added years environment, but having the main scheme as a backup 
wouldnt justify the taking of risks with the FSAVC policy. Every public sector worker 
had that back up and this rationale would imply that no or very few public sector 
workers would ever have bought added years.
The growth expectations, whilst likely appealing at the time, had been reduced by the 
regulator since. The projections therefore didnt carry much weight in the argument, 
especially when there was no evidence that Ms B had been advised to contact the 
main scheme for an added years quote so that she could make the comparison 
between the two arrangements.
The information contained in the brochure may have set out the different options 
available, but this wasnt enough to fairly say that the adviser had complied with the 
regulatory requirements. The guidance required a discussion, and it appeared that Id 
agreed with this by removing the cap on liability proposed by Aviva.
As there was no evidence of a discussion, it seemed extremely unfair to deem the 
brief mention of added years in the brochure as being sufficient to say that Ms B 
wouldnt have bought added years.
There was no dispute that the advice given to Ms B in 1994 was wrong  and it was 
very unlikely that, had the correct advice been given, she would have changed her 
view later on. It was also debateable as to whether the further appointment for the 
top up in 1999 would have taken place had suitable advice been given in 1994, as 
Ms B wouldnt have needed to seek further advice. It therefore brought into question 
the importance of the brochure in this case  and the representative thought that this 
was none, given my finding that the sale in 1999 was non-compliant.
As I had deemed the sale of the top up in 1999 to be non-compliant due to the lack of 
evidence surrounding a discussion, it therefore followed that there was no evidence 
of a discussion around added years. It seemed unfair to have one rule for the money 
purchase arrangement and one for the added years arrangement. The regulator 
didnt differentiate between the two.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the points made by Ms Bs representative, and would comment as follows.
Firstly with regard to its opinion that most public sector workers would have chosen the 
guaranteed added years option rather than the risk based FSAVC policy or in house AVC 
option, this service considers individual complaints - and so the individual circumstances 
which were relevant at the time of the disputed advice, rather than opinion-based 
assumptions about a wider group of individuals. And it is Ms Bs particular circumstances 
and objectives which have been considered here.
Addressing the point about the hypothetical situation of Ms B being married with children and 
the larger gap which this would leave if shed taken time out from her career to raise 
children, I think Ms B would more likely than not have identified the shortfall in her pension 
provision and simply made it up in what she considered to be the best possible way. Simply 
because Ms B may have had more years missing wouldnt make it more or less likely, in my 
view, that she would have chosen to buy added years. And I cant see why it reasonably would. An individual doesnt need to make up all of the missing service  they can chose to 
buy as many added years as they wish up to the scheme maximum.
As to the assertion that Ive judged Ms B harshly by referring to her single status as a reason 
for her choosing a money purchase arrangement over buying added years, this simply refers 
to her capacity, at the time, to take financial risks and her likely diminished concern about 
the lack of spouses benefits which would be produced by the added years.
And I think Ms Bs representative may have misunderstood the point I was making about the 
death benefits which would be produced by the FSAVC policy. These would be paid as a 
lump sum to nominated beneficiaries (at the discretion of the trustees) from a money 
purchase arrangement, for example to other family members. Whereas the death benefits 
from the main scheme would be payable only to a spouse or financially dependent children. 
And so her single status at that time is of some relevance.
I do agree that Ms B would likely have been committed to her pension saving, as may have 
been demonstrated since. And I also agree that Ms B would likely have wished to build up as 
much as possible. But I dont think that this either would have been, or Ms B would have 
viewed it as being, incompatible with a fairly mainstream pension product such as an AVC 
arrangement, especially given the growth projections in place at the time. 
And Im not sure I follow the rationale relating to the representatives view that, if Ms B had 
been willing to take a risk with a part of her pension provision, she would have invested in 
something like a 100% equity fund. I think a managed fund, with the associated 
diversification of assets, would have offered a sufficiently risk/reward based environment. 
And for individuals lacking investment experience, as has been asserted as being the case 
for Ms B, this type of default fund can be the most appealing. I dont think a willingness to 
take some financial risk translates directly across to an individual being highly speculative, 
as seems to be the suggestion here.
Ms Bs representative has further said that the backup of the main scheme guaranteed 
benefits wouldnt justify Ms B taking a risk with her additional provision. But Ms B may well 
have thought so, and again, although I note the generalisation about this type of rationale 
meaning that no or very few public sector workers would ever buy added years, Ive 
considered Ms Bs individual circumstances and whether I think she in particular is more 
likely than not to have opted for added years. For other individuals, the situation will be 
different.
Ive then noted the commentary about the growth projection rates at the time, and that these 
were reduced over subsequent years. But Im considering the position and information 
available at the time, not over subsequent years and whether by a later point such growth 
projections might have been deemed to have been optimistic. And whilst I dont think that Ms 
B necessarily needed to know what she could have achieved in terms of the monetary 
amount from buying added years to be able to appreciate the monetary value of what she 
could receive from an AVC policy, I in any case remain of the view that she would 
reasonably have been aware of the added years route/option from the information contained 
in the leaflet.
I note that Ms Bs representative takes a different view, and that it has said that I had agreed 
that a discussion was required, as set out in the regulatory requirements, and that it was the 
basis of my provisional decision that this hadnt happened  and so the cap on liability 
should be removed.
But this wasnt the basis of my provisional findings. I in fact said that it couldnt be 
demonstrated either way as to whether a discussion had been held. But conscious of the requirement that information relating to Ms Bs options be fairly brought to her attention, I 
considered the content of the leaflet to determine, on a fair and reasonable basis, whether 
Ms B would more likely than not have been aware of the option of buying added years.
And my conclusion, on the basis of the leaflet which she signed to attest to having read it, 
was that Ms B was more likely than not to have been aware of the option of added years. 
And my rationale for clearly distinguishing between the information provided about the added 
years option and that for joining the in house AVC scheme was that the detail relating to the 
latter didnt meet the bar of what was expected  in that I didnt think Aviva had been clear 
enough in setting out that the AVC charges were likely to be lower than for the FSAVC 
policy.
I did, however, conclude that the information relating to the added years option was clear 
enough. And I agree that Ms B would have demonstrated a consistency of behaviour 
between 1994 and 1999. And so, given that I think she would reasonably have been 
sufficiently aware of the option of added years in 1999, and nevertheless chose the money 
purchase option, I think its more likely than not that she would have made the same 
decision in 1994 if shed been presented with the same information.
Ive further noted the representatives comment about the leaflet being of no importance 
given that, had suitable advice been given in 1994, Ms B wouldnt have needed to meet with 
the adviser again in 1999. But we base our decisions on the facts of the case. And the fact is 
that, in 1999, Ms B was provided with the leaflet which set out the option to investigate 
buying added years, but instead chose the money purchase route.
Overall, therefore, my view remains that Ms B wasnt in a well enough informed position in 
1999 to decide whether to choose between the in house AVC scheme and the FSAVC 
policy, and so the liability shouldnt be capped for that redress calculation in 1999. But I do 
maintain that Ms B was sufficiently well informed to be able to decide whether to investigate 
the added years option. And as she didnt in 1999, I think its more likely than not that she 
would have made the same decision, with the same information, in 1994.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Ms B, as closely as possible, into the position she would now be in had she 
been fully informed about the AVC option in 1994 and 1999.
Aviva should therefore undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance for both the original contributions from 1994 and those then made 
from 1999, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view, the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Ms Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
to undertake the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman