DRN-3211701
The complaint
Ms M complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as RSA (RSA) delayed her 
claim and caused her stress and inconvenience as a vulnerable customer when she claimed 
on her property insurance policy following a flood. Shes explained RSA didnt arrange 
suitable accommodation for her; declined to cover most of the works that were needed; 
caused damage to her central heating system; offered an inadequate settlement and; 
caused her stress which has impacted her health and left her needing additional support.
Our investigator said we couldnt look at complaint points dealt with in RSAs final response 
letter in January 2020 because they hadnt been brought to our service in time. As neither 
party disagreed, this provisional decision is about the above points only.
As the policy is in Ms Ms name, Ill refer to her only. References to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
A lot has happened on this complaint over a number of years so I wont go into every detail. 
Instead Ill focus on whats relevant to the complaint points I am able to look into.
Ms M has a property insurance policy covering her building and contents which started on 
30 September 2019. On 7 November 2019, Ms Ms house was sadly flooded so she made a 
claim on 8 November 2019.
Ms M explained to RSA she has a serious medical condition and disability so asked for it to 
prioritise her claim. RSA accepted the claim the same day. Its given us internal notes and 
call recordings with Ms M during which she explained shed found a rental property she 
could move to from 1 December 2019 but in the meantime shed reserved a hotel to stay in. 
RSA agreed to cover the cost of this and confirmed the booking directly with the hotel.
Shortly afterwards Ms M got in touch with RSA. She explained shed suffered a fall in her 
hotel bathroom and hit her head. She said during the call, the hotel wasnt suitable for 
someone with a disability and the staff had given her false information when she reserved 
the room. RSA says it arranged a different hotel with disabled facilities for Ms M but she 
declined this as shed already arranged something else. 
Ms M thinks RSA is responsible for her injury. She says her fall was caused by the stress it 
had put her under. And she hit her head as the room was unsuitable for her needs.
On 22 November 2019, during a visit to the property, Ms M explained she wanted to use her 
own contractors to complete the reinstatement works. On 2 December 2019, RSA appointed 
a loss adjuster due to the likely value of the claim and they attended Ms Ms property to carry 
out a survey for the strip out work.
As Ms M didnt agree with the schedule for the strip out works, she appointed her own 
surveyor. Over the course of the claim, the contractors changed around three times as Ms M 
was unhappy with their service or standard of work. On 7 January 2020, Ms M provided a 
new schedule and following some negotiation, it was agreed by both parties.
In March 2020, RSA started the strip out works and the drying out equipment was installed. 
Whilst RSA said it had struggled to contact Ms M to start the process  and the start date 
was put off for her to review the schedule  it also accepted it could have installed the 
equipment sooner. So in its final response letter, it offered Ms M £400 to compensate her. 
During the strip out process, Ms M explained RSA damaged her central heating system. 
RSA agreed to cover the cost of repairs but it added it to the claim as it thought it was part of 
the normal damage from reinstatement works. Ms M doesnt agree this was fair.
In the meantime, Ms M let RSA know the stress it had put her under led to her developing a 
condition which affected her mobility and shed now need additional support and care. RSA 
has said Ms M hasnt given any evidence to show the way it handled the claim caused this.
Ms M raised a complaint in February 2020. RSA has said she initially twice sent her 
complaint to the wrong business with a similar sounding name. The complaint was 
forwarded onto RSA and it sent Ms M a letter in May 2020 explaining it wouldnt be able to 
issue a final response letter and referring her to our service.
In May 2020 and June 2020, RSA offered cash settlements for Ms Ms claims. There was 
some negotiation but the offers were accepted in June 2020.
Unhappy with the service provided and how the claim was settled, Ms M asked us to look 
into things. The investigator initially upheld the complaint and said RSA should pay £300 as 
compensation for the unsuitable accommodation Ms M initially stayed in. Neither party 
agreed with our investigators opinion and RSA highlighted it hadnt arranged the hotel. As 
the complaint wasnt resolved at that stage, it was passed to me to reach a decision on.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2021. I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld in summary because I thought:
RSA recorded Ms Ms medical details when she made her claim and treat it as a priority.
The length of time for the claim to be settled in full wouldve felt considerable. But I can 
only hold RSA responsible for unreasonable delays over and above whats usual.
Much of the delays Ms M described werent significant and were down to reasonable 
negotiations between the two parties. 
There was a delay in drying out the property. But I thought RSA had already done 
enough to make up for this. And, this formed part of the complaint that I cant look at.
It was understandable Ms M felt concerned about her property and belongings  and 
wanted to make sure things were done correctly. But I thought this sometimes threw 
things off course and had some impact on delaying things.
There wasnt enough evidence to say RSA was responsible for Ms Ms change in health 
as the incident and her change in health most likely increased her stress levels. And 
although the claim wasnt progressed as quickly as she would have liked, I didnt think 
the delay I could look at was unreasonable.
From the evidence (call recordings and notes), it seemed RSA offered to find the 
alternative accommodation but she declined it. And it was willing to work with her to find 
the right accommodation for her and it helped when she needed to move.It was understandable Ms M was very upset the hotel she arranged wasnt suitable for 
her needs when she was told it would be. But as shed sourced and screened it herself, I 
didnt agree RSA was responsible for this.
It was unfair for RSA to add the cost of repairing Ms Ms central heating system to the 
settlement amount as there was no evidence the damage to it was unavoidable. But I 
didnt think she was put in a worse position by this as she wasnt left out of pocket and, it 
didnt seem this work took up the budget for other works needed. 
Ms M hadnt given us anything to show more work was needed than RSA identified. So I 
didnt think it would be fair to direct it to pay more. But I thought its offer to review things 
if she does provide evidence showing more work was needed was fair.
RSA had received Ms Ms complaint in March 2020. And it had responded to her in line 
with the dispute resolution (DISP) rules  specifically DISP 1.6.2  set out in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. RSA 
agreed with my decision. Ms M didnt reply by the deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, having looked at the response I have received following my provisional decision and 
reconsidered the case as a whole, I see no reason to change my conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. And I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 January 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman