DRN-4056845
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that when they moved house, and ported their mortgage, with Bank 
of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, they were charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). 
They asked for this back, but Halifax kept part of the ERC to cover the mortgage reduction.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought a new home, and ported their existing mortgage with Halifax. They 
said when they moved, they noticed the amount they got from Halifax was wrong. Mr and 
Mrs P had been charged an ERC, although they hadnt redeemed all their lending. 
Mr and Mrs P complained, and they said they were told they would get this money back. 
They said Halifax delayed making payment, so they didnt get over £10,000 refunded until 
almost a month after their sale. And they said it also took about a month for Halifax to tell 
them they wouldnt be getting all of their money back after all. 
Mr and Mrs P had reduced their mortgage when they sold their old house, and Halifax 
charged an ERC of over £1,000 on the amount of the mortgage theyd paid off.
Mr and Mrs P say thats wrong. They say they were never told that they couldnt use their 
10% overpayment facility (which doesnt incur an ERC) at the same time as moving house. 
Mr and Mrs P said the ERC theyd paid was a penalty, and they shouldnt have been 
charged this.
Halifax said it was sorry that it had got some things wrong. It shouldnt have delayed the 
refund they were due on their ERC, after Mr and Mrs P moved house, and it shouldnt have 
responded to their complaint by saying they would get a full refund, when only a partial 
refund was due. Halifax said it would pay £100 in compensation, and also pay 8% interest 
(minus tax) on the ERC refund that was due, while it wasnt paid. 
But Halifax said it wasnt a mistake to say that Mr and Mrs H were only due a partial refund 
of the ERC. Halifax said Mr and Mrs P had told it their broker had reassured them they 
would get all their money back, and if theyd known they wouldnt before they moved, they 
might have made different choices. But Halifax said that isnt how the ERC works when 
someone moves home and pays off part of their mortgage with the sale of the first property. 
It said it should only have given a partial refund, and it said this information was available to 
Mr and Mrs P and their broker before they moved. So Halifax wouldnt pay back the extra 
£1,000 it had withheld. 
Mr and Mrs P said theyd spoken to Halifax before they spoke to a broker, and they were told 
they could port their mortgage and reduce their borrowing by 10%. They said their broker 
also had the same assumption, as this had been done with other lenders. And the result 
would be the same, whether the lending was reduced at the time of the property sale and 
new purchase, or before this. 
Mr and Mrs P also said that Halifax had given them the wrong information until only a few 
days before the money came back. Mr and Mrs P still wanted the full ERC returned to them. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr and Mrs P 
didnt fit the requirements for an ERC to be fully waived, because they werent just porting 
their mortgage, they were also reducing their borrowing at the same time. Our investigator 
suggested Mr and Mrs P, or their broker, could have been aware of this before the move. So 
she didnt think Halifax had to pay that money back.
Our investigator did accept that Mr and Mrs P had been given poor service, because there 
were avoidable delays in paying the refund that was due, and a lack of clarity around the 
amount of the ERC they would be paid. But our investigator thought that the amount Halifax 
had paid in compensation and interest was in line with what our service would award for a 
mistake like this. So she didnt think Halifax had to do any more. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They said it made no sense to them to say they would need to 
borrow more, in order to reduce their mortgage by 10% afterwards. They said they were 
entitled to reduce their mortgage by 10% without being penalised, and that should be 
regardless of them moving. They also didnt agree that the compensation Halifax paid for its 
poor service was acceptable. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr and Mrs P said that they asked Halifax before they moved, and it said they could port 
their mortgage, and reduce their lending by 10%. And thats right, they were able to do that. 
But Halifax says an ERC is payable, if they do that.
Halifax has shown us its website providing information for brokers, which says this  
If the amount to be ported to a new loan is lower than the amount currently on the 
product the full ERC will need to be paid upon redemption, but a partial refund of the 
ERC will be arranged following redemption on a pro rata basis i.e. if £100,000 of 
£200,000 on the existing product is being ported then 50% of the ERC paid would be 
refunded.
And its shown us the booklet it gave with Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage. That says this  
Taking your product rate to a new mortgage.
It's sometimes possible to take your product rate and early repayment charge with 
you on a new mortgage to a different property.
 Your Mortgage Illustration and offer letter will say if you can do this.
 If you are borrowing less and an early repayment charge still applies to you, then 
you will have to pay this charge on the difference.
For those reasons, I do think that a partial ERC was properly applied in this case. 
Mr and Mrs P have told us they werent expecting to pay this. I dont know what Mr and Mrs 
Ps broker said to them, and whether they were misinformed by the broker. That business 
isnt party to this complaint. But I have seen the information that Halifax made available, both 
to brokers it works with and to Mr and Mrs P themselves. And Im satisfied that Halifax has 
made its policy clear.
Mr and Mrs P say that cant be right, because they can overpay 10% of their outstanding 
loan without incurring an ERC. But Halifax has pointed to this part of their mortgage 
information booklet  
If you repay the loan in full within six months of making a regular or lump-sum 
overpayment, youll need to pay the full early repayment charge, including the portion 
we previously did not charge.
Thats intended to make sure that customers dont pay off 10% of their mortgage, then 
immediately redeem the rest, to cut down on the ERC payable. 
Mr and Mrs P said they could always have borrowed more, and repaid 10% of their 
borrowing later. I dont know if this would have been possible in their case. I dont have 
information about their new property and their personal circumstances, so I cant tell whether 
those would have supported a larger amount of lending. I also dont know what 
conversations they had with their broker about this. But we know that Mr and Mrs P didnt 
borrow more to repay some later. And Mr and Mrs P havent suggested Halifax was asked 
about this, so I dont think it was Halifaxs responsibility to advise them about whether to 
borrow more. 
Like our investigator, I do think that Halifax should have repaid the bulk of Mr and Mrs Ps 
ERC rather faster than it did, and with fewer phone calls chasing payment. I also think it 
would have helped if Halifax had clarified, when Mr and Mrs P first complained, that only a 
partial refund was due. But again, like our investigator, I think that what Halifax has already 
paid to say sorry for this, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I know that Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed, but I dont think Halifax has to do more in this 
case than it has done already. And that means this complaint wont be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman