DRN-2583869
The complaint
Mr W complains that the increasing cost of the life cover within his personal pension plan
with Zurich Assurance Limited (Zurich) means that less of his overall contribution went
towards his retirement provision. He says this means hell receive a lower pension than he
anticipated. Mr W says he wasnt kept updated about the increased cost of the life cover until 
June 2019 and would have reduced the level of life cover and premiums previously if hed 
been made aware.
What happened
In June 1988 Mr W took out a personal pension plan with Zurich. Within the monthly
contributions of £36.35 he agreed a proportion would be used to provide some life cover in
the event of his death. The contributions, including the life cover element, were index linked.
Zurich has explained how in this case Mr W would be contributing more than was initially
required to provide life cover of £25,000  so the excess premium would be held in a pot to
be used later when the premiums would increase. The premium for the initial £25,000 was
£1.15.
The plan was set up with a selected retirement age of 60, but Mr W decided to defer taking
his benefits. In a telephone conversation about the value of his plan in June 2019 Mr W
became aware of the cost of providing the life cover at that time. In a subsequent letter dated
7 June 2019 Zurich confirmed that Mr Ws total monthly premium was £143.13  of which
£53.01 was used to provide life cover of £85,039. The letter explained that the cost of
providing the cover increased with age and could impact on the overall value of the fund.
Mr W complained that the lack of clarification hed received over the years about the way the
life cover premium had increased. He said hed have stopped the cover if hed known its true
cost and would now receive a lower pension as a result. Zurich didnt uphold his complaint. It
explained that it had calculated the life cover premiums based on the risk of him dying over
the whole term of the plan. So, Mr W had paid an average cost over the years meaning he
paid more than required in the earlier years to ensure a reserve fund could be used to pay
the more expensive premiums in later years.
However, Zurich did accept that it hadnt always made Mr W aware of the difference
between these notional and actual costs which meant it hadnt clearly stated the true cost
of the life cover. It paid Mr W £100 for any trouble and upset its unclear communication had
caused.
Mr W subsequently transferred his plan to another provider in August 2019. And he wasnt
happy with Zurichs response as he believed hed overpaid his life cover premiums by
around £1,672 against the notional amounts. So, he brought his complaint to us where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter and thought this was a complaint we shouldnt 
uphold. He said Zurichs terms and conditions (T&Cs) explained how the pension plan 
worked and that Mr W knew the contributions were indexed. 
So, he thought the premiums had been applied in line with the T&Cs. He agreed that Zurich 
could have been clearer in explaining the breakdown of the costs  although he noted that it 
wasnt required to do so, and he thought the £100 paid for any inconvenience caused by the 
unclear communication was fair and reasonable.
Mr W didnt agree. He said it had been difficult to understand the charging structure of the
plan and hed not been made aware of the life cover premium during the term of the plan. He
said that even when he spoke with Zurich in 2017 and 2018, hed been told the life cover
monthly premium was around £20 to £28, so it was unfair that the premium had risen to £53
by 2019. He said he could have got the cover much cheaper elsewhere and could have
stopped the life cover within his pension which would have increased his retirement
provision.
The investigator reiterated his position that he thought the policy was clear and that he didnt
think Zurich needed to do anything further. But Mr W didnt think the costs of the life cover
were fair even when index linking the premiums, and he asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me for a review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that I couldnt uphold Mr Ws complaint that hed suffered a 
financial loss, but I did think Zurich should pay additional compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions. In summary I said:
It was understandable why Mr W might conclude his life cover premiums were unfair 
and that, if hed been made aware of the actual premium, he would have stopped his 
contributions.
But Zurich had explained that the cost of the cover was averaged out over the term 
of plan. This meant the higher premiums that would be due as Mr W got older were 
subsidised by the earlier (cheaper premium) years.
But I didnt think the terms and conditions from when the plan was taken out were 
clear. I wasnt persuaded that Mr W would have been able to conclude the premiums 
were averaged out based on what Id seen. 
However, I was aware that this was a fairly commonly used method to calculate 
premiums  and the T&Cs did at least suggest some form of mortality calculation 
would be carried out.
I was satisfied that Zurich had followed a process to calculate the life cover premiums 
and that it wasnt unreasonable. I said we wouldnt normally interfere with such 
commercial decisions of a business  but I didnt think Mr W would necessarily have 
understood the process involved. 
The amount Mr W said hed overpaid in premiums remained in the fund, so 
Mr W hadnt suffered any loss. That money  held in a reserve pot  was included in 
the transfer value that was subsequently applied to his plan. 
I didnt think that Zurich had made things any clearer in its telephone conversations 
with Mr W in 2017 and 2018. So I thought Zurich ought to pay Mr W an additional 
£200  on top of the £100 it had already offered  for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the lack of clarity in all its explanations of the way the life cover premiums 
were averaged out throughout the plan. 
But as Mr W said he would simply have paid the contributions into the pension fund 
instead, if hed stopped the life cover premiums on learning of their true costs  this 
would have put him in the same situation as now  with the contributions held in the 
pension plan itself. 
Responses to my provisional decisionMr W didnt accept my provisional decision. He said hed found a very similar complaint on 
our website where Zurich had made an offer to refund a consumers life cover premiums. He 
said the offer was substantially more than the £100 it had offered him, and he thought he 
should have been offered a similar level of compensation. 
We sent a copy of that decision to Zurich for its comments. 
Zurich accepted my provisional decision. It said it had noted Mr Ws reference to another 
complaint in his submission  which he said had similarities to his own but had a different 
outcome. But Zurich said it dealt with all complaints on their own merits and in Mr Ws case 
believed an award for acknowledging thats its communications should have clearer was 
appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Mr W hasnt 
made any further submissions about the facts or principles of his complaint. So I dont 
propose to change my view that Zurich did apply the life cover premiums fairly throughout 
the term of Mr Ws pension plan, but it didnt clearly explain the way it averaged out the 
premiums so that the cost in the early years subsidised the costs in the later years. I didnt 
think Zurich made this sufficiently clear in any of its communications and thought it should 
compensate Mr W  beyond what it had already offered  for this lack of clarity.
But I didnt think Mr W had suffered any financial loss here  because even if I said he would 
have stopped making the contributions if hed been made aware that the premiums had risen 
substantially, hed already told us that he would have invested those premiums into his 
pension. In this case his premiums had remained in a reserve pot within his pension fund, so 
he had benefitted from those premiums remaining invested in his pension in any case.
However, Mr W did ask me to look at what he believed was a similar complaint where an 
ombudsmans decision had endorsed an offer that Zurich made to the consumer for a much 
greater amount.
I should first explain that ombudsmen set out their decisions and explain them. The 
decisions do not act as binding precedents on other ombudsmen when deciding later 
complaints. And each complaint is looked at taking into account its particular
circumstances. Two cases that can appear similar may get different answers due to the
particular nature of that complaint which the ombudsman would need to consider in
each case.
However, I think it is important that I highlight as a matter of fact the distinctions between the 
findings I have made and those which have been brought to my attention by Mr W - but only 
to the extent it demonstrates that I have carefully considered the circumstances of the 
complaint before me. The ombudsman in the other case did also conclude that Zurich was 
able to use the reserve funds from a pension plan to cover the life cover costs. And she said 
that Zurich hadnt been sufficiently clear in explaining how the life cover contributions were to 
be deducted after the selected retirement age. But she didnt reach a decision against the 
business  except to say the offer Zurich had already made was fair. 
I cant comment on why Zurich offered to refund the life cover contributions made after the 
other consumers selected retirement age, thats for Zurich to decide based on each individual complaint. But equally I dont believe there has been any inconsistency between 
the decision I came to and the one the other ombudsman reached. 
In both cases it was agreed that Zurichs communication should have been clearer, and Ive 
already said how I think Zurich should put that right. Its not for me to tell Zurich what level of 
compensation is appropriate when its trying to resolve complaints made against itself.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Zurich Assurance Limited. 
Zurich should pay Mr W an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
unclear information. Zurich has already offered Mr W £100 which it should also pay if it 
hasnt done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman