DRN-4085532
The complaint
Mr H complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) caused 
delays when transferring his personal pension from his ceding scheme (A). He believes he 
has suffered financial loss and distress and inconvenience in trying to sort this matter out, for 
which he wants to be compensated.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in the view issued by our investigator. The 
timeline of events is not in dispute by either party and so I repeat it here for clarity
Mr H held a personal pension with A and wanted to transfer it to Royal London.
On 27 October 2022, Mr H e-signed a letter of authority (LOA) so Royal London could obtain 
plan information from A.
On 14 November 2022, Royal London sent the LOA to A.
On 6 December 2022, A responded and stated, Unfortunately, we are currently unable to 
accept electronic signatures through DocuSign for Letters of Authority.
Then, on 7 December 2022, Royal London sent Mr H a transfer in form which he completed, 
signed and returned the same day. He also sent a new LOA with a wet signature. He also 
raised a complaint because he was unhappy with the time taken to transfer his pension to 
Royal London. As well, he felt the app was misleading because it did not mention that e-
signatures might be rejected and felt the transfer process was not well explained.
On 8 December 2022, Royal London sent A an Origo transfer request and on 16 December 
2022, the funds were received into Royal London from A.
On 22 December 2022, Royal London issued its final response. It upheld Mr Hs complaint. It 
apologised for the poor customer service and the delays it accepted it caused but ultimately 
still felt the transfer had been completed within timely manner. It offered Mr H £100 as a 
good will gesture.
Mr H was disappointed in Royal Londons response. He felt a financial loss had occurred 
and Royal London should put him back in the position he would have been in had the 
transfer gone ahead at the date he felt the transfer should have been completed.
On 9 January 2023, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr H. She agreed that the transfer could have gone 
ahead at an early date. In her view she thought Royal London should have issued the 
transfer application form earlier and hadnt reasonably explained why it hadnt done so. She 
asked Royal London to calculate if a loss had occurred using the date she felt th transfer 
could have been completed.
Mr H agreed with the investigators view, but he asked for the transfer date to be a day earlier 
than that proposed by the investigator.
Royal London disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
As both parties had disagreements about the investigators view, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have independently reached the same outcome as the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is no dispute here that Royal London caused some unreasonable delays and 
misleading information was provided. The disagreement lies in the level of those delays and 
the potential financial loss. So, I must determine if Royal London has acted fairly when it 
says that although there were delays the transfer was still carried out in a timely manner and 
by offering him £100 as a good will gesture for the distress caused.
I have to say Im not persuaded that Royal London has acted fairly. Whilst there were 
elements of the timeline that fell outside of Royal Londons control, Im in agreement with the 
investigator that this transfer could have occurred on 28 October 2022, rather than 16 
December 2022 when it was completed.
Royal London requires a LOA to be signed for every pension transfer in. That is not 
unreasonable, and so I agree it acted fairly in asking Mr H to complete this on 27 October 
2022. But in its email dated 23 March 2023, Royal London says:
If the Transfer In Form allows us to identify that we can accept the plan we will go ahead and 
request the transfer, however if it had not, we would use the signed LOA to request 
additional information.
In this case, Royal London did not need any additional information and did not need to use 
the LOA, so if it had sent the transfer in application form at the same time as it sent the LOA 
to Mr H, it could have completed the transfer request the following day i.e., 28 October 2022.
Royal London hasnt given an explanation why the transfer in form wasnt sent at the same 
time. I can see that when it did send the form, Mr H sent it back immediately and so Im 
persuaded the same would have applied in October. I think this did cause a delay because 
ultimately the transfer proceeded solely based on the transfer in application form and the 
LOA was not used. So, it follows that Royal London should carry out a calculation to see if it 
had carried out the transfer at the earlier date whether Mr H would have incurred a loss.I appreciate Mr H would prefer the calculation date to be the 27 October 2022, but I must 
follow the same timeline of events to be fair to both parties. Royal London made the Origo 
request the following day (8 December) after it received the transfer in application form (7 
December) and so applying that timeline, which I believe to be fair and reasonable means 
Royal London would have been in a position to make the Origo request on 28 October 2022.
It took A, six working days to send the funds to Royal London from the date of the Origo 
request. For that reason, I agree that Royal London would have received Mr Hs funds on 7 
November 2022 as this is six working days from 28 October 2022.
Putting things right
That means Royal London will need to work out if Mr H has suffered any financial loss by 
comparing what his fund is currently worth with what it wouldve been worth had Royal 
London received the transfer value on 7 November 
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr
Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
As explained above, it is assumed that Mr H will be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. If 
Mr H disputes this, then he would need to clarify this immediately upon receipt of my findings 
and provide evidence of this to Royal London if they require it.
With regard to compensation for the inconvenience caused by the one-month delay I agree 
that £200 is more in keeping with what this service would think fair and reasonable int eh 
circumstances of this complaint and would better reflect the distress caused to Mr H here.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to carry out the redress as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman