DRN-4000582
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has 
dealt with their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H booked a trip abroad, to depart in July 2022. In May 2022, they took out an 
annual multi trip travel insurance policy, which was insured through Admiral.
Unfortunately, Mrs H then became unwell which meant she wasnt able to travel. They 
cancelled their trip and made a claim to Admiral for the costs.
Admiral declined their claim. It said that when Mrs H took out the policy, she didnt declare 
that she was on a waiting list for treatment or investigation for a condition. It said that, if it 
had been made aware of this, it wouldnt have offered her the policy cover. It referred to 
policy exclusions which state no cover will be provided for any claim relating to a pre-existing 
medical condition or any claim related to the policyholder waiting for treatment or tests for 
any medical condition.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs H made a complaint to Admiral and brought the matter to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and said that it wasnt fair for Admiral to 
decline the claim using that exclusion as there was no evidence that the condition which 
caused Mrs H to cancel her trip was related to the condition for which she was waiting for 
treatment. But he found that Mrs H had made a misrepresentation regarding her medical 
condition at the point of purchase. He said that this was a careless misrepresentation and 
Admiral could therefore avoid the policy. But that Admiral should refund the premium.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our investigators opinion. They said that the condition for 
which Mrs H was waiting treatment for would not have prevented her from travelling and so 
their claim should be paid. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Was the claim correctly declined?
Admiral has referred to the following policy exclusion when declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim 
for their cancelled holiday:
Youre not covered for:
Any claim related to a pre-existing medical condition, new medical condition, or 
any health changes that you have not declared to us, or we have not agreed to 
cover, or where you have not paid any additional premium requested to cover it
Any claim related to you waiting for treatment or tests for any medical condition or 
symptoms that have not yet been diagnosed.
Both of the points detailed above refer to the claim being related to the pre-existing medical 
condition or where the claim relates to the policy holder waiting for treatment or tests. 
However, the medical condition which caused Mrs H to cancel her trip appears to be 
unrelated to the condition for which she was waiting on treatment for. So, I dont think these 
exclusions apply to the claim made by Mr and Mrs H. And therefore, Im not satisfied it was 
reasonable for Admiral to reject the claim on this basis.
Misrepresentation
Although I dont think the claim has been declined for the right reasons, I do need to 
consider if there are any other reasons which mean that the claim shouldnt be paid. Admiral 
has stated that Mrs H failed to declare that she was waiting for treatment for a medical 
condition when she took out the policy. It has said that, if she had declared this, it wouldnt 
have offered her any insurance cover.
When a consumer takes out insurance, theyll typically be asked questions about themselves 
(and anyone else who is to be insured under the policy) as well as the risks they want to 
insure. The insurer then uses that information to weigh up whether it wishes to cover those 
risks and how much it will charge for doing so. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty 
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering an 
insurance contract. They must provide the insurer with accurate information to allow it to 
assess the risk. If they dont, there are some circumstances in which an insurer may be able 
to avoid the insurance contact  but thats only if theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. 
In the absence of this, and where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation then the insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided 
with the wrong information. 
Under CIDRA, I must first decide whether Mrs H took reasonable care. That can involve 
several considerations including whether the questions she was asked at the time of taking 
out the policy were sufficiently clear.
Mr and Mrs H took out the policy with Admiral which they accessed through an online 
comparison website. Admiral has provided evidence of the questions that were asked during 
this process. In particular it has referred to the following question:
Are you or anyone in your party currently on a waiting list for treatment or 
investigation?
Im satisfied that this is a clear question.
Admiral has said that Mr and Mrs H answered no to this question on the website. When the 
claim was made, the medical certificate completed by Mrs Hs GP stated that, at the time of 
booking the trip and paying the balance, Mrs H was waiting for outpatient treatment for a 
condition and had been referred to a consultant or specialist. But this doesnt confirm that 
Mrs H was on a waiting list at the time of taking out the policy. Our investigator, however, 
has subsequently been able to confirm with Mrs H that this was in fact the case. This means 
that Mr and Mrs H should have answered yes to this question. Admiral has provided evidence to show that, had Mr and Mrs H answered this question 
correctly, it wouldnt have offered insurance cover to them. So, Im satisfied this was a 
qualifying misrepresentation and that Admiral has reasonably declined the claim on the basis 
that the policy wouldnt have been in place had Mr and Mrs H answered the medical 
question with reasonable care.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs H have said that the condition for which Mrs H was awaiting treatment 
for wasnt going to stop them travelling and so they dont understand why this means this 
claim, for a cancelled trip due to a different condition, cannot be met. I appreciate their 
viewpoint but the situation here is that Admiral would not have been on risk for the 
cancellation claim, had Mrs H declared her medical history correctly  as Admiral would not 
have provided Mr and Mrs H with a policy. So, I dont think this makes a difference to the 
outcome.
I also need to consider whether, by not declaring that she was on a waiting list for treatment, 
Mrs H acted recklessly or carelessly. I havent seen anything which suggests that Mrs H 
knew the information she was providing was misleading, or that she knew how her answer 
would be relevant to Admiral in deciding about her cover. Im satisfied she answered the 
question carelessly. The remedy available to insurers in these situations is that the policy 
can be made void  which means it is treated as though it didnt exist  and the premiums 
must be refunded. From what Ive seen so far, this hasnt happened. 
So, taking everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for Admiral to avoid the 
policy contract, but it must reimburse Mr and Mrs H for the premium they paid for the policy.
Putting things right
Admiral must reimburse Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid in premiums for the travel 
insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned I partially uphold this complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman