DRN-3409620
The complaint
Mr S in unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited didnt pay him a benefit under his income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Mr S has a short-term income protection policy which is designed to cover a portion of his
gross monthly income if hes made unemployed, provided by Amtrust. Mr S was made
redundant on 31 May 2018 and successfully claimed on the policy until 18 February 2019
when Amtrust ended the claim.
In their letter of 15 March 2019, Amtrust said that to resume the claim, Mr S needed to
continue to receive Jobseekers Allowance (JSA). Mr S stopped receiving JSA in February
2019 due to no longer qualifying for this benefit as a result of his savings. Amtrust said
theyd resume the claim once Mr S provided evidence that his JSA had been reinstated.
On 8 July 2020, Mr S JSA was reinstated, so he asked Amtrust to resume his claim. Amtrust
said this was a new claim because Mr S had been self-employed since 19 February 2019.
Amtrust declined the claim on the basis that Mr S had been in work and his business had
received about £39,000 gross profit since they ended his initial claim.
Mr S thinks his initial claim should be considered still open and the benefit paid because his
JSA had resumed. Mr S accepts that he had spent the previous 18 months building up his
own business and billed clients for the services provided but he doesnt think that constitutes
'work' in the context of the policy. Thats because the policy definition of work refers to a
paid occupation and he hasnt paid himself a wage due to his business not making a net
profit.
Mr S also says the policy definition of gross profit is used to determine whether a self-
employed person is eligible to receive a benefit and not to determine paid occupation. So, he
feels this definition is being inequitably applied to determine whether hes eligible to claim.
He considers this to be discriminatory because a self-employed person has to cover all their
business costs before they can generate a personal income from their activity.
Lastly, Mr S has said that he continued to pay the policy premiums after the claim was
terminated because he was told he couldnt claim again if he cancelled the policy. He now
feels he was misled and paid the premiums unnecessarily. So, he would like the premiums
refunded if his further claim isnt paid.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt
think Amtrust had acted unfairly when declining Mr S further claim in 2020. She thought
Amtrust were correct in concluding that he had been working and receiving an income in line
with the policy terms.
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision saying that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Amtrust have a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr S complaint in April 2019
Mr S complained to Amtrust about their decision to terminate the claim in February 
2019. On 10 April 2019 Amtrust issued their final response on this issue. They said 
theyd continue with the claim if Mr S re-registered with the DWP. They also said that 
Mr S may be eligible for the New Enterprise Allowance (NEA) scheme as he was 
focusing on a new business start-up but explained that:
Once NEA itself begins your claim would end from that point as you would normally 
need to be working at least 16 hours per week.
There are certain rules which say what we can and cant look at. These rules are set 
by the industry regulator and one of these sets out the time limits in which a 
complaint must be brought to our service. It states that, where a business doesnt 
agree, we cant consider a complaint which has been referred more than six months 
after the date of the final response letter telling the consumer they can refer their 
complaint to us.
Amtrusts letter of 10 April 2019 explained that Mr S could bring his complaint to our 
service within six months of the letter if he was unhappy with their decision. The 
letter also clearly said that if the complaint was not referred to us in time, we 
wouldnt have their permission to consider the complaint.
Mr S didnt contact our service until 22 December 2020, so the complaint was 
referred out of time under the rules I have to apply. And Im not aware of any 
exceptional circumstances that would have prevented Mr S from referring his 
complaint in time had he chosen so.
So, I cannot look into Amtrusts decision to terminate Mr S claim in February 2019.
Mr S complaint in November 2020
Mr S contacted Amtrust again once his JSA was reinstated on 8 July 2020. Amtrust 
declined the claim as Mr S had worked as self-employed since February 2019. Mr S 
complained and Amtrust issued their final response on 30 November 2020. Mr S 
referred his complaint to our service on 22 December 2020, so Ive looked at whether 
Amtrusts decision to decline the claim was fair.
The starting point is the contract between Mr S and Amtrust. To determine whether 
Amtrust have dealt with the claim fairly, Ive looked at the policy documents to see 
whether they applied their terms and condition is case. The policy terms
and conditions say the following:
What is covered
You can make a claim for benefit in the period of insurance if you become 
unemployed or a carer for a period longer than the excess period shown in 
your schedule and: your employment ends unexpectedly due to circumstances beyond 
your control; or
 you are self-employed and your business has permanently ceased to 
trade; or
 you stop work to become a full time carer for a member of your 
immediate family; or
 you are a contract worker and your contract ends 
unexpectedly due to circumstances beyond your control; or
 your fixed term contract reaches it natural expiry and you have 
worked for more than 12 months on a fixed term contract basis.
At the time Mr S contacted Amtrust again in July 2020, he had been self-employed 
since February 2019 and was still trading. So, Mr S didnt meet the criteria for a claim 
as his business hadnt permanently ceased to trade.
The policy defines Work, worked or working as:
Working 16 hours or more each week on an employed, self-employed or 
contract worker basis in any paid occupation which you may reasonably 
become qualified to do having regard to your training, education and ability.
Mr S doesnt think he has been working in the context of the above definition 
because although his business generated a gross profit, he wasnt able to pay 
himself a wage.
But Mr S was billing clients for his services, so I think he was performing a paid 
occupation. The policy defines Gross monthly income as:
If you are self-employed, the monthly average of the annual income you declared to 
HM Revenue & Customs on your self-assessment return for the tax year preceding 
the start date, the amendment date for any increase in monthly benefit or the start of
a period of claim.
I dont think Amtrust have unreasonably used the above definition in Mr S case. 
Theres no dispute that Mr S business has generated a gross income. And the 
policy documentation confirms that the policy is designed to cover a portion of the 
policyholders gross monthly income. So, I dont think Amtrusts consideration of 
gross income to be unreasonable in the circumstances.
I need to clarify that our service is unable to make a finding on whether or not 
something constitutes discrimination under the Equality Act 2010 (the Act). This is 
because we are an informal alternative to the courts, and only a court of law can 
make a legal finding based on the definitions set out within the Act. However, when 
thinking about whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably, I am required 
to take into account relevant law. And that can include the provisions of the Act. 
But employment status is not a protected characteristic under the Act. So, I dont 
think the Act is a relevant consideration here.
In any event, in this case, I havent found Amtrusts reliance on the above terms to 
be unfair or that Mr S has been treated differently from other self-employed 
policyholders.I note that such terms are common in these types of policies and, for the reasons 
Ive outlined above, I dont think it is unfair for Amtrust to rely on them. So, based 
on the available evidence, I dont think Mr S has been treated unfairly.
I understand Mr S feels he should be able to resume his initial claim. But when 
Amtrust ended his initial claim they made clear in their letter of 10 April 2019 that 
his claim would end from the point he became eligible for NEA as hed need to be 
working at least 16 hours per week.
Mr S has confirmed he was eligible for NEA during the time he was receiving JSA. 
So, I think Amtrust managed his expectations appropriately at the time as they 
indicated that his claim would end at that point.
The policy premiums
On 20 March 2019 Amtrust received a notification from the broker that Mr S had 
cancelled the policy. So, Amtrust wrote to Mr S to confirm the cancellation. The next 
day, the broker called Amtrust and asked what Mr S needed to do to continue with 
the claim as he wanted to reinstate his policy. Amtrust explained that Mr S was 
required to register with the job centre and provide evidence that he was 
networking/building his new business.
Amtrust have provided the notes of the call they had with Mr S later on that day. Mr S 
told Amtrust he regretted cancelling the policy and was transferred to the relevant 
department to reinstate the policy.
Im satisfied that Amtrust gave no guarantees to Mr S that his terminated claim 
would resume. So, I dont think he was misled into continuing to pay the policy 
premiums.
Mr S was aware that he could cancel the policy at any time, which he did do on
20 March 2019. However, he decided to continue with the policy despite receiving no 
guarantees that further claims would be paid.
Im satisfied that Mr S had the benefit of cover during this period and wouldve been 
able to make a successful cant reasonably require Amtrust to refund his premiums.
Amtrust said that they had nothing further to add. Mr S made a number of further comments. 
In summary he said: 
Amtrust had said that they were happy to continue the claim if he re-registered with 
the DWP and the claim could be suspended for the period he was not in receipt of 
JSA 
JSA only came to end because they started means testing him based on the level of 
his savings 
The value of £39 000 used in my assessment is not correct  his 2018/2019 tax 
return shows he received £35 000 from paid employment (in the form of salary and 
redundancy settlement). Although in 2019/2020 he received a gross profit thats not 
the same as saying he received a gross income. There was a net loss on his trading 
activity for that yearHe was never in a paid occupation after June 2018. He started working towards 
achieving a gross income through self-employment almost immediately after he was 
made redundant. Both the DWP and Amtrust were aware of this and it was not an 
issue then, so shouldnt be now as he didnt generate a gross income  
Saying that the claim was terminated isnt factually correct  it was suspended 
He has never received NEA benefit 
My reference to the outcome of the complaint in April 2019 is prejudicial and muddies 
the waters 
The discrimination he was referring to affects all self-employed people  it is 
discriminatory and inappropriate to use a trading gross profit to test a paid 
occupation as opposed to a personal gross income 
This is a personal income protection policy, not a business income protection policy. 
So, I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further evidence and comments provided by Mr S but they 
havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why.  
Mr S says, in summary, that the claim was suspended rather than terminated or ended. Ive 
looked at the documents he has sent in support of his position. But even if I accepted Mr Ss 
argument on that point it doesnt automatically follow that his complaint should be upheld. 
When Mr S tried to claim, or reinstate, the benefit payments again Amtrust reassessed the 
position and confirmed that it didnt think the relevant criteria in the policy was met. They 
explained that, in their view, Mr Ss circumstances had changed and it wouldnt have been 
possible to cover every eventuality in their previous correspondence to him. I think thats 
reasonable as Amtrust was responding to Mr S based on their knowledge of the 
circumstances at that time. And I dont think theyve treated Mr S unfairly by reassessing the 
circumstances again at the point that he wanted the payments to restart.Ive also considered what Mr S told us about his circumstances having not changed between 
the point that he made the claim and the point at which Amtrust refused to reinstate benefits. 
I dont agree thats the case. When Amtrust accepted the claim Mr S was in the process of 
setting up his new business but when Mr S wanted the payments to restart the business had 
been established and operating. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Amtrust to consider 
that the circumstances had changed during the relevant time. 
Mr S also told us that he doesnt know how Amtrust concluded that hed made £39 000 
gross profit. Hes explained that his tax return and pay slips show that he received a 
payment from his employer in the form a salary and a redundancy settlement. This was 
declared as employed income on his tax return. Even if I accepted that argument, I still dont 
think it has an impact on the overall outcome of this complaint. 
As I explained in my provisional decision the policy terms are clear that in order for a self-
employed person to successfully claim they must have permanently ceased trading. And, 
even if Mr S wasnt receiving a gross income, I remain satisfied he was in a paid occupation 
as defined by the policy terms I set out in my provisional decision. So, I still dont think it was 
unreasonable for Amtrust to conclude that Mr S didnt meet the policy terms and conditions. 
Even if he wasnt able to pay himself a wage from the business it was still trading, and Mr S 
was working for it. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ss comments about the unfairness of using gross profit as 
opposed to gross income to assess his claim. And, Ive considered his complaint on the 
basis that he had an income protection policy, as opposed to a business protection policy. 
However, as I explained in my provisional decision these are common terms in short term 
income protection policies and employment status is not a protected characteristic under the 
relevant legislation. My role is to decide whether Mr S has been treated fairly, bearing in 
mind the circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied that Amtrust has fairly and reasonably 
decided not to reinstate or restart the benefit payments.
Finally, Ive considered what Mr S has said about not receiving NEA and what hes said 
about the reference to the previous complaint he made to Amtrust. I dont think these points 
are central to the outcome of this complaint because I think Amtrust has explained why it 
couldnt accept the further (or re-instated) claim. I remain satisfied that Mr Ss circumstances 
werent covered by the policy and it was fair for them to decline it based on the policy terms 
and conditions. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman