DRN-4053960
The complaint
Mr M complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) lent to him without doing the right 
checks. 
What happened
Mr M took four loans from MFC and using the information available to me from its records 
here is a summary of those:
Loan Approved Amount Repaid
* repaid early
1 29 September 2021 £400 15 October 2021*
2 17 October 2021 £400 15 November 2021*
3 23 November 2021 £250 28 January 2022*
4 31 January 2022 £290 25 November 2022
Mr M complained to MFC and received its final response letter in which it gave detailed 
explanations as to what it had done before lending and it did not uphold his complaint. 
Mr M referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service and our adjudicator considered it all 
and thought that MFC had done all that would have been expected of it. 
Mr M responded to explain that MFC ought to have done more to find out that hew was a 
heavy gambler at the time he took these loans and they should never have been approved 
for him.
Our adjudicators second view remained the same and so Mr M requested that an 
ombudsman review the complaint.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. 
MFC was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint. Ive decided not to uphold his complaint 
and I explain here. 
MFC carried out proportionate checks as it verified Mr Ms income and checked his credit file 
which did not show any elements to prompt it to be unduly concerned. Copies of the credit 
search results have been sent to me and I have reviewed them. There was nothing there to 
indicate that Mr M was in financial difficulties or had been falling behind in his payments. 
MFC has explained it verified his income directly with his bank for loans 1 and 2 and for 
loans 3 and 4 it had asked for payslips which Mr M had provided and I have seen copies. 
For loans 1 and 2 Mr M had declared around £2,000 each month and the payslips for 
loans 3 and 4 showed Mr M received a salary after tax of £1,977 in December 2021 and 
£2,075 for January 2022.  
MFC was aware from Mr Ms applications that he lived at home with his parents. So, it was 
reasonable for MFC to proceed on the basis that Mr M was less exposed than other 
applicants to the fluctuations and inherent risks of having to be responsible for priority bills 
such as rent and utilities. I consider this to have had a bearing on the creditworthiness 
assessment and I consider that reasonable for MFC to have done that. 
MFC has explained in submissions to us that after loan 4 had been approved for Mr M he 
wrote to MFC to tell it hed lost his job. As MFC had seen his payslip for the January 2022 
period then I do not think that MFC was aware of any likely job loss at that time. It had asked 
Mr M each application to verify his position and his employment situation considering that 
the Covid 19 pandemic was relevant for those months. Mr M has explained to MFC and to us that he had a gambling issue and his summary that he 
spent several thousand pounds before loan 1 was approved by MFC certainly indicates a lot 
was spent. But it would not be expected that MFC would know of this, or ought to have 
known of this. 
The checks MFC carried out for a new customer applying for the early loans were 
proportionate and therefore within the regulations which applied. After that the sums applied 
for decreased and MFC has explained to us that this was deliberate to ensure that 
customers did not increase their liability and indebtedness by taking larger and larger loans.
 It would have been disproportionate for MFC to have asked for and reviewed Mr Ms bank 
statements at any stage of the four loan applications, or for me to expect it to have done 
that. Without seeing the bank transactions then I do not see how MFC would have known of 
the gambling costs unless Mr M had told it. And the evidence points to the fact he did not 
inform MFC of that. 
In all the circumstances I have decided that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Other cases
I am aware that Mr M has referred other complaints relating to other lenders to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Each set of circumstances surrounding the loan applications, the 
submissions and evidence each party provides differs. I appreciate that for Mr M the 
submission is the same  that he had a gambling problem and so the lenders ought to have 
known. But thats not always the case. Each complaint is reviewed on its own 
circumstances. I have added this short paragraph to explain a little more as he has other 
unresolved complaints with us. I hope it assists.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman