DRN-4237565
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (First Direct) says it wont 
refund her the money she lost through an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam).
What happened
In July 2022, Miss B received a message through an instant messaging app from someone 
who referred to her as Mum. 
They said theyd got a new phone number and asked Miss B to update the contact 
information. Ill refer to this person as D. Miss B only has one child and so assumed the 
message was from her daughter. Unfortunately, and unknown to Miss B at the time, D was a 
scammer.
After a short conversation, D asked Miss B to help her with something. Miss B says this was 
something shes used to doing as her daughter has five children and often asks for help. 
D said they had an invoice that needed to be paid that day (it was after 8pm in the evening).
D said because they had a new phone it would take a couple of days for their online banking 
to be activated again. That meant they couldnt make the payment themselves. D asked if 
Miss B could pay it on their behalf, and theyd pay Miss B back as soon as their online 
banking was restored.
D provided the payment details (for a personal account in a third partys name). D said the 
amount due was £2,500, but Miss B explained the maximum she could afford to pay was 
£1,000. D said theyd try and explain that (presumably to the payee).
Miss B doesnt use online banking herself. She called First Direct to make the payment 
(doing so in the belief she was helping her daughter with an urgent payment). 
Payment call  between Miss B and First Direct
Miss B asked what her available balance was including her overdraft facility. She then asked 
if she could pay £1,000 (representing almost the entire available balance) to someone she 
hadnt paid before. 
The agent asked if the payment was going to a person or a company? 
Miss B responded that she believed it was a private account.
She was asked what had prompted the payment, and explained: its my daughter, shes 
asked me to pay a payment because shes you know then shes going to give it back to 
me in two days time.
First Direct asked did you receive her bank details face to face or by calling a telephone 
number?  Miss B replied face to face
The agent then verified the payee details matched the account (using the confirmation of 
payee system) and the payment was made.
Next steps
After the payment was made Miss B tried to call the new phone number, but it seemed like 
the signal wasnt good and she couldnt hear the other person. Miss B says this wasnt 
unusual, her daughter has poor mobile service in her home. She didnt want to ring the 
landline as it was around the time her daughters children would be being put to bed.
The next morning, Miss B called her daughter at home on her landline, and it came to light 
that this hadnt been legitimate. She notified First Direct that shed been scammed. It 
attempted to recover her money from the beneficiary account, but none remained. 
First Direct is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. First 
Direct said one of those limited exceptions applied here. It said Miss B had given the wrong 
answer when it had asked her how shed received the payment details and this had 
prevented the bank from protecting her from the scam, such as by giving her a scam 
warning. First Direct said it did not need to refund Miss B.
In turn, two of our Investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint. Both thought it should be 
upheld. They didnt think First Direct was entitled to apply an exception to reimbursement 
under the terms of the CRM Code. First Direct hadnt been able to establish that Miss B had 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing what she did, or that shed 
ignored an effective warning given by First Direct. So First Direct should reimburse Miss B 
in full.
First Direct maintained its position. It was disappointed that it was being asked to refund 
Miss B. It said it had asked clear and unambiguous questions during its call with her about 
the payment. It had no reason to have doubted Miss Bs answers. If Miss B had given the 
correct information, then the bank could have warned her accordingly. The bank had no 
reason to assume she might have been contacted through the messaging app. The bank 
hadnt done anything wrong and so it wasnt fair it was being asked to refund Miss B.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our Investigators for largely similar 
reasons. 
Ive carefully considered First Directs representations about why it was not at fault in the 
payment being made and so why it considers it shouldnt now need to refund Miss B. But the 
banks representations do not persuade me to reach a different view. I will explain why.
The CRM Code provides significant additional protection to the victims of APP scams. While 
the code is voluntary in nature, First Direct is a signatory to the code, and as such has 
committed to assessing relevant APP scam payments in line with the provisions of the code. 
Im satisfied that the payment here falls within the scope of the CRM Code, and so Miss B 
benefits from the protections available under that code.
With this in mind, Ive considered whether First Direct has fairly assessed Miss Bs scam claim in line with the provisions of the CRM Code.
First Direct says that it is not required to refund Miss B for the money she lost. It has told our 
Investigator that this position follows from Miss Bs incorrect answer to its advisers question, 
which it explains prevented it from protecting her from the scam that unfolded.
I understand what First Direct seeks to argue here. If the CRM Code did not apply to this 
payment, then that argument might have some merit.
But as I have explained above, I find that the CRM Code does apply to this payment, and put 
simply, the CRM Code requires APP scam victims to be reimbursed in full, except where any 
of a limited number of exceptions apply.
Those exceptions relate to the victims actions and beliefs about the payment at the time of 
the scam. Where those dont apply, then the victim is to be reimbursed. That reimbursement 
isnt contingent upon whether the firm was at fault or could have prevented the scam from 
occurring. 
Indeed, even if it could not have been possible for the firm to have prevented the scam and 
the resulting financial loss, under the provisions of the CRM Code, the firm will most often 
still be liable to fully reimburse the scam victim. To quote section R1: Subject to R2, when a 
Customer has been the victim of an APP scam Firms should reimburse the Customer.
The relevant exceptions to full reimbursement are set out in the CRM Code at R2. If a firm 
seeks to rely on R2 as a reason not to reimburse a scam victim, then it needs to establish 
that one of the listed exceptions applies. 
First Direct hasnt been clear in setting out whether it considers any exceptions apply (and if 
it does, then neither has it indicated which). 
However, the exceptions are limited. Only three of the five possible exceptions listed under 
R2(1) could be relevant here. I will consider each of those in turn before turning to R2(2).
Can First Direct fairly rely on any of the exceptions to full reimbursement under R2?
Firstly, R2(1)(a) requires the firm to establish that: 
The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with SF1(2), 
by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning []
In the current instance, I dont think First Direct intends to argue that it gave Miss B an 
Effective Warning in compliance with SF1(2). Rather, it states it would have given Miss B an 
Effective Warning had she answered the agents question correctly. 
However, for this exception to be established, First Direct would need to, as a starting point, 
demonstrate that it provided an Effective Warning in compliance with the code. If it did not, 
then regardless of why it did not (whose fault that was) it cannot establish that a hypothetical 
warning was ignored. It cannot have been ignored, because none was given. It could never 
have been possible for Miss B to have failed to take appropriate action in response to a 
warning she did not receive.
Simply put, First Direct cannot rely on R2(1)(a) here.
Secondly, R2(1)(c) may only be applied where a firm can establish: In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of the 
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the payee was the person 
the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
While First Direct does not argue that Miss B made the payment without such a reasonable 
basis for belief, I have considered whether this might be a reason that the bank might 
choose not to reimburse Miss B.
But I am not persuaded First Direct could fairly seek rely on this exception. I am persuaded 
by Miss Bs testimony that at the time she made the payment she was convinced she was 
interacting with her daughter about an urgent payment, and more importantly I think it wasnt 
unreasonable of her to have held that belief in all the circumstances at the time.
In saying that, Ive taken into account that this wasnt an especially complex scam. Rather, 
its success was largely based on context and coincidence. In that context, the scam 
cynically exploited Miss Bs natural desire to help her daughter. The apparent similarities to 
the genuine relationship between Miss B and her daughter lead me to find it was both 
plausible and persuasive for Miss B in the moment. I find this having given careful 
consideration to the messages Miss B received from D - and taken into consideration her 
further comments to First Direct and to our Investigator about what she thought at the time 
and why. 
The scammer seems to have picked up on Miss Bs lack of confidence with technology in the 
messages (such as in the exchange checking shed been able to update the contact details). 
Miss B says it wasnt unusual for her to make and receive payments from her daughter 
which is consistent with her account history in the twelve months prior to the scam. 
Im also persuaded by Miss Bs explanation that she was used to helping her daughter, 
particularly because she recognised the demands presented by her daughters five young 
children. Miss B says that meant it was usual for her and her daughter to mainly interact 
through messaging rather than a phone call. Further at the time of interaction she says shed 
been aware it was near the childrens bedtimes so a call to the house landline wouldnt have 
been welcomed.
Of course, there was little besides this context to validate Miss Bs belief that D really was 
her daughter. However, all considered, I dont think she was unreasonable in holding that 
belief  that contextual coincidence operated against her. And critically, to show this 
exception could fairly be applied, the bank would need to demonstrate that Miss B didnt hold 
that belief reasonably. I dont find it has established this.
Therefore, taking all of the circumstances surrounding the payment into account, I am not 
satisfied First Direct can rely on this exception to reimbursement.
The final exception that could conceivably be relevant to Miss Bs case is R2(1)(e):
The Customer has been grossly negligent. []
The CRM Code does not provide a specific definition of gross negligence. In line with the 
interpretation adopted by the FCA in its guidance document to the Payment Services 
Regulations I take the view that gross negligence is: a higher standard than the standard 
of negligence under common law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant 
degree of carelessness. I do not find this can be fairly applied here. As reasoned above, I have found the scam was 
plausible and persuasive to Miss B in the circumstances. I do not find she was very 
significantly careless in that respect. 
I have specifically considered whether Miss B showed a very significant degree of 
carelessness in the answers she gave to First Directs agent when she made the payment 
using telephone banking  in particular when she stated: face to face. First Direct has 
provided the relevant call recording and I have carefully reviewed the overall interaction with 
this in mind.
In the context of the call, Im not satisfied the importance of the question and did you 
receive her bank details face to face or by calling a telephone number? was made apparent 
to Miss B. The question is closed and seems designed to elicit a negative response. Neither 
option offered by the agent applied to Miss B. 
Im persuaded that with Miss Bs desire to make the payment without delay, the time taken to 
reach this point in the call and her concerns about how shed finance the payment, the 
significance of this seemingly innocuous question would not have been sufficiently evident to 
her at that very moment. By contrast, in the cold light of day, I see no reason to believe that 
Miss B would not have answered correctly  in rejecting both options shed been given. But 
at the time, I dont think she was aware of why the answer mattered or the consequences of 
not pausing to think and give the most accurate answer she could. 
So, I dont find Miss B was grossly negligent here  I dont find she was very significantly 
careless in the answer she gave. On the contrary, I find her answer understandable given 
the situation she was in at the relevant time, and in response to a closed question that didnt 
appear to offer her a valid option. 
Neither do I find Miss B was very significantly careless in any other relevant respects. That 
means I dont find First Direct is entitled to rely on exception R2(1)(e).
For completeness, under section R2(2) the CRM Code contains a provision applying where:
[] during the process of assessing whether the Customer should be reimbursed, the 
Customer has acted dishonestly or obstructively in a material respect.
I dont think Miss B was acting dishonestly in answering the agents questions  at most she 
did so with a slight degree of carelessness, but I dont find this could fairly be classed as 
dishonesty. In any event this clause cannot apply here. It refers to dishonest or obstructive 
acts occurring during the process of assessing whether the customer should be 
reimbursed. Nothing Ive seen suggests this is applicable here. 
What the CRM Code requires of First Direct
Given that I find none of the exceptions to full reimbursement can fairly be applied in 
Miss Bs case, it follows that First Direct should have fully reimbursed her (under provision 
R1 of the CRM Code). I therefore find First Direct was at fault here  it did not do so when it 
assessed her claim.
Miss B was able to mitigate some of the financial implications of the scam by borrowing from 
friends and family, so avoiding interest and overdraft charges shed otherwise have incurred. 
But she was deprived of the money lost to the scam for longer than she should have been 
due to First Directs failure to reimburse her in line with the requirements of the CRM Code. 
In all the circumstances, I therefore consider it fair for First Direct to now add interest to the 
sum she lost at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date it first declined to reimburse her to the date of settlement.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I find it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that 
Miss B ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc trading as First Direct to:
 Pay Miss B the amount of the remaining loss, that being the sum of £1,000, within 
28 days of receiving notification of Miss Bs acceptance of my final decision; plus,
 Pay interest on that sum at the rate of 8% simple per year (less any tax properly 
deductible) calculated from the date the bank first declined to reimburse Miss B until 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman