DRN-4075169
The complaint
Mr K has complained about his motorhome insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect of a 
claim made to it when a car and his motorhome collided. 
What happened
Mr K was turning right into a side road in early May 2021. A car was overtaking him and the 
vehicles collided  the car impacting the area of the front right wheel of the motorhome. 
Mr K, in the motorhome, mounted the opposite pavement and a garden wall of a home, 
before coming to a stop in the garden. And the car landed on its roof, in the side road 
partially over the pavement, near the mounting point of the motorhome. The driver of the car 
was able to exit it. Mr K believed he had moved and indicated correctly to show he was 
turning and that the other driver had incorrectly moved to overtake him whilst speeding. AXA 
acted on that basis, advising the third-party insurer (TPI) that it was holding its driver (TPD) 
liable for the incident. 
In September 2021 Mr Ks claims handler received the accident report form from the TPD. 
The TPD blamed Mr K. The TPD said that Mr K had been stationary, with his hazard lights 
on when he had acted to manoeuvre around the motorhome. AXA felt that, at best, Mr K 
would be found to be 30% liable for the incident as he must have failed to check his mirrors. 
Mr K wasnt happy with that, he believed he had not been at fault at all. AXA decided to get a 
copy of the police collision report. 
The police report wasnt received by AXA until late June 2022. Around that time AXAs field 
investigator was reviewing the details of the incident and arranged to interview both Mr K 
and the TPD. AXA reviewed the report from its investigator, the statements taken, the police 
report and obtained advice from a solicitor. AXA felt it could not safely continue to contest 
liability for the incident to any degree  it felt that it would not be possible to succeed in court, 
even given Mr Ks belief the TPD was speeding. It moved to settle the claim without 
prejudice on the basis of Mr K being 100% liable for the incident. 
Mr K felt that decision was unfair, and unreasonably communicated to him, on a Friday 
afternoon after the claim had been on-going for so long. He was also unhappy about the 
delays in asking for and then obtaining the police report. He felt if the police had been 
approached earlier, theyd have looked into the issue of speeding.
AXA said it acknowledged its communications with Mr K, at times, could have been better. It 
apologised and paid him £100 compensation. But it said it had not caused any delays 
regarding the police report and its claims decision had been taken only after a long 
investigation and receiving legal advice. In these respects it felt it hadnt done anything 
wrong.
Mr K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator felt AXA had acted 
fairly and reasonably. He wasnt minded to make it do anything more. 
Mr K said he couldnt understand how we could think AXAs decision was reasonable when it 
had seemed to have overlooked discrepancies in the accounts of the incident given by the 
TPD. He said that AXAs claim investigator had also changed the words of his statement 
after he had signed it. Further the only independent witness to the incident had only viewed it 
from some distance away. Mr K said it was clear to him that if all the evidence was looked at 
and properly considered, he would be held blameless.
Mr K provided copies of evidence  photos and statements  he felt were relevant. Our 
Investigator reviewed the comments and details sent. Her confirmed to Mr K they had not 
changed his view on the complaint. As Mr K remained unhappy his complaint was passed 
for an Ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this is an upsetting situation for Mr K to be in. And I can see that he firmly 
believes that he did nothing wrong to cause this accident. I also appreciate that he thinks 
that if the police report had been obtained sooner and/or if certain irregularities had been 
noted and investigated further, the situation would be different. But having taken all of this 
into account, Im not persuaded AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way in handling 
and settling the claim.
I can see that Mr K has a clear eye for detail. And I think there are some discrepancies in the 
accounts given by the TPD. In the statement given to the police the TPD said Mr K was 
stopped and the lights were on. The later accounts refer to the TPD seeing Mr K put his 
hazard lights on and come to a stop. I can see that Mr K might think the account of the TPD 
is unreliable. I appreciate that would frustrate Mr K given that, from his perspective, he has 
given an accurate account of events, but has been found to be in the wrong. But I dont think 
it is the case that AXA has disregarded that detail or the possibility of an inaccuracy. 
AXA, its field investigator and the solicitor it referred maters to, all reviewed all of the 
available evidence when considering the issue of liability. The fact that none of them felt the 
irregularity highlighted by Mr K was of any consequence does not mean it wasnt noted. 
Rather, from their experienced perspective  experienced that is in accident claims  their 
focus fell mainly on other evidence and what impact that would likely have if the matter 
proceeded to court. 
The most important view, for me, was that of AXAs solicitor. The solicitor has the most 
appropriate knowledge and experience of what happens at court in respect of liability claims. 
The solicitor was clearly aware that Mr K thought the TPD had been speeding. But his view 
was that as the TPD was established in his manoeuvre at the time the vehicles came 
together, and Mr K was the one who was turning, it would be unlikely the TPD would be 
found solely to blame. And any finding of fault on the part of Mr K at all would affect his claim 
record  whether that was as little as 30% at fault or 100%.   
I also note that AXA felt the independent witnesss statement was relevant. The independent 
witness corroborated the TPDs account of Mr K having his hazard lights on all the while 
whilst the TPD was moving past him, and even as Mr K began to turn. This witness was on 
the other side of the road driving towards Mr K and the TPD. Whilst I dont doubt that if this 
had gone to court, the court would have taken account of the witnesss distance from the 
scene, I dont see that would have impacted the worth of her statement regarding the hazard 
lights. So whilst Mr K felt his intention to turn was clear, such that the TPD shouldnt have 
been trying to pass him, I can see AXAs concern that the witnesss statement casts doubt 
on that.  I understand that Mr K does not like or agree with the liability decision AXA came to. But 
I think it correctly, in the first instance, took Mr Ks side and approached this as an issue of 
fault on the part of the TPD. I also think that when new evidence came in, which Mr K 
disputed, AXA acted correctly to obtain a copy of the police report. I dont think it had 
necessary cause to look to get this sooner. I think, when this wasnt received, it reasonably 
chased its provision. I also think it completed other relevant and reasonable enquiries. I think 
its view on the accident changed in light of all of that, including the expert consideration it 
sought and received. I think, overall, especially bearing in mind the policy terms which allow 
it to settle claims in the way it sees fit and that it settled this claim on a without prejudice 
basis, it acted fairly and reasonably.
I realise it was upsetting for Mr K to receive AXAs decision on liability in the way that he did. 
Im not persuaded though that being given this decision at any other time of the week would 
have made it any easier to receive. And I think its fair to say that it is the decision itself, 
rather than the method and timing of its communication that is the real cause for concern for 
Mr K. I note AXA has paid £100 compensation. Im not persuaded, given everything Ive 
seen, that it would be fair or reasonable for me to make AXA do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman