DRN-3560430
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked a payment and restricted access to 
his account.
What happened
Mr N had an account with Nationwide. In March 2021, Mr N tried to make a payment for 
£2,060.00. He says hed arranged to pay money to a relative overseas  and so a third party 
would send money to his relative, and hed then send money from his own account to the 
third party. The payment was blocked by Nationwides special investigation department  
and at the same time a restriction was placed on Mr Ns account.
 
Nationwide said that to unblock the account, Mr N would need to provide evidence that the 
relative had received the funds from the third party. Mr N responded with a copy of his own 
bank statement. Nationwide said it wanted a screenshot of the relatives account showing 
the payment and who it was from or a similar sort of receipt from them.
Dissatisfied, Mr N complained to Nationwide and referred the complaint to us.
During our investigation, Nationwide confirmed that it removed the restrictions from the 
account. The original block was imposed on 2 March 2021. The restriction on transactions 
was lifted on 9 April 2021. But access to online banking remained blocked until November 
2021. It appeared that some information that Nationwide received in March hadnt been 
reviewed until July and so no further action had taken place. Nationwide accepts that much 
of this could have been avoided and that this led to inconvenience to Mr N  and that it was 
willing to offer compensation for the poor service.
Our investigator looked at this, and recommended Nationwide pay Mr N £300.
Nationwide agreed. Mr N doesnt agree. He asks whether £300 is the worth of peoples lives 
and future. He also wanted to know how we arrived at a figure of £300. 
Our investigator replied saying shed taken into account the information Mr N had previously 
provided, but he hadnt responded to our requests for information about the impact this all 
had on him. Which is why she thought £300 was fair.
In response, Mr N said that in addition to the blocks on his account, he wasnt able to use his 
debit card. He also said that further direct debits had gone unpaid than the ones listed in the 
investigators assessment. 
Our investigator said this didnt change her conclusions  and referred the complaint to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accepts there were service failings in this case. So I need to consider whether it 
acted fairly and reasonably in blocking access to Mr Ns account  and whether the amount 
its now agreed to pay Mr N is fair.
Ive first looked at what happened. Mr N tried to make a payment of £2,060 to a third party. 
He told Nationwide that this was a service to transfer money to a relative overseas. Hed 
received the account details over an instant messaging service. Nationwide has told Mr N 
this payment was blocked for security purposes.
Ive thought about this. I see that the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ns account 
allowed Nationwide to refuse to make payments in line with its security controls. The terms 
and conditions also allowed Nationwide to restrict access to internet banking where 
necessary to protect either Mr N or Nationwide from fraud. Nationwide was also expected to 
have processes and procedures in place to monitor transactions to protect both it and its 
customers from fraud and financial crime.
Looking at the statements for Mr Ns accounts, I note that the payment of £2,060 was much 
larger than the other normal payments from the account, and appears to have been to a 
payee that Mr N hadnt paid before. In the circumstances, I dont think Nationwide acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in asking Mr N for information about this payment, or putting 
restrictions on the account while it waited for this.
Nonetheless, Id expect Nationwide to carry out its review in a timely manner. Here it seems 
Mr N provided them with some information in March 2021 that wasnt reviewed until July 
2021. In the meantime some of the blocks had been lifted, while others  specifically, access 
to online banking  hadnt. Nationwide accepts that it could have sorted things out a lot 
quicker. I agree.
Ive therefore considered the impact this has all had on Mr N. 
To be clear, where I award compensation for distress and inconvenience, this isnt to punish 
the business but to reflect the impact its actions had on the customer. 
Ive thought about what Mr N has said about that. He says that he lost access to his account. 
He says that around this time his debit card was confiscated by an ATM, so he couldnt use 
this to make payments either. He also says direct debits were cancelled.
Looking at Mr Ns statements, I can see that the restriction on the account caused him to 
miss direct debits towards his TV license in April, as well as a further direct debit to another 
business. But after the block was removed, on 9 April, direct debits were paid successfully. 
I also see that on the day the block was removed, Mr Ns debit card was reported as lost. I 
see a replacement card was issued on 20 April. The statements show that by May Mr N was 
making contactless payments again.
Finally, I note Mr N lost access to online banking until November 2021.
Thinking about all of this, I dont doubt this was inconvenient for Mr N. Although I accept itd 
take some time for Nationwide to complete its review, Nationwide didnt proactively continue 
its investigation, which meant all of this went on for longer than was necessary before he got 
full access to his account. 
With all this in mind, I think £300 is a fair resolution to Mr Ns complaint.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay 
Mr N £300 for the trouble and upset it caused. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman