DRN-3745961
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his property insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc regarding a claim he 
made to it when his home was damaged by subsidence.
What happened
Mr A noted damage in 2018 and made a claim to AXA. He was unhappy about the claims 
progress and plans for repair. AXA agreed to appoint an independent engineer (IE) to assist 
and Mr A provided some expert reports. In summer 2021 work to stabilise and reinstate 
Mr As home began. Whilst the stabilisation was completed, and the reinstatement contractor 
began their portion of the work, problems arose. This culminated with the reinstatement 
contactor walking off the job in August 2021 and Mr A presenting a quote for his own 
contractor to complete the work. The IE considered the quote but felt it was over-priced and 
included things AXA likely wasnt liable for.
Mr A and his family had been living elsewhere to allow the works to be done. They were due 
to move home in October 2021 but with the works outstanding this couldnt happen. AXA 
said it would pay Mr A the price the IE felt was fair for the work quoted, or instruct another 
contractor to complete the work. It said it would pay a further six-months rent for the family to 
live elsewhere, but no further storage costs. Mr A was unhappy and reverted to this service, 
having originally contacted us in 2019.
Our Investigator noted that AXA was still reviewing the alternative accommodation (AA) 
issue, including storage, as Mr A had instructed solicitors and negotiations were on-going. 
She also noted AXA wanted to review compensation for upset at the end of the claim. She 
felt it was fair for those matters to be reviewed later. She also noted AXA needed to give 
Mr A its view on Mr As request for it to contribute towards repairing/replacing the front path 
and side-access door. She otherwise felt that AXA should provide Mr A with a clear 
breakdown of what it felt the work would cost.
AXA said it was happy with the findings. Mr A said he was disappointed by them  that he 
felt our Investigator had just accepted everything AXA had said. His complaint was passed 
to me for an ombudsmans consideration.
I felt the complaint should be upheld in part, for reasons and in ways different to those set 
out by our Investigator. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views and suggested 
redress to both parties. My provisional findings were: 
The parties will note that my background above is brief. But I can assure both parties that 
I have considered everything that has happened. And Ill include further detail, as relevant to 
my findings, on each topic I discuss below.  
AA (including the home office) and storage post October 2021, compensation and path/door
This service will consider complaints where positions of stalemate have been reached. That 
is not where these aspects of Mr As complaint are at this time. I know Mr A is unhappy with 
what has happened and what has been said so far. But AXA has confirmed it is still 
reviewing these aspects and will look at what compensation it feels is due for upset once the 
claim, as a whole, has concluded. So it would be premature and unfair of me to say anything 
about any of these issues at this stage. 
Clothing
Mr A and his family moved out of their home in summer 2021 and put a lot of their personal 
belongings, including clothes into storage. They expected to be out of their home for a 
month, although that was extended to two fairly quickly. However, into September 2021 they 
found they needed attire for a family wedding. They checked the storage but couldnt find 
what they needed. So they bought new items and asked AXA to reimburse them. AXA said it 
would not. 
I appreciate this was a frustrating situation for Mr A to be in. But Im not persuaded that it 
would be reasonable to make AXA reimburse these sums. Mr A and his family had access to 
their belongings, but couldnt find the items they wanted for the wedding. I understand that 
they wouldnt have been in that position but for AXAs contractor completing poor work, 
failing to take care of their home and then walking off the job. But that isnt reason enough 
for me to say AXA must fairly pay for wedding attire merely because items that would 
otherwise have been used couldnt be found.
Bathroom
Part of the problem with the contractor failing to take care of Mr As home was that, in breach 
of an agreement, it used Mr As family bathroom. The contractors used it as a general 
convenience, even though alternative arrangements for that were on site, and to mix 
materials (in the bath). The IE said it would be possible to reinstate the bathroom by 
completing a deep clean, or perhaps, as punishment to make the contractor pay towards the 
bathroom being replaced. The latter of which was Mr As (and seemingly the IEs) preferred 
option. AXA said it would compensate Mr A for his bathroom being used by paying him 
£1,000, but that it didnt feel that replacing it was required. 
I understand how unhappy Mr A is about his bathroom being used by the contractors in this 
way. Especially when there was an express agreement for them to use the other facilities 
provided. And I note the options the IE gave Mr A, along with his preferred choice. But this 
service does not look to punish insurers, either for their own actions or those of their agents. 
I know Mr A says he couldnt trust that a deep clean would resolve everything, that he even 
went so far as to replace the soil pipe as he was worried about contamination. But bathroom 
facilities are designed to be capable of being cleaned and sanitised. If it had been cleaned 
and, for example, evidence of materials having been mixed in the tub had remained, then 
I might think AXA should have been looking at a remedy taking into account replacement 
costs. As it is, I think its offer of £1,000, which Mr A could have used to clean or as a 
contribution towards replacing the bathroom, was a fair and reasonable remedy. 
Flooring
Mr As carpets were removed and disposed of. He said the reinstatement contractor had 
turned up without any material or equipment to protect the carpets and that the IE had told 
him the carpets wouldnt survive the work. Mr A said the IE agreed to ask AXA to contribute 
£5,000 towards their replacement. However, the IE said Mr A had told him he wasnt going 
to keep the carpets, so, rather than protect them, they were left in place during the work and 
disposed of in agreement with Mr A. 
Looking at what has been said most recently, it seems Mr A and the IE have opposing 
recollections of what they said to each other. And I wasnt present during their conversation so I cant know which recollection is likely correct. But Mr A has shared with us an email from 
July 2022 between himself and the IE. In that email the IE said that Mr A had said he 
intended to dispose of the carpets and that it was also Mr A that suggested AXA contribute 
towards their replacement in lieu of paying to protect them. Mr A, in his reply, doesnt dispute 
that, in fact he says that any attempt to protect the carpets will, in his view, most likely be 
futile, it wont be possible to clean them. Mr A said, in that email, as a result, hed like AXA to 
pay him a betterment contribution. So Im not persuaded that the carpets ultimately needed 
replacing due to any failure of AXAs contractors to protect them. I think even if they had 
been protected Mr A would always have looked to replace them. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say AXA must fairly contribute towards their replacement. 
However, because Mr A felt he would need to replace the carpets due to the works, AXA did 
save on the cost of cleaning them at the end of the works. That was a claim cost AXA 
should always have incurred but which Mr As decision mitigated. So I do think its fair for me 
to require AXA to pay an amount to Mr A in lieu of cleaning the carpets at his home. I think 
its reasonable to say a deep clean of the carpets would likely have cost around £750, so Ill 
require AXA to pay that sum to Mr A. I think AXA could reasonably have chosen to offer this 
sum when it reviewed Mr As contractors costs which included a sum for replacing the 
flooring. So Im going to require it to pay interest on the sum of £750 from 15 October 2021 
(which was the date of its cash settlement offer) until payment is made.
Windows and doors
Mr A wants AXA to pay £5,200 as his cost incurred to replace the lounge bay and two front 
bedroom windows, along with the French doors at his home. He says they were affected by 
subsidence and formed part of the initial repairs works scope in 2019 and 2020 before the 
stabilisation works were queried and the IE reviewed that. The IE said he didnt think the 
windows and doors had been affected by the subsidence  but a windows specialist should 
consider the issue. AXA appointed a window expert, and Mr A asked his window contractor 
for a report. Both considered the windows before they were replaced. 
Mr As contractor said the lounge bay and one (of two) front bedroom windows along with 
the French doors were damaged beyond repair. He said they needed to be replaced. But did 
not say what had caused the problems he had found. Mr A said that was because experts in 
2019 and 2020 had already determined theyd been affected by the subsidence. Mr A also 
said the cause shouldnt matter because his policy covers him for most things, including 
accidental damage. 
AXAs expert looked at the damage and problems which existed with the windows/doors and 
noted the location of any movement which had occurred due to the subsidence subject of 
the claim. He noted the lounge bay and front bedroom windows, along with the French 
doors, had largely moved away from and in the opposite direction to the subsidence. So he 
felt the damage was largely historic, possibly related to a different period of movement. But 
he noted damage to the bay likely caused by this episode of subsidence. And AXA also 
accepted that the furniture of the bedroom window had suffered during the works too. But it 
felt that in respect of those issues, repairs could be completed. So it offered £750, plus VAT 
(£900) in settlement for the windows. Its recently clarified that offer to be subject to a 
deduction of £310 plus VAT (£372). This was a figure allowed for in the overall settlement as 
a possible potential cost AXA might be liable for in respect of damage to the windows.
I know that in an earlier stage of the claim, the loss adjuster at that time proposed 
replacement of the doors and windows. And Mr A agreed to that. But with the involvement of 
the IE and the claim generally being reviewed, that original opinion was superseded. Mr A 
wanted AXA to revise its settlement offer and plans for repair, and it did. That reasonably 
included everything which had previously been agreed, including in respect of the windows and doors. But, having seen an email Mr A sent just before the reinstatement work started in 
2021, I accept that he did not realise that. So I can understand that he was upset and 
frustrated when he realised much later on that the windows and doors had not even been 
factored in by the IE. AXA, in my view, should have managed this aspect better so that Mr A 
fully understood from the outset that appointing the IE would mean that everything would be 
reviewed. Because it did not, I think it should compensate him for the loss of expectation he 
suffered. I think £250 is a fair and reasonable sum in this respect. But I cant fairly and 
reasonably say AXA should pay Mr A for the replacement windows and doors.
The only current expert evidence that considers the cause of the damage to the windows 
and doors is that of AXAs expert. Ive referenced his findings above. I know Mr A thinks it is 
relevant that AXAs expert has not commented on the windows and doors in the areas of the 
house that were not worked on and which remain in good condition. But I dont think that the 
condition of those windows reasonably means a causal connection must be made between 
the works and the damaged windows. I find Im most persuaded by what AXAs expert has 
said. AXA has offered the price for repair. Whist Mr As contractor has stated they cant be 
repaired, I think that is clearly due to other issues with the windows which AXAs expert has 
shown are not related to this episode of subsidence or works. As such I think AXAs offer 
based on what it would cost to repair the windows, as those repairs could be done but for the 
other damage which AXA isnt liable for, is fair and reasonable. Im also satisfied that the 
sum offered by AXA reasonably represents the price Mr A would face for repair if just that 
work needed to be done. And AXA deducting an amount from that which has already been 
paid in respect of the windows and doors, also seems fair to me. So, other than an additional 
payment of interest, Im not minded to make AXA pay more to Mr A for the damaged 
windows and doors. 
AXA offered the sum to Mr A on 6 April 2022 but did not pay it at that time. Nor did it note, at 
that point, that a partial payment of this sum for the windows had already been paid. As AXA 
had accepted it was minimally liable for the total sum of £900, the outstanding part of that  
£528  should have been paid without delay. Im, therefore, minded to think AXA should pay 
a sum to Mr A equivalent to interest* applied to the amount of £528 (£900 minus £372) from 
6 April until final payment for the windows is made.  
Mr As policy does cover him for loss or damage to items. But that does not mean that AXA 
must make him good for any damage howsoever and whensoever sustained. The policy 
excludes wear and tear, for example. And, other than in respect of historic movement, that is 
what AXAs expert puts the damage to the windows down to. But I dont see that AXA has 
ever considered whether the historic movement damage might be something it would cover 
under the policy. If Mr A wants it to, he would need to make a claim to it in that respect for it 
to be considered. In respect of this current claim, given the evidence I have seen, and even 
taking into account what happened in the earlier stages of the claim, I think AXAs refusal to 
settle for replacing the windows and French doors is fair and reasonable. 
Reinstatement settlement
Mr As contractor quoted £83,107.20 inc VAT. AXA said it would pay him £35,725.20, later 
increasing this to £36,375.20 (both inc VAT). Or it would instruct a contractor to do the work. 
Mr A felt it should pay his whole cost. Not least as he believed this had been authorised by 
the IE. 
I dont think it is fair to say the IE did authorise this. He clearly had Mr A sign mandates and 
thought AXA would agree to the work going ahead. But I think he was trying to manage the 
claim in such a way as to reduce the risk of delays. I think he was clear with Mr A and the 
contractor, that these provisional steps were being taken pending authorisation from AXA 
being received. From detail the IE sent to AXA, he clearly had doubts about some of the work and the total costs quoted for. But he sought AXAs agreement to trade any concerns 
in that respect for savings in costs for AA. AXA though wasnt minded to do that. 
AXA, like most insurers, wanted to pay only for what it was liable for. So it didnt want to pay 
for things like the bathroom  replacement costs for which featured in Mr As contractors 
quote. And it didnt want to pay anything it felt was inflated either. I know Mr A says the work 
cost more due to his location. But I see the IE took the location and extra costs that might 
cause into account when analysing the repair quote. It was the IEs assessment that brought 
the circa £83,000 asked for, down to the initial final offer AXA made of £35,725.20. Im 
satisfied that was a fair and reasonable offer made by AXA and I dont intend to make it pay 
or do anything more in respect of Mr As contractors costs.
However, AXA knew in October 2021 that Mr A did not want its contractor to do the work. 
Whilst Mr A wasnt inclined to accept its cash offer in settlement of his claim, AXA knew it 
was minimally liable to him for over £35,000 of repairs. AXA should have looked to pay him 
what it believed its liability was. It wasnt fair for it to hold onto that money. In line with our 
usual approach, I intend to require AXA to pay an amount equivalent to interest to Mr A on 
the sum of £35,725.20 from 15 October 2021 until settlement was made. And on the 
additional amount of £650 from the date it was offered until settlement was made. 
Expert costs 2019/2020
Mr A paid for an experts view and investigation costs into the cause of subsidence at his 
home, with a view to determining a satisfactory stabilisation method. He was invoiced for 
these in January 2020 and paid £1,020 and £210. Evidence of these costs were sent to AXA 
on 20 January 2020. AXA eventually reimbursed them in 2022. I think AXA should and could 
have reimbursed theses sums earlier. It should now pay Mr A an amount equivalent to 
interest* on each sum, from 20 January 2020 until settlement of each was made.
AXA said it would welcome a decision from me on part of the disputed AA issue. It said 
paying anything to Mr A for the carpets would equate to betterment as he had disposed of 
them. It argued Mr A must reasonably have realised that getting an IE involved would mean 
the whole claim was reviewed, not just the part he had disputed. Regarding interest, AXA 
said it hadnt paid the sums it felt it was liable for because it knew Mr A was unhappy with 
the figures and would dispute them. So it felt it had acted in accordance with Mr As wishes 
in not paying the sums and shouldnt, therefore, be liable for paying interest.
Mr A responded against the content of my decision document, and he provided further 
evidence in support of his points. In summary:
He added detail to the background and said AXA hadnt provided the breakdown Id said 
our Investigator had recommended.
Mr A said AXA keeps delaying the issue of AA and compensation, so I should make a 
decision on these issues.
All personal belongings, save only what was needed for four weeks during the summer, 
were put into storage. Photos show the impossibility of the task they faced finding items 
in large containers which had not been packed by them.
Bathrooms are not designed to be cleaned in the circumstances which occurred here, 
which included use of carcinogenic materials. The sum of £1,000 is not fair when the 
agreement not to use the bathroom was clearly breached.
Mr A said he hadnt agreed to leave the carpets in place  why would he when they 
would obviously be damaged by heavy equipment (shown in photos). And the plans for 
the carpets changed when AXAs contractor arrived late, ill-prepared to start work. And it 
was the IE who had instigated the discussion about the carpet in the lounge only  but then carpets in the whole house were removed by AXAs contractor. Any agreement he 
gave regarding the carpets only came after the IE agreed to approach AXA to pay £500. 
Cleaning the carpets was never an option and, in any event, removal of the carpets 
meant this couldnt have happened.
AXA never explained that the IE would review everything. And its not fair for AXA to just 
change its mind on a whim. It was the previous loss adjuster and others involved in the 
claim which confirmed the windows were affected by subsidence. AXAs window expert, 
when appointed was not FENSA registered or otherwise suitably qualified to be 
considered a window specialist. Repairing the windows had been attempted, 
unsuccessfully, previously. The damaged windows were not compared to those which 
are not damaged. No payment has been received.
He obtained a quote because AXA asked for it and that was the only contractor available 
at the time. And that quote was authorised as evidenced in an email. He said it is unclear 
how the quote could be reworked and he has never seen a final breakdown. Only the 
figure excluding VAT should be considered and if the disputed costs such as the 
bathroom are removed, the amount over and above his quote is less than the extra AA 
payment made. Neither the IE not AXA tried to negotiate the costs with him. AXA did 
nothing after August, he had to guess what would happen next.
There were delays and poor communication throughout, with him and even the IE. Even 
at important times like when authorisation for his quote was pending.
His policy, which AXA has sought to mislead us about, is for priority, prestige cover. It 
was purchased to ensure his life would be interrupted as little as possible in the event of 
a claim and AXA has used the wrong policy to the detriment of his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Background
Ive noted Mr As comments. But Im satisfied that my background is a reasonable summary 
of what happened. And AXA hasnt provided the breakdown recommended by the 
Investigator because her findings werent accepted and, instead, the complaint progressed 
to consideration by an Ombudsman.
AA (including the home office) and storage post October 2021, compensation and path/door
As I said above, the AA issue hasnt got to a position of stalemate, negotiations are ongoing 
as to whether AXA will pay for costs post October 2022. It would be unfair for me to then 
comment on any aspect of that as my findings couldnt help but inform the direction of the 
ongoing negotiations and that is not my role. And it makes sense for compensation to be 
considered at the end of the claim, rather than in a piecemeal way. Especially as how the AA 
is being handled and the decision that is reached in that respect will likely be relevant to any 
view reached regarding compensation.
Clothing
Ive reviewed Mr As points in this respect. I accept he was in a difficult situation. Im still not 
persuaded I can reasonably require AXA to pay for the clothes purchased.
Bathroom
I appreciate that the bathroom was used inappropriately and completely out of line with an 
express agreement made. But I remain of the view that bathrooms are designed to be cleaned. And Ive not seen any evidence that makes me think residue of carcinogenic 
materials would not respond to or be made safe by cleaning. I remain of the view that AXAs 
payment of £1,000 was a fair and reasonable remedy for this issue.
 
Carpets
It isnt unusual for insurers to pay monies in relation to their liability for loss to policyholders, 
for policyholders to use in whatever way they see fit. It is entirely reasonable for AXA to pay 
for cleaning carpets, and for Mr A to decide not to clean them and instead to put the money 
paid for cleaning towards the cost of their replacement. I see no good reason here why AXA 
shouldnt have to settle with Mr A for what it is reasonably liable for  the cost of cleaning the 
carpets. 
I, of course, appreciate that the carpets couldnt actually be cleaned because they were 
removed. And I thank Mr A for again providing details about how he recalls that removal took 
place, along with the discussion that occurred with the IE. But as I noted provisionally the IE 
has a different recollection. And the only written detail Ive seen from around that time that 
helps me determine which recollection is most likely accurate is the email I referenced 
provisionally. Im satisfied by what Ive said in this respect.
Windows
I can understand why AXA would think that most people would likely realise that challenging 
the claim outcome such that it was reviewed by an independent engineer would mean that 
the whole claim is reviewed. But, to be fair, AXA is viewing this from the position of being an 
insurance expert. I dont think every reasonable person would understands that. And, from 
the claim and complaint details Ive seen, including Mr As response to my provisional 
findings, I accept that Mr A clearly did not understand that. Im satisfied that AXA didnt make 
that clear to him and he was caused frustration because his expectations werent managed 
successfully. For that loss of expectation, Im satisfied that £250 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due.
But AXA not having explained things doesnt mean it was unfair of its position on the claim to 
change. And AXA did not just change its position without good cause  the position changed 
because its settlement was challenged and that resulted in the IEs appointment. 
In this case, the main question about the windows (including the French doors) was whether 
they had been damaged by this episode of subsidence and/or the works AXA completed. In 
terms of answering those issues Im satisfied that AXA appointed a suitably qualified expert. 
Im also satisfied that the expert, not having compared the undamaged windows, did not 
detrimentally affect the accuracy or persuasiveness of his report. And whilst previous 
attempted repairs have failed that doesnt mean that the issues AXA is liable for simply cant 
be repaired. Im satisfied that it is the other damage, which AXA isnt liable for, which means 
that replacement is the only option. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that AXAs offer to 
settle for the cost of window repairs was fair and reasonable. 
AXA did not make an individual payment to Mr A in the sum of £310, or even £372. So I can 
understand why Mr A believes he hasnt received this. But it was a sum incorporated within 
the larger claim settlement of £35,725.20 paid in October 2021.
Reinstatement settlement
I appreciate that Mr A obtained a quote because he was asked to. I accept that the IE and 
Mr As contractor discussed work starting and preparations were made. But the IE, in my 
view, was clear that this was all pending authorisation being received from AXA, albeit authorisation the IE expected to get but which, of course, never came. Our Investigator, in 
March this year, did send Mr A a copy of the reworked quote the IE put together. Im 
satisfied that he was able to use his experience and knowledge to reasonably assess the 
scope  in terms of both work stated and the related costs  and state what AXA, in his view, 
was fairly liable for here. I appreciate that Mr A thinks AXA should have looked at this 
pragmatically; authorising the work and, thereby, saving the additional AA cost paid. But, as 
I said provisionally, it wasnt unusual, or unreasonable, for AXA to want to pay for what it 
was liable for, rather than make a trade.  
Interest
Mr A was clearly unhappy about the settlement proposals AXA was putting forwards. And 
I think it is fair to say he clearly intended to dispute them. But this service is satisfied that 
once an insurer knows, in its own mind so to speak, the extent of its liability, payment in line 
with that, should be made to the policyholder. It is not fair for the insurer to keep hold of 
those funds. The insurer can manage the situation with the policyholder by explaining that 
the payment doesnt affect their right to dispute the amount and make a complaint if they 
wish. But those funds, reasonably owed to the policyholder, should be paid to them. If they 
arent this service will usually require the insurer to pay interest. That is what I have done 
here and Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable for me to do so.
Delay and poor communication
These are all issues about how the claim was handled. And any assessment of them goes 
towards what compensation might be payable. As I said provisionally, and noted again at the 
start of these findings, compensation, along with the issues relevant to an assessment of 
that form of redress, will not be considered as part of this decision. 
Policy
Most prospective policyholders take out insurance for the purpose of limiting their loss when 
an incident giving rise to a claim occurs. Mr A is no different in that respect. And, due to the 
nature of the complaint points  none of which turn on an assessment of what the policy 
allows or doesnt allow for, the specifics of his policy terms havent really impacted the 
findings Ive made here.
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mr A:
£750, plus interest* from 15 October 2021 until settlement is made, in respect of the 
carpets.
£250 compensation for his loss of expectation regarding the windows and doors.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the outstanding £528 window repair cost, from 
6 April 2022 until settlement is made.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the initial final settlement sum of £35,725.20 from 
15 October 2021 until settlement was made.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the additional settlement sum of £650 from the date 
this was offered until settlement was made.An amount equivalent to interest* on the experts costs of £1,020 and £210 from 
20 January 2020 until settlement for each was made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman