DRN-2451683
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Highway Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy. She wants it to increase its valuation of her car.
What happened
Miss Ds car was damaged in an incident and she made a claim. It took a few months for the 
other insurer to accept liability. Highway assessed Miss Ds car and said it was beyond 
economical repair. It offered her £2,000 as its pre-incident market value. But Miss D thought 
the car was worth about £2,400. She said shed spent money maintaining it, it had low 
mileage and was in good condition. Miss D wanted to keep the salvage, so Highway said it 
would charge her £400 for this. Miss D said shed been caused stress by the claim process.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Highway had handled the claim fairly and reasonably, so he didnt think it was responsible 
for Miss Ds stress. He thought its deduction for the salvage value was fair. But he thought it 
hadnt valued Miss Ds car correctly. He thought it should increase its offer to £2,073.
Highway responded that its settlement offer was within the range of the valuations the 
investigator had found. So it didnt think it needed to increase it. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss D 
and to Highway on 23 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
Miss D said the claim process caused her stress and anxiety. So I looked to see whether 
Highways handling of the claim had led to this. I could see that it took about two months for 
the other insurer to agree to accept liability. Highway then had its engineer assess Miss Ds 
car and it made its settlement offer. 
From what I could see, I thought Highway responded reasonably and promptly to Miss Ds 
communications. And I thought it didnt cause any avoidable delays in the claim. So, whilst I 
understood Miss Ds feelings, I couldnt say that Highway caused them. I thought dealing 
with any claim would be a stressful experience. 
Miss D wanted to retain the cars salvage. Our investigator thought that Highways deduction 
from the settlement offer for the scrap was fair and reasonable. I thought £400 was a 
reasonable deduction compared to the cars market value. Highway would lose this amount 
if Miss D retained the salvage. So I couldnt say it was unfair or unreasonable for Highway to 
charge this. 
I could see that Highway assessed Miss Ds car and found it to be beyond economical 
repair. I thought this was fair and reasonable as the cost of the repairs exceeded the value of 
the car. 
Highway offered Miss D £2,000 as the market value of her car. Miss D said she would 
accept £2,400. The investigator explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont 
provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Highway said its engineer assessed the car taking into account one of the guides we use. 
But our approach is to look for valuations in the four guides we use and then consider what 
is fair and reasonable. I could see that the investigator found valuations of cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Miss Ds in three guides. He discounted one 
valuation as it was out of step with the others. I thought that was correct according to our 
approach. 
The investigator then found the average provided by the other two guides. This was £2,073 
and so he thought Highway should increase its offer by £73. But I disagreed. This was 
because I thought Highways offer was in line with the range of the valuations found in the 
two guides. And we wouldnt usually consider a difference of less than £100 to be significant. 
Miss D had provided evidence of work shes had done to her car. But we consider this to be 
maintenance to keep the car roadworthy and so this wouldnt increase its valuation.
Subject to any further representations by Miss D or Highway, my provisional decision was 
that I thought Highways settlement offer was fair and reasonable and I didnt think it needed 
to increase this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss D nor Highway had any further comments to make. So I can see no reason to 
change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman