DRN-1463677
The complaint
Miss K complains about the amount of time it took Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance PLC 
(RSA) to arrange the satisfactory repair of her vehicle. 
What happened
Miss K was involved in an accident in August 2018 and says mistakes by RSA meant it took 
until October 2019 for her vehicle to be repaired to her satisfaction. She says she had to 
spend time chasing RSA and the garages involved, and that shed been forced to extend the 
lease on her vehicle for a further year because the repairs werent completed before it 
expired in October 2018. RSA upheld the complaint and offered Miss K £700 for the delay 
and poor service. RSA didnt accept it was responsible for the addition lease costs, but 
accepted it had provided Miss K with misinformation on this issue. Miss K wants £2,000 
compensation from RSA. 
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He accepted Miss K had received 
poor service from RSA. But he felt the £700 RSA had offered was reasonable and in line 
with what wed expect to see in similar cases. He also felt some of the delays were outside 
of RSAs control and he didnt accept it was liable for the extra years lease costs. 
Miss K has asked for an Ombudsman review. She didnt think the investigator took full 
account of all the issues causing the delay, particularly around the information RSA gave her 
about extending the lease on her vehicle for another year. Miss K also felt staff at RSA had 
spoken to her rudely.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss K feels strongly about this complaint, and I fully appreciate why 
she thinks the service she received from RSA was not what she expected. And so, I 
understand my decision will come as a disappointment to her. But Ill explain why Im not 
upholding her complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. I should add here that Ive not made a finding on Miss Ks point around 
RSA staff speaking to her rudely, as this didnt form part of her original complaint to our 
service. 
RSA accepts it made mistakes which contributed to it taking over a year for Miss Ks vehicle 
to be fully repaired. Some of that delay was beyond RSAs control  such as the availability 
of parts. But I do accept that if RSA had repaired Miss Ks car adequately in the first place, 
the further quotes and reports, and subsequent delays associated with that, couldve been avoided. That said, I have to look at what RSA has done to put things right and consider 
whether thats fair and reasonable. Thats not just from a financial compensation point of 
view, but also the action RSA took to resolve the matter for Miss K without the need for 
further delay. 
I can see that during the repair process, RSA provided Miss K with a courtesy car when 
needed. And when RSA agreed to consider alternative quotes from Miss K, it was proactive 
in following those up and in its consideration of whether the quotes were overinflated. RSAs 
actions here seem fair to me. And despite its failure to carry out the work to the required 
standard in the first place, RSA was within its rights to satisfy itself that subsequent quotes 
provided by Miss K werent overinflated or unreasonable.
I can also see that whilst trying to resolve this case for Miss K, RSA agreed to oversee the 
matter until the repairs were fully completed, and to pick up the cost of any repairs that might 
be identified when the vehicle was returned to the lease company. RSA also agreed to a late 
request from Miss K to have her vehicle repaired by a different garage and had the parts 
delivered to that garage to avoid any further delay. This all seems reasonable to me. 
I can see RSAs offer to Miss K of £700 takes account of the poor service she received. And 
that includes delays in receiving a report from an independent motor engineer, and the mis-
advice she was given about RSA covering the cost of the extended lease. All of which I fully 
accept wouldve added to Miss Ks frustration. 
Of particular concern to Miss K is the cost she incurred in having to extend the lease on her 
vehicle for another year. RSA has said Miss K wasnt precluded from returning the vehicle 
unrepaired at any time, as any costs she incurred from the lease company couldve been 
passed onto RSA.  RSA has also pointed that Miss K had the benefit of the car for another 
year, as the damage didnt render it un-driveable.  I can understand the points being made 
by RSA here.
And Id add here that even if RSA had repaired Miss Ks car as it shouldve done back in
August 2018, because of the four month delay in getting the customised part, I cant say with 
absolute certainty that all repairs wouldve been completed by the time Miss Ks lease 
expired in October 2018 - even if the part had been sourced from elsewhere. So, I cant 
agree that poor service by RSA directly resulted in the costs Miss K incurred in extending the 
lease on her car for a further year.   
Taking everything into account, I believe the action RSA took to try and resolve matters was 
reasonable and the £700 its offered to Miss K is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset she 
suffered because of RSAs delays and poor service. That offer is also in line with what Id 
expect to see in similar cases.  So, I wont be asking RSA to take any further action. If        
Miss K hasnt accepted RSAs offer and now wishes to do so, then she should contact them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman