DRN-1699179
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited set up his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a multi-car policy with Admiral. In 2014 Mr H added another car to it.  He 
only discovered about five years later that he was not insured to drive it under that policy. 
He felt that this had exposed him to a very serious situation if he had been involved in an 
accident or stopped by the police. 
Admiral offered him compensation, but he felt that it wasnt enough and didnt take into 
account the potential consequences for him. He wanted them to refund all the premiums 
paid on the policy for that car, because Admiral had not provided the insurance he thought 
he was buying.
Admiral said that when he added the car in 2014 he said that his wife would be the sole 
driver. However they accepted that in 2016 he had mentioned to their agent that he drove 
the car occasionally, and that the agent hadnt clarified that he was not listed as a driver and 
ask if he would like to be added. They apologised and said it they provide feedback to 
prevent it happening again. However they said that the policy documents made it clear that 
he was not insured for that car. And they wouldnt refund his premiums as they had insured 
his wife over that period, and there was no actual loss. 
 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They explained that 
we could only look at what had happened, and so they thought that Admiral had dealt with 
his complaint fairly and that the compensation was adequate. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral said that he had to be policyholder or named driver to be insured. But he said he 
thought that, because he was the policy administrator, that he was insured for any car on the 
policy. He said that he didnt know the difference between a policy administrator and a 
policyholder. He also felt that the way Admiral asked some of their questions were confusing 
and that they were hiding behind jargon. He wanted them to accept responsibility for him 
driving illegally.
 
Admiral said that when he first added the car to the policy in 2014, he said his wife was 
going to be the sole driver. Mr H hasnt disputed this. But he said that hed spoken to Admiral 
multiple times over the years when renewing insurance and adding and removing other cars. 
He said that in 2016 he told Admirals agent that he drove the car occasionally, but the agent 
didnt tell him that he was not insured. He felt that if the agent had picked up on this the 
mistake could have been rectified then. 
I see that after Mr H added the car to the policy in 2014 Admiral sent him the policy 
documents. They said the documents enclosed should be forwarded to the policyholder (s) 
so that all details can be checked. If any details are in correct, please call us immediately. 
These included the certificate of motor insurance. That certificate has only Mrs Hs name on 
it as policyholder and Mr H is not mentioned. It says at the top that it is evidence of who has 
insurance to comply with the law, and it should be read it in conjunction with the guide to 
cover and the policy schedule. It also says, If you do not inform Admiral of any changes you 
may not have the protection of the policy. 
Mr H said that he did not read all the pages of the policy, just the summary. But we expect 
consumers to check their documents. I think that it was clear from the policy insurance 
certificate that Mr H was not named on the policy then and so he was not insured.
And even if Admirals agent didnt pick up on Mr Hs comments during a call in 2016, I dont 
think thats enough to hold them to blame for him driving without insurance after that. 
Admiral sent him the certificate of insurance for that policy year and subsequent policy 
years, until 2019. They all state Mrs H only as the policyholder and the only person entitled 
to drive. 
This contrasts with another car on their multicar policy, the certificates for which show that 
Mr H is the policyholder, but Mrs H is also on the policy, so both are insured and entitled to 
drive. So I think it should have been clear to Mr H that for him to be insured for a car on the 
policy he should be named on the certificate. If by mistake he was not, that was clear from 
the certificates from 2014 onwards.
 
Mr H was clearly shocked to find out that he had been driving without insurance, and I can 
see that both he and Mrs H are distressed about the impact this could have had. I think 
thats understandable. Clearly driving without valid motor insurance is illegal and the 
penalties for this are severe and could have had potentially serious consequences. Mr H 
wants Admiral to accept responsibility for him driving illegally without insurance. But though 
Admiral accepts some failings and have offered him £100 compensation, they wont 
compensate him further. 
I dont think thats unfair of them, because for the reasons above I dont think it was 
Admirals fault that he was driving without insurance. And so when looking at the impact the 
situation had on Mr and Mrs H, although I see that they are both genuinely upset at what 
could have happened, this service can only look at what did happen. Mr H didnt in fact 
suffer the impact that he claimed was possible, and we wouldnt expect an insurer to 
compensate for any event that might have happened but didnt. And so, in all the 
circumstances, I think the compensation that Admiral have offered is fair and so I dont 
intend to require them to take any other action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.. 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
