 Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to cover a 
credit card in 2003. Mr O says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclays had to make it clear to Mr O that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr O says he only took the PPI because he was told his application for the credit card 
was less likely to be approved if he didnt take the PPI.
Barclays records show that Mr Os credit card was opened in 1998 and that the PPI wasnt 
sold until 2003. So, as the credit card had been open for nearly five years, I dont think Mr O 
can reasonably have thought he had to have the PPI to get the credit card.
Both Mr O and Barclays have said the PPI was sold over the phone. And Barclays has sent 
us copies of the sales scripts it says wouldve been used in calls like this at the time. These 
show that the advisor wouldve been instructed to make it clear that the PPI was optional.
Based on the evidence I have, and what I understand about its sales practices at the time, I 
think its likely that Barclays did make it clear to Mr O that he had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mr O chose to take the PPI.
Mr O also said he felt pressured into taking the PPI. But, apart from what I mentioned above, 
he hasnt given us much detail about why he felt this. This is understandable given how long 
ago the sale was. But I dont think theres enough evidence here for me to say that Barclays 
unfairly pressured Mr O into taking the PPI.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr O, so it had to check that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
Mr O doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to 
full sick pay. And it wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy pay he was entitled to.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclays had to give Mr O clear information about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, for 
the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful 
DRN-1054870for Mr O if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr O off taking it out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman