DRN-1442760
 
The complaint
Ms C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Ms C filled in an application form to take out an unsecured personal loan with Nationwide in 
2000 and bought a PPI policy at the same time. 
The cost of the PPI got added onto Ms Cs loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single 
premium policy. It covered Ms Cs loan payments for up to 12 months if she lost her job and 
for up to four years if she was off work sick.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Cs complaint didnt uphold it. Ms C disagrees and so her 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Ms C she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement 
to it. I think Nationwide did this. Thats because I have a copy of what Nationwide calls a 
reconstituted application form Ms C filled in and I can see it included a section that gave 
Ms C a choice about whether or not to take out PPI. Shes ticked to say yes to it  and she 
couldve ticked no if she hadnt wanted it. Ive also looked at a copy of the loan agreement 
Ms C signed before the loan was advanced and can see this describes the PPI as optional 
and shows the separate costs for it.
Nationwide and Ms C agree it didnt recommend the PPI to her. So Nationwide didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But Nationwide did have to make sure Ms C had enough 
information to make that decision herself in an informed way. 
I dont know what information Ms C was given about the costs of the PPI at the outset. But I 
can see the cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement Ms C signed before the 
loan was advanced  including the amount of the premium, the interest payable on the 
premium and the total cost. So I think Ms C wouldve understood how much the PPI would 
cost if she kept the policy for the full loan term. 
Ms C says shed have got very good sick pay from her work and had a pension. But if Ms C 
made a successful sickness or accident claim, the PPI wouldve paid her monthly loan 
repayments until she returned to work or, if sooner, until the loan was repaid. And it wouldve 
paid her monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months per claim if shed lost her job. Ms Cs pension  which I believe she wasnt drawing at the time  wouldnt have helped her in this 
way.
Not all PPI policies gave a proportionate refund of the PPI premium if a loan was settled 
early and a policy cancelled. But the policy Ms C bought did, meaning she got a 
proportionate refund of her premium when she repaid the loan and cancelled the policy 
early. So I dont think more information about the policys cancellation terms wouldve made 
a difference to her decision to go ahead with it.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But, from 
what Ms C says of her circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got. I think its 
unlikely she wouldve been affected by any of these things.
Ive looked at all the other points Ms C and her representatives have made but they dont 
change my conclusions in this case. All in all, I dont think Ms C lost out because of anything 
Nationwide did wrong and so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
 My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I don't uphold Ms C's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman