DRN-2324262
The complaint
Mr O complains that he was mis-sold an interest only mortgage by Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Birmingham Midshires.
What happened
Mr O complains that in around 2003 he was mis-sold an interest only mortgage and it wasnt 
suitable for him because:-
the adviser failed to ensure the mortgage was suitable;
the adviser failed to establish his attitude to risk;
no fact find was completed and the adviser didnt have full knowledge of his financial 
situation;
other options for repaying his mortgage were not discussed with him;
the adviser didnt give him the costs of a repayment mortgage;
no affordability assessment was carried out to check the mortgage was affordable for 
him; and
the adviser didnt check if he had a repayment vehicle.
Mr O also obtained a secured personal loan from BoS in June 2003. My understanding is 
that Mr O makes no complaint about the secured personal loan. Therefore this decision only 
relates to Mr Os complaint about the mis-sale of his mortgage.
Mr O also complains that BoS said it wouldnt log a complaint for him about the mis-sale of 
the mortgage and he also says that BoS gave him conflicting information about whether his 
mortgage was regulated or unregulated.
Mr O brought his complaint to BoS through our service in June 2019. BoS issued its final 
response letter in July 2019. It said it was unable to investigate Mr Os complaint because 
his mortgage was sold by a broker and therefore the broker  and not BoS - was 
responsible for the advice and recommendation of the mortgage. BoS agreed it had 
incorrectly said it wouldnt log a complaint for him and it paid him £150 for any trouble and 
upset caused. It also confirmed that Mr Os mortgage was unregulated at the time of the 
sale.
When our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint he said we couldnt consider the 
complaint because it had been brought too late. Our investigator thought the compensation 
paid by BoS for the incorrect information it had given was fair and reasonable. Mr O 
disagrees with the investigators view and hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale of the mortgage 
Our service isnt able to investigate all of the complaints brought to us. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service operates under a set of rules known as the DISP rules and these 
include time limits on bringing complaints to our service. We cannot consider a complaint if 
it is referred to our service more than:
Six years from the date of the event complained of; or, if later,
Three years from the date the complainant became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, of cause for complaint.
If a complaint is made after the time limit has expired, we cant consider it, unless:
Theres a written acknowledgement or some other evidence of an earlier 
complaint, made in time;
The business complained about agrees we can look at it (which BoS hasnt done 
here, as is its right); or
There are exceptional circumstances that explain why the complaint couldnt 
have been made in time.
Mr Os complaint is that the mortgage was mis-sold and was unsuitable for him for a 
number of reasons. Some of the issues he complains about are the responsibility of the 
broker who gave the advice to him. I can only consider BoSs position in this decision.
Even though it looks like the broker advised on the mortgage and introduced Mr O to 
BoS, I could potentially consider a complaint that BoS lent to him irresponsibly, but only 
if the complaint is one we are able to consider under our rules. I agree with the 
investigator that we cant consider Mr Os complaint about the mis-sale of his mortgage, 
so Ill explain why.
Part of Mr Os complaint is that BoS didnt do any checks to ensure the mortgage was 
affordable and he may have committed himself to a mortgage he couldnt afford. The event 
complained about here is BoSs decision to approve Mr Os mortgage. I dont know the exact 
date on which BoS made its decision to approve Mr Os mortgage, but this would have been 
around the time BoS issued its mortgage offer to Mr O.
Ive been provided with a copy of BoSs mortgage offer to Mr O dated December 2002 and 
the mortgage completed in January 2003. Mr O didnt complain about the mis-sale of his 
mortgage until June 2019 so Im satisfied that he didnt complain to BoS within six years of 
BoSs lending decision or the completion of the mortgage.
Ive seen that when Mr O brought his complaint to BoS he detailed his complaint points by 
including a letter dated 2016. Having looked at the letter theres nothing to suggest Mr O had 
previously complained to BoS in 2016. I say this because although the letter isnt addressed 
to an addressee, the address details correspond to that of the broker who advised on Mr Bs 
mortgage.
Even if Mr O had first complained to BoS in November 2016, Im satisfied that his complaint 
would still not have been within six years of BoSs lending decision or his mortgage 
completing.
So this complaint turns on the application of the three year time limit. Did Mr O complain 
within three years of the date on which he was aware or ought reasonably to have become 
aware he had cause for complaint?
Part of Mr Os complaint is that no affordability checks were carried out and that he may 
have over committed himself to a mortgage he couldnt afford. The mortgage offer was made to Mr O in December 2002. Ive also been provided with a copy of Mr Os payment 
history which shows that by February 2005 his mortgage was in arrears. It appears that the 
arrears continued throughout much of the mortgage.
The mortgage being in arrears suggests to me that Mr O was having financial difficulties 
making his mortgage repayments and I think he ought reasonably to have been aware by 
the end of 2005 about his concerns that the mortgage might not have been affordable for 
him and that he had cause for complaint about it. This means that under the three year part 
of the rule, Mr O would have needed to have complained to BoS or to our service before 
the end of 2008.
As the three year time limit doesnt give Mr O any longer to have brought his complaint to 
our service, this means Mr O would need to have brought his complaint to BoS or to our 
service before January 2009. As he didnt make his complaint until 2019 Im satisfied his 
complaint is out of time and this means that our service is unable to consider Mr Os 
complaint.
Incorrect information
This part of Mr Os complaint has been brought within the required time limits and BoS 
investigated Mr Os complaint. It agreed it had given incorrect information to Mr O when it 
said it wouldnt log a complaint for him and it paid £150 compensation to him for the trouble 
and upset caused.
BoS has admitted it got things wrong so the only issue I have to decide is whether the 
things it has done to put matters right, including the amount of compensation offered, is fair 
and reasonable.
Its important to explain that as a service our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers and not to punish financial businesses. We look at the impact any mistake has 
had on the consumer concerned and give careful consideration to a consumers individual 
circumstances in determining whether any award for distress and inconvenience is 
warranted.
I think BoS recognised the impact of giving incorrect information to Mr O which is reflected 
in the £150 compensation it paid to him. I say this because, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, by the time Mr O complained to BoS his complaint was already out of time so I cant 
say that Mr O was materially disadvantaged by the incorrect information given.
BoS has already paid £150 to Mr O to settle this complaint which I think is fair and 
reasonable and Im not going to ask BoS to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that the £150 compensation already paid by Bank of Scotland plc is fair and I 
make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman