DRN-2868907
The complaint
Ms O complains Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General (Fairmead) has 
unfairly declined a claim shes made on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Ms O is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. References I make to her 
actions include those of her representative.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively documented by our investigator so Ive only included a summary here.
In July 2019 Ms O contacted Fairmead to make a claim on her policy as she 
suspected her property was experiencing subsidence
Fairmead appointed an agent to investigate and validate the claim and following an 
inspection, its surveyor concluded there was no evidence of active subsidence 
He explained the cause of the damage was natural deterioration of the building due 
to age and the nature of its construction together with typical building movements 
and this wasnt covered by the policy
So, the claim was declined but Fairmead said if Ms O arranged her own professional 
inspection, which showed different results, it would reconsider the claim
Ms O complained and mentioned various aspects of damage to the property  
including a leaking sewer - which she said were connected to the main problem 
which she still believed to be subsidence
But she didnt provide any opinion from a professional to back up this view and the 
claim remained declined
Our investigator was persuaded by the engineers view that the damage was not 
caused by active subsidence. 
Ms O asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an ombudsman is to say how complaints should be resolved quickly and with 
minimal formality and that means I will focus on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. So, while Ive considered everything the parties have said, Ill only comment on 
those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. In this case, that decision is 
whether theres active subsidence thats covered by the policy
Ms Os policy provides cover for a number of risks that might affect a property, including 
subsidence. This is the section of the policy the claim has been considered under. When 
claiming on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show the damage being 
claimed for is covered by the policy. And when an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion to 
decline a claim, the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. 
This will likely require the parties to provide evidence and professional opinions to support 
their particular views. Ill be considering this when looking at this complaint, while keeping in 
mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Fairmeads expert opinion
Fairmeads surveyor concluded the damage seen was caused by a combination of age and 
construction-related deterioration together with typical building movements but saw no 
evidence of current active subsidence damage to the building.
I acknowledge Ms O disagrees with the conclusions reached by Fairmeads expert but she 
hasnt obtained her own professional opinion which supports her position that subsidence is 
the cause. I note Fairmeads expert was suitably qualified and had twenty years experience 
of undertaking building inspections and in the absence of any conflicting evidence to take 
account of, Im persuaded by his findings.
Im satisfied Fairmead has acted fairly in relying on its experts opinion the damage hasnt 
been caused by current active subsidence and isnt covered by the policy. It follows I think 
its acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Other issues
Ms O has listed a number of areas of damage in the property including  but not limited to  
a collapsed ceiling in the kitchen, cracks in various locations and problems closing windows. 
She also mentions a blocked drain which she says is the source of the problem, which she 
still believes to be subsidence.
While I acknowledge what Ms O says about the damage to the property, as Ive explained 
above, theres no evidence of a current active subsidence so Im not persuaded by her view 
it is the root cause of the damage.
I note from the file, any escape of water from the blocked drain - and possible accidental 
damage claim in connection with this  would be considered under another claim so Ill make 
no further comments on that in this decision.
I also note Ms O says the weather has played a part in the damage. But Ive not seen 
enough evidence to suggest any damage might be covered under the storm damage section 
of the policy.
Conclusion
For the reasons Ive explained I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Ms O may wish to reconsider instructing her own professional opinion on the cause of the 
damage. Fairmead has already confirmed if this report shows the cause of the problems is 
subsidence, it will reimburse the cost of obtaining it and will reconsider the claim. Ill leave it 
up to Ms O whether she decides to do this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman