DRN-3223371
The complaint
Mr H has complained about delays he experience when accessing his pension benefits 
through Phoenix Life Limited. He says the delay meant that his fund value decreased and he 
would like Phoenix to cover the shortfall. 
What happened
Mr H held a with-profits Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) with Phoenix. It was set up in 
October 1986. The RAC contained guaranteed annuity rates and was set up with a 
retirement date of 6 August 2025.
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and involves a number of 
telephone calls and letters. So I dont intend to set out the history in full here. Instead, Ive 
summarised the key points. 
In May 2020, Mr H contact Phoenix and requested a valuation of his plan. This was sent out 
by post and Mr H received this within a few days. Then on 1 June 2020, Mr H called Phoenix 
again. He explained that hed previously called in May to request a transfer value as hed 
been considering transferring his plan to another provider. However, when he received the 
valuation, it had included a quotation for a guaranteed income. Mr H said that he been 
surprised by how much he could receive. And he asked if it was possible to mix and match 
the annuity, so take it with a 10 year guaranteed rather than 5 years, which is what had been 
included with the transfer valuation.
The call handler said that it was possible to change the annuity basis to suit what Mr H 
wanted and she explained that the first step was to send out an information pack. She also 
explained that Mr H wouldnt be tied to anything; it was just an information pack and it didnt 
include any forms. She asked Mr H if hed like her to arrange for the pack to be sent out and 
he confirmed that he would. Mr H asked whether the pack would have quotations based on 
his actual fund value or just generic examples. The call handler explained that it would 
contain details of all of the options available to Mr H and it would also include annuity 
quotation based on his actual fund value. She also said that the pack would take about five 
working days to be issued and Mr H should allow a couple more days for postage. 
Unfortunately there was a delay in the pack being issued and Mr H had to call Phoenix again 
to chase this. And after it was received, it didnt contain the quotations he was expecting so 
he called Phoenix again. At this point he was told that he would need to run through a 
number of questions over the phone before the specific quotations he had requested could 
be issued. However, due to certain medical information disclosed during the call, Phoenix 
needed Mr H to complete a further medical questionnaire before the requested quotations 
could be issued.  It wasnt until 16 July that Phoenix issued the personalised quotations, by 
which time Mr Hs fund value had reduced due to the final bonus having been revalued on 
1 July. 
There were a number of further calls between Mr H and Phoenix in July. Mr H confirmed 
which personalised quotation he wanted to proceed with on 24 July and the Retirement 
Application pack was issued on 29 July and again on 7 August. Phoenix received its 
requirements to settle Mr Hs benefits on 12 August and the annuity was set up on 25 
August. 
Mr H made a formal complaint to Phoenix about the delays experienced and the fact that the 
process wasnt completed before the bonus was revalued on 1 July. And he raised concerns 
about the process he had to go through given the type of annuity he had and how valuable 
the GAR was. In addition, he said that Phoenix had failed to follow the FCA directives, 
issued in March and April 2020 encouraging firms to deal consumers via email during the 
pandemic. And at times he had been given incorrect information, including being told his 
fund value had increased in July 2020 during a telephone call. 
Phoenix reviewed the complaint and while it acknowledged that it had caused some delays, 
it said that it hadnt found evidence that it could have processed Mr Hs retirement request 
before the final bonus was revalued on 1 July 2020. It also apologised that at times Mr H 
was provided with incorrect information and in recognition of the trouble and upset caused, it 
said it was arranging for a £250 cheque to be issued. 
Mr H was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint so he referred the matter to our service 
for consideration.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and while he agreed delays had been 
caused, he didnt think it would have been possible for Mr H to have accessed his pension 
benefits before the final bonus was revalued on 1 July. And he thought the £250 
compensation that Phoenix had offered was fair. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary he said that: 
The investigator had been wrong to say that it wasnt until 1 June 2020 that he 
started the process of trying to access his pension benefits. He actually called 
Phoenix on 1 May 2020. 
It was an irritation having to complete a medical questionnaire in writing having 
already done one over the phone. 
Phoenixs refusal to issue documents by email delayed matters and went against the 
FCAs guidance given to firms at the start of the pandemic.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached 
and for mostly the same reasons. 
I can see that when Mr H referred his complaint to this service he provided very detailed 
submissions. However, Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome.Ive firstly considered when Mr H started the process to taking his benefits. So, whether 
Phoenix should have issued an information pack, rather than a valuation, following Mr Hs 
call on 1 May. 
I know Mr H has previously said that the calls on 1 May and 1 June were similar and so if the 
call in June was enough for the information pack to be issued, then it should have been 
issued after the call he had with Phoenix in May. 
Ive listened to both the May and June telephone calls. In May Mr H was very specific in his 
request for a fund value and transfer valuation. And other than this he didnt ask any 
questions about the plan or the benefits it provided. So I dont think it was unreasonable that 
the call handler didnt pick up on Mr H wanting to start the process of taking his benefits 
during this call. However, in June, Mr H asked further questions around the annuity the plan 
could provide and I think it was clear during this call that Mr H wanted to start the process of 
taking his benefits. 
Its unfortunate the call handler didnt manage Mr Hs expectations during this call by 
explaining the process he would have to go through in order to set up the annuity and that 
although he had requested a specific quotation, this wouldnt be issue until after he had 
received details of his retirement options and completed a medical questionnaire.  If this had 
been explained at this point, Mr H would have known what to expect going forward.
Ive gone on to think about whether, if everything had gone as it should have, Phoenix would 
have been in a position to process Mr Hs retirement request before the final bonus was 
revalued on 1 July 2020. And having thought about this carefully, even if no delays had 
occurred, I dont think the process could have concluded before this date. Ill explain why. 
During the call on 1 June, Mr H was told an information pack would be issued within 5 
working days. Before the information pack was received Mr H received a letter dated 10 
June 2020. This was a standard letter that was issued because Mr H was five years from his 
selected retirement age in 2025. It wasnt issued as a result of Mr Hs contact with Phoenix 
at the start of June. Its my understanding that this letter would have been issued regardless 
of whether Mr H had called Phoenix in May or June.  It was issued as a prompt to Mr H to 
review whether his pension was on track and it set out his choices at retirement. 
However, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a delay in this information pack 
being issued. It wasnt sent until 16 June and that appears to have been as a result of Mr H 
chasing the matter up. I think if there hadnt been a delay, its possible Mr H could have 
received this pack around 10 June. So I think he could have spoken to Phoenix to complete 
the medical questionnaire over the phone around 12 June. I know Mr H is frustrated that 
despite answering questions over the phone, he was still required to complete a medical 
questionnaire.  I can see this was because of some of the information that was disclosed 
during the call. I appreciate this was frustrating, particularly as again, the process wasnt 
correctly explained to Mr H. But I cant say that Phoenix made a mistake in issuing this 
questionnaire. This additional information was needed in order to assess whether Mr H was 
entitled to an enhanced annuity. 
I therefore think its reasonable to suggest that, without any delays, Mr H ought to have 
received the medical questionnaire around 17 June.  
I can see that Mr H returned this questionnaire the same day Phoenix confirmed that it 
hadnt been issued in error and was in fact required before the quotations could be issued.  
So I think its likely that, had no delays occurred, Phoenix would have received this a few 
working days later. So taking account of the weekend, I dont think Phoenix would have been 
in a position to review this information until the start of the following week at the earliest. This would have left it less than 8 working days to review the medical information, compare its 
annuity with what could be obtained on the open market, issue personalised quotations and 
for Mr H to confirm the annuity he required and for Phoenix to receive the necessary 
paperwork. Im not satisfied there was sufficient time for these steps to be completed prior to 
the 1 July. 
I do appreciate Mr H believes he was made to go through a needless process when he was 
opting to take the annuity, and he says Phoenix should have known it couldnt be beaten on 
the open market. However, the FCA has set guidance for firms to follow to ensure that 
consumers are obtaining the best annuities available. This guidance was set after the FCA 
carried out a review and discovered that many consumers were missing out on a higher 
income because they were opting to take annuities with their existing pension providers. 
So I think it was important for Phoenix to check that its GAR would provide Mr H with the 
best possible income in retirement, rather than simply making an assumption that this would 
be the case, particular as annuity providers frequently change annuity rates.   
Mr H says that he had already completed his own investigation and was aware that the GAR 
couldnt be beaten on the open market. But I still think Phoenix was entitled (and required) to 
complete its own checks on this to ensure its GAR couldnt be beaten.
I have also thought about whether, given the FCAs Dear CEO letter dated 31 March 2020, 
Phoenix should have altered its standard process and - instead of issuing the necessary 
paperwork by post  whether it should have emailed the relevant questionnaires, forms and 
quotations to Mr H. 
I do accept that this would have expedited matters. But I dont think Phoenix was required to 
change the way it communicated with Mr H. The FCA expected firms to provide strong 
support and services to consumers during the pandemic. The CEO letter does specifically 
say that, when verifying a consumers identity, a firm can accept scanned documents sent by 
email. However, this wasnt an actual requirement. And this relates to verifying a consumers 
identity rather than sending quotations and forms. But I do think the same expectations 
should apply. 
Mr H was told that as his policy was old, email correspondence wasnt permitted. I 
appreciate that Mr H believes this is nonsense as there is no reference to emails in the 
policy. However, it is often the case that older style plans are held on different systems 
which can restrict the way the firms are able to communicate with plan holders.  Having said 
that, I do think it would have been possible for the letters to be generated in the usual way 
and then emailed across to Mr H. This would have reduced the delay slightly but it wouldnt 
have necessarily meant the forms would be issued as quickly as they would on a newer style 
policy, which are held on newer systems and are set up to deal with multiple communication 
methods.  
However, it wasnt until 18 June that Mr H told the call handler on the phone he was only 
receiving post every 3 or 4 days. So even if from this point Phoenix had sent the relevant 
papers by email, for the reasons Ive explained above, I still dont think that the process 
would have been completed by 1 July. There were still a number of steps that had to be 
completed, some of which individually would have taken at least few working days to 
complete. For example, assessing the medical questionnaires and checking annuity 
quotations on the open market. Then producing the quotations which can take a number of 
days to generate before these could have been emailed over to Mr H. As Ive said above, on 
these older styles plans, its not simply a case of pressing a button and an email being 
produced. So I think it was unlikely that these steps could have been completed before the 
bonus was revalued. Mr H has said that it was much quicker for him to access the benefits of plans held with other 
providers. I cant comment on the processes of other firms, all I can do is look at what 
Phoenix has done here. And having done that, although I accept there were delays. I dont 
think that the steps Mr H was taken through were unnecessary. 
I know Mr H thinks that Phoenix should make up the difference in his fund value between the 
initial retirement pack being issued and when the bonus was revalued. Or that it should 
backdate the annuity to 1 June 2020. But as I dont think the process would have completed 
before the 1 July, even if everything had gone as it should, Im not going to be asking 
Phoenix to do this. 
I do however think that the service Phoenix provided to Mr H fell short. There were delays 
and some of the call handlers failed to adequately explain the process that Mr H would need 
to go through in order to access his benefits. And Im aware that he was given incorrect 
information about his fund value. But these errors dont impact the annuity he has received. 
They have caused him inconvenience. I know Mr H was expecting far more compensation, 
including a significant payment for his time spent on this matter. But I think the £250 Phoenix 
has offered is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. So I wont be asking Phoenix to pay 
any more than this. 
To conclude, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this 
matter and I realise he will be disappointed with my decision. But Im not asking Phoenix to 
do any more than it has already offered. I dont think that even if everything had gone as it 
should, it would have been possible for Mr Hs annuity to have been set up before the bonus 
was revalued on 1 July. I do think the service provided by Phoenix could have been better 
and I therefore think the £250 its offered if fair. My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part. If its not already done so, I think 
Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman