DRN-3385830
The complaint
Mr C complained because NewDay Ltd refused to refund him for transactions which he said 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
On the morning of 7 April 2019, Mr C checked his NewDay account and saw that three 
payments, with associated non-sterling fees, had debited his NewDay card overnight. They 
were for digital content with an online company, and the total was £192.84. Mr C hadnt 
made the transactions so he rang NewDay straightaway.
NewDay stopped the card and issued another, and put temporary credits on Mr Cs account 
while it investigated. 
On 15 May NewDay raised a chargeback with the merchant. A chargeback is a process for 
resolving settlement disputes. The merchant defended the chargeback, providing Mr Cs 
name, address, email address and other details. These matched what NewDay had on Mr 
Cs records. 
NewDay refused Mr Cs fraud claim, but it didnt tell him that it had held him liable. On 2 
August it re-debited the temporary credits. This took Mr Cs account over his credit limit, so 
NewDay charged him a £12 over-limit fee. 
NewDay did notify Mr C of that fee, sending a letter headed Notice of Default sums. When 
he received this, Mr C rang to find out what was happening, and he complained to NewDay. 
He explained that he had an account with the online company but wasnt aware he had a 
specific account with the similarly named app store to which the transactions had been 
made. His account with the online company had been hacked earlier in the year, and there 
had been fraudulent transactions against both the cards hed had stored with that 
organisation  the NewDay card, and a card with another card provider. The other card 
providers systems had picked up the pending debits as fraudulent, and had blocked them 
instead of debiting Mr Cs account.
In its final response to Mr Cs complaint, NewDay said it had correctly administered Mr Cs 
account, though it removed the £12 over-limit fee. It said that the details which the merchant 
had provided about the transactions had matched the information which NewDay held about 
Mr Cs account.  
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He told our investigator that at the time 
of the transactions he lived alone, and no-one else would have had access to the electronic 
devices linked to his account with the online company. He said only his phone had been 
linked to that account, and he was sure the disputed transactions couldnt have been made 
through his phone because he always had it near him. He also told the investigator that hed 
phoned NewDay as soon as hed found out about the transactions. And although hed 
offered NewDay evidence at the time that his account had been hacked, he no longer had 
this because it had been a long time ago.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He pointed out that if Mr Cs account with the 
online company had been accessed by an unauthorised third party, that person would have 
had access to all the contact and personal details on the account  such as name, email and 
address. So the investigator didnt think the fact that the disputed transactions included this 
information was evidence that Mr C had authorised them.
And the investigator also pointed out that the geographical area identified on the 
transactions wasnt right, and the disputed transactions werent consistent with Mr Cs 
previous spend. The statements NewDay had provided to us didnt show any purchases 
from the merchant. The purchases had been for mobile games  and there was no evidence 
Mr C bought this type of purchase.
So the investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint, and recommended that NewDay should restore 
Mr Cs account to the position it would have been in, if the disputed transactions hadnt 
happened.
NewDay didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It sent another copy of the 
online organisations defence, which had said it believed the transactions had been genuine.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
In my provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions. The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in April 2019 are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
NewDay) must show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
the electronic records show the three disputed transactions were authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its then necessary to look at whether the card holder 
authorised the payments. In general terms, both under the Payment Services Regulations 
and the Consumer Credit Act, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. These payments were also 
distance contracts, as these were phone transactions, which again means that customers 
arent liable for any payments they didnt authorise.
So I carefully considered whether or not I thought it was more likely than not that Mr C 
authorised the disputed payments.
Is it likely that Mr C authorised the disputed transactions?
The statements I saw for Mr Cs account didnt show any previous transactions to the 
merchant. Nor did I see any other transactions for the purchase of mobile games. This ties in 
with Mr C telling the investigator he didnt even know he had an account with the online app 
store. 
Mr C also reported the overnight transactions promptly in the morning when he saw them. 
Its possible that someone might do this if they had authorised the transactions themselves, 
but taken with the other evidence, its helpful. Its unfortunate that Mr C no longer has evidence that his online account was hacked, but I said I did understand that the time thats 
passed makes this less likely.
The chargeback responses also list the geographical part of the country for the device used. 
But this was several hundred miles from where Mr C lived.  
I also considered the pattern of the transactions. All three were carried out in succession, 
and there was then a fourth which failed. This was most probably because Mr Cs NewDay 
balance was near the credit limit at the time of the disputed transactions. This pattern  
quickly making repeated transactions until theres a rejection  is common for fraudulent 
transactions.
NewDay relied on the online organisations defence of the chargeback, which was based on 
the fact that the transaction showed Mr Cs name, email address, and address. But I agreed 
with the investigator that any fraudster who successfully hacked Mr Cs online account would 
automatically have had access to this information. 
Its rarely possible to establish for certain what happened. So I take my decision on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened, taking into account all the circumstances of 
the case. Here, all the factors above led me to conclude that it wasnt likely that Mr C 
authorised the payments himself. 
As I considered Mr C didnt authorise the disputed transactions, I found that NewDay should 
refund Mr C for the disputed amounts, and make related amendments to his account as set 
out below. I explained that as I was being more specific than the investigators view about 
what this means in practice, I was issuing this as a provisional decision  so that both sides 
could comment on it, by the date set for responses, before a final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C didnt make any further comments.
NewDay said that it didnt accept there had been fraud, but it was willing to refund Mr C as a 
gesture of goodwill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, and taking responses into 
account, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order NewDay Ltd to : 
- refund Mr C for the disputed transactions and non-sterling transaction fees, totalling 
£192.84;
- refund any other fees, interest or charges which it has levied to Mr Cs account as a 
result of these transactions;
- correct any adverse information which it sent to Mr Cs credit file, and notify Mr C 
when this has been done, so he can check his credit file.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman