DRN-2978750
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain about QIC Europe Ltd in respect of the handling of a claim for 
water damage following a leak at their home. They want QIC to compensate them for items 
which they think were damaged by QICs contractors and for the inconvenience they 
experienced.  
What happened
In July 2019 Mr D and Mrs D noticed a leak at their home from a sewage water pipe. They 
immediately alerted their home insurer, QIC. 
Around two weeks later, a surveyor attended their home and prepared an initial scope of 
works. This included the immediately apparent work and indicated that the floors and walls 
would need to be inspected and the flooring lifted. 
At subsequent assessments it became clear that the leaking water had also damaged other 
rooms in the property, including the lounge and kitchen. It was agreed that these rooms 
would need to be stripped and cleaning and drying works undertaken. 
Mr D and Mrs D moved into alternative accommodation. 
In October 2019, QIC confirmed that work could begin but a disagreement arose between 
QIC and Mr D and Mrs D about some of the works detailed in the updated scope of works. 
Changes were made to the scope of works. 
Repair works began on Mr D and Mrs Ds home in December 2019. 
In February 2020, Mr D raised some concerns about the way the work was being completed. 
QICs contractors agreed to make some changes in response to the concerns raised.
Mr D raised further concerns following a visit to his home as he observed that some items 
had been damaged. It appeared that this was due to the cleaning company which QIC hired.
The cleaning company has ultimately responded Mr Ds complaint of damage, and offered 
Mr D and Mrs D £450 to settle the items which were damaged. 
There was limited communication between the parties between Spring and Summer 2020 
when a site visit then took place. Mr D had a number of outstanding snagging issues. QIC 
offered to make a cash settlement in respect of these issues, so that Mr D could source his 
own repairs for the remaining issues. 
Mr D sent a complaint to QIC detailing the losses and damages he considered were 
outstanding. QIC responded to the complaint, setting out its view on each issue and whether 
this was caused by QICs agents, or if the damage pre-dated the work. 
QIC offered Mr D and Mrs D £2,244.04 plus VAT in settlement of his claim. Mr D and Mrs D 
rejected this offer and came to us. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint. She thought that QIC had 
delayed for periods and had not communicated effectively with Mr D throughout the works, 
but that the majority of the snagging issues which had been noted had been reasonably 
responded to in QICs settlement offer. She thought, however, that QIC should repair or cash 
settle for the damaged alarm system, which she thought was more likely than not caused by 
QICs contractors. She thought that QIC ought to pay £250 for Mr D and Mrs Ds distress 
and inconvenience.
QIC has accepted the investigators view. Mr D and Mrs D have not. They think that the offer 
of settlement is too low.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the leak and the repair works has been a long and stressful episode for Mr 
D and Mrs D and they clearly feel that the matter could have been handled better. They have 
explained that they want to feel confident that their home is properly repaired, and that their 
home was respected throughout the repair works. 
As with my colleagues view, I will not respond to each item of damage or snagging, but 
have looked at how this claim has been dealt with in the round. This is because with a leak 
like this there is an inevitable amount of disruption, distress and anxiety caused to 
consumers when they are concerned about the state of their home and whether it has been 
properly rectified and sanitised. 
In this case, from the evidence I have seen, I agree with my colleagues view that the 
materials and overall workmanship appear to be reasonable and of industry standards. 
Some issues were missed and/or omitted from the scope of works, but QIC has responded 
reasonably to the issues which were brought to its attention. QIC has, in my view, taken a 
pragmatic approach to settling the remaining issues in offering a cash settlement for these, 
as it appears unlikely that the parties could now remedy these issues effectively and agree 
on the finish. 
I have reviewed QICs breakdown of the remaining issues and its explanation of how it 
reached its settlement figure and I think that this is reasonably explained and a sufficient 
sum, especially when considered alongside the offer from the cleaning contractor. I 
appreciate that Mr D and Mrs D do not feel it is enough to reflect their losses, and they 
discuss damage to part of a garden suite, but on the evidence available I think it is a 
reasonable settlement offer. 
I agree with the investigators view that QIC and its contractors were more likely to have 
caused the damaged wire to the alarm system than any other person, so I agree that QIC 
ought to repair, or pay for the repair of, this alarm system. 
Looking then to the recommended level of compensation, I understand that £250 does not 
reflect the full disruption caused to Mr D and Mrs D as a result of the leak, but the vast 
majority of their distress and inconvenience was caused by the leak, which necessitated the 
works, rather than because of wrongdoing by QIC. I think that £250 is appropriate for the 
level of additional distress and inconvenience caused to them by the periods of delay and 
the periods of less communication from QIC. 
Overall, I think the outcome put forward by the investigator is fair and in line with other awards we would make in similar circumstances. I therefore partially uphold Mr D and Mrs 
Ds complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right, QIC should pay to Mr D and Mrs D the settlement sum of £2,244.04 plus 
£448.80 representing VAT, they should arrange for repair of, or pay for a repair to, the alarm 
system, and pay to Mr D and Mrs D £250 compensation.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint and direct QIC Europe 
Ltd to:  
pay to Mr D and Mrs D the settlement sum of £2,244.04 plus £448.80 to reflect VAT;
repair, or pay for the repair of, the alarm system at Mr D and Mrs Ds home; and 
pay to Mr D and Mrs D £250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman