DRN-4177790
The complaint
Mr N complains Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has declined a claim on his residential 
property owners insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In February 2023, Mr Ns reported a leak at his property from an external 
underground water pipe. 
Covea asked Mr N to obtain two quotes from contractors, obtain photographic 
evidence of the leak once it was discovered, and obtain the contractors opinion of 
the cause of damage so it could confirm whether it was covered under the policy. It 
said any work that went ahead will be on a without prejudice basis as the cause of 
damage to the pipe needs to be confirmed to see if the policy can cover it.
Mr Ns contractor completed the repair works but was unable to confirm the cause of 
damage to the pipe.
Covea declined the claim as the damage hadnt been shown to be caused by an 
insured event/peril.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, Mr N didnt agree. He felt the Insurer 
has applied an exclusion and therefore he felt it was the responsibility of the insurer 
to prove an exclusion applies as per the information he found on our Services 
website. Mr N also said in his opinion the damage to the pipe was caused from 
unprecedented changes in temperature experienced in 2021 and 2022.
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint and Ill explain my reasoning below.
With any insurance claim the onus is on the policyholder to show that they have a valid claim 
thats covered by the policy.
The policy covers Accidental damage to cables, pipes and tanks. And accidental damage is 
defined within the policy as unexpected physical damage caused suddenly by an identifiable 
external means.
Its not disputed that the pipe was damaged, but Mr N hasnt been able to demonstrate that 
the leak was caused by accidental damage. Ive not seen any supporting evidence from Mr 
Ns contractor to determine how the pipe was damaged. And without a cause of damage 
report it hasnt been proven that an insured event/peril has occurred.
Im therefore satisfied that on the evidence Covea received it has fairly declined the claim as 
no insured event/peril appears to have happened. Mr N has said that Covea has unfairly 
applied an exclusion to decline the claim. Insurers will set out in policy wording whats not 
covered. Each term which explains whats not covered is called an exclusion. But this hasnt 
occurred in this case, Covea has simply looked to see if the event Mr N is claiming for is 
covered by one of the perils listed in the policy. 
Mr N has also said in his opinion that the damage was caused by unprecedented ground 
level temperature changes in 2021-2022. This opinion isnt supported by an expert and there 
is no supporting evidence to demonstrate it. Even if I was to accept that this was the cause, 
on its face its unclear to me what peril this would fall under within the policy. However, If Mr 
N can obtain evidence to support his claim of accidental damage to the pipe, I would expect 
Covea to consider it. 
In summary from the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded the damage was caused by an 
insured event/peril covered by the policy. I therefore wont be directing Covea to do anything 
further on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman