DRN-2627879
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund her premium in 
relation to her travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its 
agents. 
Miss Y is helping Mrs Y to bring her complaint. Mr Ys complaint is being dealt with 
separately as he purchased a separate policy.    
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs Y purchased a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes for a 
trip in April 2020. In October 2019, Mrs Y contacted Great Lakes and amended her trip dates 
so that her departure and return dates of 7 April 2020 and 15 April 2020 respectively. The 
trip was a package holiday booked with a travel provider. Mrs Y paid a total premium of 
£545.75 for the policy, which included a medical premium in relation to declared medical 
conditions.     
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad and Mrs Ys travel provider cancelled the trip. I understand that Mrs Y 
received a refund of the cost of the trip. 
Mrs Y says that she tried to contact Great Lakes to cancel the policy on several occasion 
both before and after her planned departure date. She was able to speak with Great Lakes 
in May 2020. Great Lakes didnt agree to a refund as Mrs Ys request to cancel the policy 
was outside the 14 day cooling off period. Great Lakes said that it couldnt offer Mrs Y its 
usual offers of moving the policy dates or a pro rata voucher, as the original policy dates had 
expired. It offered Mrs Y 20% discount on the base price of her next policy. Mrs Y didnt think 
that was fair and pursued her complaint. 
In response to a request from this service, Great Lakes said that it was willing to provide  
Mrs Y with a pro rata credit voucher of £56.73. It calculated that amount on the basis that it 
had provided cover up until Mrs Ys trip was cancelled on 17 March 2020: the refund related 
to the unused remaining days of the policy until its end date. 
Miss Y told us that Mrs Y had been diagnosed with a serious health condition and was 
unable to travel in the foreseeable future or possibly at all. The investigator asked          
Great Lakes to provide a cash refund instead of a credit voucher in this case. Great Lakes 
agreed to do so. 
The investigator thought that Great Lakes offer of a cash refund of £56.73 was fair. She set 
out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances 
of this case. The investigator also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law 
that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is 
not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums 
relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the policy started in August 2019 and the policy covered various risks before Mrs Ys trip 
was cancelled.  
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that Great Lakes offer of a cash refund of £56.73 was a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to retain 
the premium as changes to her health meant that she wont be able to travel in the 
foreseeable future. Mrs Y thinks that Great Lakes didnt provide any service but benefitted 
from the premium. She asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed 
to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
I think that the offer of a cash refund of £56.73 which Great Lakes has now made is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why: 
Mrs Y says that she had difficulty contacting Great Lakes in order to cancel the 
policy. I havent seen anything to support Mrs Ys recollection about that, such as 
phone records, but I dont think I need to trouble her for more information about that 
as it doesnt alter the outcome here. Thats because Great Lakes calculated the 
refund its now willing to pay to Mrs Y on the basis that the policy was cancelled on 
17 March 2020, when Mrs Ys trip was cancelled. So, any delay caused by difficulty 
contacting Great Lakes doesnt affect the amount now due to Mrs Y.
 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. Looking at 
how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask Great Lakes to consider 
exercising its discretion in this case and to refund the total premium Mrs Y paid. 
Thats because I dont think this type of situation is one which the discretion in the 
policy terms is designed to cover  it specifically mentions bereavement or a change 
in its willingness to cover medical conditions and thats not what happened here. Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable including the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this 
case, I think Great Lakes offer of a cash refund of part of the premium is fair. Thats 
because Mrs Y had the benefit of cancellation cover under the policy from the date 
she took the policy out in August 2019 until her trip was cancelled in March 2020. So, 
the policy covered the risk of Mrs Y having to cancel her trip due to an insured event, 
including falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. So, I dont agree 
that Great Lakes didnt provide any service to Mrs Y.  
In the particular circumstances of this case and given the changes in Mrs Ys health, I 
think its fair and reasonable here for Great Lakes to offer a cash refund, rather than 
a pro rata credit voucher or discount on a future policy.  
I appreciate that Mrs Y wants a refund of the total premium she paid but Great Lakes 
isnt obliged to offer that. I think the cash refund its offered is fair. Thats because 
Mrs Y had the benefit of the policy up to the date her trip was cancelled. The offer 
Great Lakes has made is more than its obliged to make and takes into account    
Mrs Ys particular circumstances in relation to the likelihood of future travel. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer Great Lakes has made is fair so Im upholding the 
complaint to that extent. I now require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mrs Y £56.73. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman