DRN-2609335
The complaint
Mr R complains that a used car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement by BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW FS) wasnt of satisfactory quality contrary to the
Consumer Rights Act 2015.  
What happened
In April 2019, Mr R acquired a used motor car from BMW FS under a hire purchase
agreement. It was supplied to him through a dealer whom Ill call D. The car was then
about 6 years old and had a recorded mileage of some 82,000 miles. Under the hire 
purchase agreement Mr R agreed to pay for the car over 5 years by monthly instalments of
£281.17 each.
In May 2019, Mr R reported to D that the cars engine was overheating. D replaced the
thermostat. Mr R had to pay £182, including £130 for the car to be transported back to D, for
the thermostat to be replaced. However, the problem continued.
In September 2019 Mr R had the car examined by a specialist engineer for this type of car.
The engineer said the problem was caused by a failing head gasket, and there was evidence
to show this had been failing at the point of sale. He said that in his experience of this engine
model, if the gasket was replaced, it would fail again, probably within 12 months.
He recommended that as well as replacing the head gasket, the engine should be
substantially rebuilt with stronger replacement parts to avoid the problem recurring. He also
recommended that at the same time the clutch, air filter, spark plugs and some light bulbs
should be replaced.
D and BMW FS refused to pay for any of this work. So Mr R instructed the engineer to carry
out all the work at a cost of £9,000, and then complained to us.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. BMW FS said D
had carried out a pre-delivery inspection of the car, and an MOT test, at the time of the sale.
So it thought this showed the fault wasnt present at delivery.
Our investigator didnt agree. He said the fault was unlikely to have been picked up by a
standard MOT test. Mr R had complained to D about the engine overheating soon after
delivery, and replacing the thermostat hadnt cured the fault. So he was satisfied the car had
a fault at delivery which meant it didnt meet the requirement of satisfactory quality under the
Consumer Rights Act 2015.
However, the investigator wasnt persuaded that all the work Mr Rs engineer recommended,
and which he had carried out, was necessary to fix the problem. Given the age and mileage
of the car he thought some of the work was required because of normal wear and repair, and
some resulted in the car being rebuilt to a higher specification than when it was new.
So the investigator thought BMW FS should only be responsible for the cost of the parts and
labour of replacing the head gasket. He recommended that BMW FS should obtain more
than one quote for the cost of this, and then reimburse the fair cost of this to Mr R, along with
simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% from when he incurred his expenditure. BMW FS 
didnt respond to this recommendation. 
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mr R and to BMW FS on 26 January 2021. In it I said 
that, for the reasons the investigator had explained, I accepted it was fair and reasonable 
that BMW FS should reimburse to Mr R the fair cost of replacing the head gasket, parts and 
labour. However, I wasnt persuaded it would be fair to require BMW FS to reimburse the 
other work Mr Rs engineer carried out.
While I accepted it was desirable for this work to be carried out at the same time, I thought it
either amounted to wear and tear, for which Mr R was responsible, or an improvement,
which I couldnt reasonably require BMW FS to pay for.
I thought BMW FS should now obtain two independent estimates of what this work would 
have cost if carried out on its own so that I could decide what it was reasonable for BMW FS 
to pay, with interest from the date Mr R incurred his expenditure. I invited BMW FS to obtain 
and supply this information to the investigator to assist me in reaching a fair figure for my 
final decision.
However, conscious that BMW FS had previously ignored this recommendation from the
Investigator, I invited Mr R also to obtain this information, either from the engineer who
carried out the work on his car or from an independent engineer, and supply it to the
investigator, so that I would also have this information available when coming to a final
decision.
I noted that when Mr R first complained to D about the overheating, he incurred a cost of 
£182 in transporting the car back to D and having the thermostat replaced, which didnt 
seem to have had any effect on the overheating. I thought it was fair and reasonable that as 
this didnt address the fault, this cost should be reimbursed by BMW FS, with interest from 
the date it was incurred.
Mr R had also said that on the day he acquired the car D told him the brake pads and discs
were worn and needed to be replaced, and had fitted replacements. However, Mr R then 
found the discs and pads fitted were the wrong specification for the car, and all had to be 
replaced by Mr R at his own cost.
I said that if Mr R could confirm that the discs and pads fitted by D were an incorrect 
specification for the car and so had to be replaced, and it wasnt that he just wished to fit an 
improvement, then I thought it was fair and reasonable that BMW FS should reimburse the 
cost of this also, with interest from the date Mr R incurred his expenditure. I invited Mr R to 
submit evidence on this to the investigator which I would take into account in my final 
decision.
Finally, I didnt think BMW FS had treated Mr R fairly when he complained to BMW FS that 
the car when supplied was of unsatisfactory quality, and this had caused Mr R distress and
inconvenience. I thought BMW FS should pay Mr R a further £250 as compensation for this.
I said that, subject to any further comments and evidence I received from either BMW FS or 
from Mr R, I intended to uphold this decision in part. I intended to order BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to pay to Mr R:1. the fair cost, parts and labour, of replacing the head gasket if this had been carried 
out on its own when he complained about his engine overheating;
2. the £182 he paid D in respect of the thermostat;
3. the cost of replacing the discs and pads on the car, subject to Mr R satisfying me that 
they were indeed the wrong specification for this car and it was reasonable for him to 
replace them;
4. interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple on each of the amounts mentioned in 1, 2, 
and 3 above from the respective dates each amount was incurred by Mr R until 
settlement ; and
5. compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R submitted evidence of the cost of dealing with the replacement of the head gasket as a 
standalone item, which was £2,316 inclusive of VAT.
He also submitted evidence of the cost of replacing the brake pads and discs, which was 
£360 inclusive of VAT. It appeared that contrary to what D told Mr R, D didnt actually 
replace the discs and pads as he said he would. So when Mr R had the discs and pads 
checked the month after purchase they required immediate replacement.
I advised BMW FS that in the circumstances I intended to require it to reimburse both these 
amounts with interest as set out in the provisional decision. BMW FS responded to say that it 
had nothing further to add and would await my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept the evidence Mr R has supplied about the cost of dealing with the replacement of 
the head gasket as a standalone item, and the cost and necessity of replacing the discs and 
pads on the car. Subject to that, as neither Mr R nor BMW FS has provided any fresh 
information or evidence in response to my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart 
from my earlier conclusions.  
Putting things right
To put things right, I think BMW FS should pay Mr R the money set out in my final decision 
below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to pay to Mr R:
1. £2,316, in respect of the cost of replacing the head gasket as a standalone item;
2. the £182 he paid D in respect of the thermostat;
3. £360 in respect of the cost of replacing the discs and pads on the car;4. interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple on each of the amounts mentioned in 1, 2, 
and 3 above from the respective dates each amount was incurred by Mr R until 
settlement *; and
5. compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
*If BMW FS considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman