DRN-3570852
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a package bank account. 
Mr E has also complained that he was forced to keep the package bank account when he 
tried to remove the fee-paid element from his account.
What happened
Mr E opened a Silver (fee-paid) account on 8 June 2009. 
Mr E has complained about the sale of his Silver account and that he was told that to 
remove the fee-paid element from the account the account would need to be closed.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Es complaint about the sale of his Silver account 
and what he told us about the information he was given when trying to cancel it, but didnt 
think it should be upheld. As Mr E disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think that Mr E was mis-sold the Silver account. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
It has been agreed that Lloyds recommended the Silver account that was sold to Mr E on 8 
June 2009. This means it had to ensure that the account was fit for his circumstances at the 
time.
Mr E has told us that when Lloyds sold him the Silver account, he was not given the option 
of opening a fee-free account and was told the Silver account was the only option available 
to him. 
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time Mr E took his Silver 
account but I think its unlikely Lloyds told him the Silver account was his only option. To 
uphold Mr Es complaint for this reason I would need to see strong evidence that this was 
the information given to Mr E when he took his Silver account, which I havent seen.
In the information provided by Mr E he has told us that he previously held a fee-free account. 
While this account was not held at Lloyds, I think Mr E would have been aware that other 
options including fee-free bank accounts were available to him.
At the time Mr E took his Silver account it came with European travel insurance, breakdown 
insurance, mobile phone insurance and sentinel card cover. I can see that Mr E used the 
breakdown cover that came with the account several times and registered several mobile 
phones to the mobile phone insurance. Mr E also made a claim under the mobile phone 
insurance.
With the above in mind Mr E was able to make use of the benefits that came with the Silver 
account and they were useful to him on several occasions. While there is no evidence Mr E 
used the travel insurance this was available to him for peace of mind if he needed to use it at 
any time. So, I think Lloyds recommendation to Mr E to take the Silver account was 
reasonable and I dont think Lloyds mis-sold him the account.
Mr E has told us that when he tried to downgrade his account to a free account, he was told 
he would have to close the account entirely and so was forced to keep it and had to continue 
paying the associated fee. Lloyds doesnt have any record of Mr E attempting to downgrade 
his account, but he has told us he made the enquiry in branch, so this isnt surprising.
I think its unlikely Lloyds would have told Mr E he was unable to downgrade his account and 
I havent seen enough to suggest that this was the case. Although if Mr E did downgrade his 
account, he would lose all the benefits that he had previously been able to make use of, so I 
think this was likely discussed with him. I also think it is reasonable for Lloyds to explain the 
benefits that would have been lost had Mr E decided to downgrade his account. So, I dont 
think the information Lloyds gave Mr E was incorrect or misleading.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman