DRN-3400028
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Chubb European Group SE has unfairly declined a claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have business and leisure travel insurance cover through their company  this 
insurance is underwritten by Chubb. This policy provides cover for trips that start and end in 
their country of residence. Mr and Mrs M live outside the UK, in a country I will call S.
In mid-December 2020, they travelled to the UK from S and were due to fly back on 30 
January 2021. On 24 December 2020, the airline cancelled their flights home. Mr and Mrs M 
bought new tickets to fly home on the same day with another airline, but this was not a direct 
flight  the route included a connection in a place which I will call D. Unfortunately, this flight 
was also cancelled on 29 January 2021. As Mr and Mrs M had completed Covid-19 tests in 
readiness for their travel and as these had a limited validity, they purchased new airline 
tickets which involved another connection elsewhere in order to get back home. They arrived 
home on 1 February 2021.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim to Chubb for the additional flight costs they incurred to get 
home, along with the costs of the Covid-19 tests and a taxi fare. Chubb initially sent details 
of a settlement offer through but when Mr and Mrs M queried the amount, it said it had made 
a mistake and that the claim wasnt covered. 
Chubb said that the policy didnt provide cover for claims for expenses that were incurred as 
a result of regulations or order made by a government. It explained that on 29 January 2021, 
the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel to D due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. And this is why Mr and Mrs Ms flights were cancelled. As a result, it refused 
the claim. However, Chubb did offer to pay £200 for incorrectly putting forward a settlement 
offer.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs M complained to Chubb and brought their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. She found that the cancellation of the flights was due to the 
travel restrictions put into place by the UK government and so she said that it was fair for 
Chubb to decline the claim on this basis. She also said that, whilst Chubb had made a 
mistake in initially agreeing to settle the claim, she felt that the £200 offered as 
compensation for the poor service was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view. They said the airline they were 
originally due to travel with didnt provide a reason for the cancellation of the flights and so it 
would be unfair to assume that this was as a result of government action.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy Mr and Mrs M held includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. 
On page 28 of the policy booklet, under a section titled Section B4  Disruption, the policy 
states it will provide cover:
If during the Period of Insurance a Journey is delayed, cancelled, altered or 
curtailed, or the Insured Person has to be replaced, all as a direct result of any cause 
outside of the Policyholders or Insured Persons control the Insurer will pay the 
Policyholder for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred up to the amount 
shown in the Schedule of Benefits for any one Journey for:
[]
2. Alteration of Itinerary or Curtailment 
Loss of deposits, or charges for advance payments for travel or accommodation or 
other charges which have not been and will not be used, but which become forfeit or 
payable under contract; and additional sustenance, travel and accommodation 
expenses.
This section also includes a list of reasons when cover wont be provided  known as 
exclusions. Within the list it states the following:
For Journeys that are covered, the Insurer shall not be liable for:
8. any expenses incurred as a result of regulations or order made by any Public 
Authority or Government;
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Mr and Mrs M had to make alternative travel arrangements after their return flight home was 
cancelled by the airline. The flight cancellation was outside their control and they incurred 
additional expenses as a result. The policy does provide cover for such circumstances under 
the Disruption section. However, whilst Mr and Mrs Ms claim meets the criteria under this 
section, the insurer is entitled to decline the claim if it can show that an exclusion applies. 
Chubb has said that the cancellation of the flights, which led to Mr and Mrs M incurring 
additional expenses, was as a result of travel restrictions put in place by the UK government 
to D. And as the policy excludes claims which are as a result of regulations or orders made 
by a government, it has said the claim isnt covered.
On 28 January 2021, the UK government announced travel restrictions that would come into 
force on 29 January 2021. These included prohibition of flights from D to the UK. On 29 
January 2021, Mr and Mrs M sent an email to their broker in which they advised their flights 
had been cancelled as a result of the UK government ban on travel to D. Taking this into account, Im satisfied that the cause of the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ms flights home, 
travelling through D, was due to regulations or orders made by the UK government  which 
is excluded within the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs M have referred to the original flights they had booked which were cancelled on 
24 December 2020. They said the airline didnt give a reason for cancelling the flights and so 
it would be wrong to assume that this was due to government orders or regulations. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms comments regarding the cause of the cancellation of the initial 
flights and Im aware that these restrictions relating to flights to D were not in place at the 
time when the first flights were cancelled in late December 2020. So, Ive thought about this 
point very carefully. However, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Chubb should 
pay the claim on this basis. Ill explain why.
As the airline hasnt confirmed why it cancelled Mr and Mrs Ms flights on 24 December 
2020, I need to consider what I think is the most likely cause of that cancellation. And to do 
that I have looked at what was happening at that time. Towards the end of 2020, the UK 
government brought in a tier system in relation to lockdown measures which placed varying 
levels of restriction on the public, including travel restrictions. And on 19 December 2020, the 
UK government introduced a new level, tier four, which put even more stringent measures 
into place. This was put into place across areas of the South East of England from 21 
December 2020. Considering the restrictions on travel that were being put in place and the 
escalation of these measures at the time, Im of the opinion that these additional controls 
brought in by the UK government would have been a factor in the airlines decision to cancel 
bookings.
In addition to this, Ive seen that the government of S announced on 23 December 2020 that 
UK tourists were going to be prevented from entering the country from 28 December 2020  
and this restriction would be in place until 31 January 2021. Although Mr and Mrs M could 
still travel to S, as they were resident there, their flights were with a UK based airline - so I 
think its likely this government restriction may also have played a part in the airlines 
decision. 
Taking all of this into account, Im persuaded that Chubb has fairly declined Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim for disruption under their travel insurance policy. 
Claims handling
Following the submission of their claim, Mr and Mrs M received details of a settlement offer 
from Chubb. The settlement offered was less than the amount Mr and Mrs M had claimed 
and so they queried the calculations. It wasnt until approximately one month later that 
Chubb explained that it had made a mistake and the claim wasnt covered and would be 
declined. 
I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been for Mr and Mrs M, not only being told 
they would be getting a settlement but then having to wait quite some time before they were 
informed of this error. I think Chubb could have handled the situation better. Chubb has 
recognised that the service received was not of the standard it would have expected and has 
paid £200 to Mr and Mrs M as compensation.
I do need to take into consideration that this was an unprecedented situation and Covid-19 
was having a significant impact on the travel insurance industry. So, I dont think it is 
unreasonable that this would have had some impact on the normal levels of service. With 
that in mind, Im persuaded that the offer of £200 for the poor service is reasonable. I dont 
require Chubb to pay anything further.My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman