DRN-2980717
The complaint
Miss E complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly declined her horse insurance 
claim and provided poor customer service. 
What happened
Between February 2017 and December 2020, Miss E had an injury only policy with Allianz to 
insure her mature horse O. This policy was renewed on a yearly basis and is now 
cancelled. 
In July 2020, following a routine dental examination O had two fractured teeth extracted.  
Miss E then made a claim for the cost of this treatment under the terms of her policy. 
In November 2020, Miss E received a letter from Allianz which said her claim had been 
declined. She didnt think this outcome was fair, so she complained about Allianzs decision 
and the customer service she received while her claim was being assessed. 
In January 2021, Allianz sent Miss E a final response and said their decision to decline the 
claim remained the same. They said they reached this outcome as they didnt think the 
dental fractures had been caused by an injury. They also said they had added a 
retrospective exclusion to her policy dating back to 2018, for any injury involving Os mouth 
or teeth due to Os clinical record showing a history of dental concerns. They did 
acknowledge some poor customer service and delays when considering the claim. So, they 
offered Miss E £100 compensation to reflect this. 
An investigator at our service considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the 
compensation Allianz had already offered Miss E was a fair amount to reflect the trouble and 
upset she experienced. He also said based on all the clinical evidence, he didnt think Allianz 
had unreasonably concluded the teeth fractures were unlikely to have been caused by an 
injury. The investigator also explained that Allianz had since decided the retrospective mouth 
exclusion should only apply from February 2020. However, as he thought Allianz had 
declined the claim fairly based on the clinical evidence  he didnt think this changed the 
outcome of the claim or complaint.
Miss E then asked for a final decision. She didnt agree with the outcome and said her 
distress merited far more compensation than the £100 shed been offered. She also believed 
this compensation offer had been withdrawn in any event, as shed referred the complaint to 
our service, and Allianz told her this would happen if she did.
Our investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence Allianz had withdrawn their compensation 
offer, and his opinion otherwise remained the same. 
 So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers 
should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So, Ive also taken 
these rules and guidance into consideration.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions for the following reasons:
The policy wording defines injury as: Physical damage or trauma caused 
immediately by an accident. Not any physical damage or trauma that happened over 
a period of time. To uphold this complaint, I would therefore need to be satisfied the 
clinical evidence shows the dental work Miss E claimed for complies with this 
definition.
I should stress that I am not a vet, and nor do I have specialist veterinary knowledge. 
So, when considering complaints such as this one, I consider what the clinical notes 
show and the opinion of the experts. And, thats what Ive done here.
Ive started with considering the comments of the treating vet as they physically 
inspected O. They said the cause of the fractures is most likely to have been 
idiopathic which in simple terms means the cause is unknown. They also said, 
injury couldnt be ruled out. However, Im not satisfied concluding something 
couldnt be ruled out is the same as saying they think its the key cause of the 
damage.
Ive then considered the report completed by the consultant vet Allianz appointed. 
The consultant reviewed all the clinical history and the treating vets comments 
before concluding he didnt think the fractures had been caused immediately by an 
accident. This was based on his professional opinion, that the clinical notes would 
show evidence of acute onset of pain, quidding and unusual head carriage due to O 
eating on the other side of his mouth. I find this evidence particularly persuasive, as 
Miss E doesnt dispute the fact the dental work was identified as part of a routine 
dental examination. I also agree that none of the suggested symptoms are stated in 
Os clinical history.
The consultant vet also said The clinical record does indicate previous dental 
extraction and dental decay including dental caries. The fractures are described as 
slab fractures. These are not uncommon in the older horse. They are mostly seen on 
routine dental examination as here, so onset is not known indicating a pathological 
process/weakening of the tooth. A slab of enamel and associated cementum splits 
away from the main body of the tooth. Im also satisfied these comments appear to 
be an accurate reflection of Os clinical history, and it was reasonable for the vet to 
consider Os age.
So, while I accept its possible the fractures could have been caused due to an injury 
 I think most of the clinical evidence ( including both vets comments and the clinical 
history) suggests Allianz concluded fairly and reasonably that this was unlikely to be 
the case. This also means Im satisfied they had reasonable grounds to decline the 
claim.
I dont need to decide if Allianz acted reasonably by applying a mouth exclusion to 
Miss Es policy from February 2020, as the policy has since been cancelled and Im 
already satisfied Allianz acted reasonably by declining Miss Es claim. But I do acknowledge their initial incorrect decision - that an exclusion should have been 
applied from 2018 - may have caused Miss E some confusion and upset. 
I appreciate Miss E feels she should receive a significant amount of compensation for 
the trouble and upset Allianz caused her. Im sorry to disappoint Miss E, but Im not 
satisfied this would be appropriate under the circumstances. I appreciate the delay in 
receiving an answer to her claim would have been upsetting, and its clear some 
things have gone wrong throughout the duration of this claim. However, Allianz have 
already offered to pay Miss E £100 compensation, and I think this is a fair and 
proportionate amount to reflect the poor customer service she received. I also note 
that Allianzs compensation offer is like what Ive awarded in other similar 
circumstances.
Miss E has said Allianz told her she could only receive the £100 compensation if she 
didnt raise a complaint with our service. This comment isnt supported by the 
evidence Ive considered, and Im satisfied this compensation should be paid in any 
event. To resolve the complaint, Allianz should therefore arrange for Miss E to be 
paid £100 compensation without delay - provided she accepts this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Allianz Insurance Plc have already offered   
Miss E a reasonable resolution to this complaint. I therefore direct them to pay her £100 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman