DRN-2541821
The complaint
Mr W complains that Mercia Financial Planning Limited should not have advised him to 
transfer his preserved occupational pension scheme benefits to a personal pension at the 
time when it did. He says he should have been advised to delay the transfer.
What happened
In 2018 Mr W sought advice from Mercia about transferring his pension. He was employed 
and was a deferred member of his employers final salary pension scheme, with 27 years 
service up to September 2017. He was also a current member of the employers defined 
contribution pension scheme.
In February 2018, he obtained a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the scheme of
£401,614.03, guaranteed for three months. He then met an adviser from Mercia in July. 
Mercia completed a Fact Find and meeting notes, which included a note that Mr Ws work 
colleagues had seen the transfer values reduce significantly over the last 3 months. [Mr W] 
had a statement in January showing CETV £400K. He is now worried that transfer values 
may have reached their peak and for the reasons mentioned in key drivers section he wants 
to move ASAP.
A new CETV was obtained, which gave a transfer value of £347,233.42. 
Mercia assessed Mr Ws attitude to risk as low medium based on a questionnaire and 
discussions about investment risk and his capacity for loss. It also obtained a transfer value 
analysis system (TVAS) report which quoted the critical yield to 65 as 10.1%. Mercia advised 
Mr W to transfer to a personal pension, though it also said he could be entitled to a higher 
transfer value in future.
Mr W complained to Mercia about the timing of the advice to transfer. He suggested the 
CETV had been low due to the number of other members transferring. He said hed asked 
whether he should wait and had been told by Mercia that the CETV would probably fall 
further. He also said Mercia had told him the government had written to schemes expressing 
concerns over transfer values being too high. Mr W referred to colleagues values, and said 
that they had gone up again after he had transferred his pension. 
Mercia didnt accept that its advice had been wrong. It said: 
the value could have gone either way;
he would have complained if it had advised him to wait and the value had fallen; and
it had warned him the value might go up again.
Mr W then referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He said:
he wasnt looking at the overall suitability of the transfer  if Mr W wanted to complain 
about that hed need to make a complaint to Mercia first;
he was only considering whether Mercia was right to advise Mr W to transfer at the 
time he did, or should have advised him to wait;
transfer values do go up and down;
although short term fluctuations in value are foreseeable, the long term direction 
generally isnt;
Mercia had to advise on the basis of the information it knew, and it had done that.
Mr W disagreed with the investigator and raised a number of points, including:
the transfer value he was given dropped by about £50,000, which was a huge 
reduction;
Mercia advised him transfer values were going down and the figure he was given 
was still a very good value;
a work colleague was advised not to transfer at that time as transfer values were low, 
and to wait for 12 months  he should have been given the same advice.
The investigator considered Mr Ws points and obtained some further information, but this 
didnt lead him to change his view. He said the information available at the time didnt  
indicate values would increase and to uphold the complaint, hed need to conclude Mercia 
should have known the value would go up again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the investigation Mr W has commented on the suitability of the advice about 
transferring out of his company pension scheme. But the complaint he made was specifically 
about the timing of the transfer  he complained that Mercia gave him bad advice on the 
timing and should not have advised him to transfer when he did; he should have been 
advised to wait and look at it again in 12 months time. So in this complaint Im only 
considering whether Mercia should have advised him to wait, not about whether it was 
suitable for him to transfer at all.
When giving advice, Id expect the adviser to consider whether the advice was suitable for 
the customers needs, and to provide enough information in good time to enable them to 
make an informed decision. Mercia had reviewed Mr Ws pension situation in some detail 
and provided a report setting out its recommendations. Mr W did raise the issue of the drop 
in transfer value, so Mercia should have considered whether this meant it was suitable to 
transfer at that time or  as Mr W says  it would be better to wait.
I appreciate there was a large drop in the transfer value, so Mr W would of course have been 
concerned about this and the effect it would have on his pension savings. But I dont think 
the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr W is effectively saying Mercia should have realised the transfer value would go up. An 
adviser wouldnt necessarily be aware of all the causes of short term fluctuations. Mercia 
asked the scheme why the transfer value had reduced from £401,614.03 to £347,233.42. It 
was told the values were different because of the change in monthly factors applied to 
benefits, and current calculations were producing lower figures. The scheme said it had 
received a lot of enquiries and had asked the fund actuary about this. The response given 
said there were two factors  movements in financial markets and a slowing of the long term 
improvement in life expectancy. 
Mercia has also referred to the fact the Regulator questioned around that time whether 
pension schemes were offering transfer values that were too high, which could worsen their 
funding positions, and had written to a number of schemes about this. I dont know if Mr Ws scheme was one of those. But it is an indication that there were concerns about transfer 
values being too high. 
Taking into account these factors, I dont think the information available at the time would 
have led Mercia to conclude values would increase in the short term. 
It was possible, though, that the value might go up again. So Ive considered what Mercia 
said to Mr W about this. The letter to Mr W setting out the advice included warnings about 
the transfer value. It said values had been falling and Mr W wanted to lock in the value to 
remove any risk of a further drop. But it also noted that he might get a higher transfer value 
in future. And it advised Mr W to think very carefully, weighing up all the factors, before 
making a decision.
Mercia has also pointed out that if it had advised Mr W to wait and values had continued to 
fall, he might then have complained about that. Neither Mercia nor Mr W knew whether the 
CETV would continue to fall or would start to increase in the following months. But I think its 
a reasonable point that if Mr W had been advised to wait and the value had continued to fall, 
he would have been just as unhappy about that.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mercia knew, or should have known, that the 
CETV would increase again in the short term, or that Mr W should have been advised not to 
transfer but to wait and review it in 12 months time; it wasnt known whether values would 
have gone up or down by then. 
Mr W has referred to a colleague being given different advice. I dont have any information 
about that individuals circumstances, and there may have been other factors involved. In 
any event, I can only consider Mr Ws circumstances and the advice he was given. On the 
basis of the information that was available, I dont think Mercia was at fault in advising Mr W 
to transfer at that point rather than waiting until a later date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman