DRN-3221165
The complaint
Mr N complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) are asking him to pay money he 
doesnt owe and have made a mistake when reporting missed payments to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr N, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Mr N thinks he paid all of the instalments that were due on his credit agreement, but Hitachi 
say he cancelled his direct debit early and still owes them a payment.
I understand that the confusion here stems from Hitachis failure to take a payment when it 
was due. In September they told Mr N about that and explained it would therefore be 
necessary to take two payments later.
Ive reviewed the statement of account to see if Mr N did owe a payment. I can see that 
payment 35 of the 36 due was collected on 1 October 2020. Hitachi tried to collect the last 
payment on 2 November 2020 but as Mr N had cancelled his direct debit by that time the 
collection failed.
Im persuaded therefore that Mr N still owed a payment; albeit a reduced one as Hitachi had 
agreed to waive part of the payment for the period 26 September 2020 to 8 October 2020 
after Mr N had returned the car.
Mr N says that the business failed to take a payment in April 2019 and that demonstrates the 
business bookkeeping was inadequate. Im not persuaded there is evidence that a payment 
wasnt taken as it appears a payment was debited on 30 April 2019. I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence to suggest Hitachi made a mistake then and I note theyre not suggesting 
any payments were missed in that period.
Hitachi reported missed payments to Mr Ns credit file and Ive therefore considered whether 
they were fair to do so. I think they were as, whilst the initial confusion was due to Hitachi not 
taking a payment on time, the situation was clearly explained to Mr N in an email and during 
a phone call with Hitachi in October 2020 and he was sent an invoice for the outstanding 
amount. I think Hitachi had made the amount still due on the account clear and were 
therefore obliged to report missed payments to Mr Ns credit file when they were not 
received.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman