DRN-3407753
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that West Bay Insurance Plc (WBI), previously known as Zenith Insurance 
Plc, charged her a second excess and postage when she returned her mobile phone under 
her policy repair warranty. Miss J had mobile phone insurance, underwritten by WBI.
What happened
Miss J dropped her mobile phone causing screen damage. She claimed under her policy, 
which WBI accepted. It repaired the phone, replaced the battery and carried out checks to 
make sure it was operating properly before returning the phone to Miss J.
Two days after she received her phone, Miss J contacted WBI to say that it wasn't 
functioning properly. WBI asked her to return it under the repair warranty, which she did. 
However, on testing, WBI found that the fault was with the lock flex (side button) and logic 
board (one specific chip controlling the software). WBI said the faults werent related to the 
original claim, so the repair would be done as a new claim. It charged Miss J a second 
excess fee.
Miss J was unhappy with WBIs report because she said she hadnt used the phone since 
getting it back from the first repair, so the fault mustve been caused by WBIs engineers. 
WBI didnt agree because it carried out full checks to ensure it functioned properly before 
returning the phone to Miss J.
Miss J remained unhappy and she wanted WBI to refund the second excess and postage 
charge.
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Js complaint. He said WBI hadnt explained how the 
damage mightve happened and it was likely that it was caused during the repair process. 
Our investigator recommended that WBI refund to Miss J half of each of her excesses and a 
postage charge.
WBI didnt agree. It said the phone was working properly when it returned it to Miss J so it 
couldnt have been responsible for the damage.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Miss Js complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The issue here is that neither WBI nor Miss J think they are responsible for the damage 
identified during the second repair. Miss J thinks WBI mustve caused the damage during the 
first repair, but WBI says it returned the phone in full working order, so it was new damage.
In the circumstances, its difficult to know exactly how or when the damage happened. So, 
Ive looked at the evidence and reached my provisional decision based on what is most 
likely.
The first claim isnt disputed. The policy sets out Miss Js excess for a repair, which she paid 
when WBI accepted the claim. It was a valid claim and WBI fixed the screen, so I see no 
reason for WBI to refund to Miss J any part of that valid excess payment, or reimburse her 
postage. 
WBI provided copies of the repair reports and operational checks completed before returning 
the phone to Miss J. The reports state that the screen and casing was damaged in line with 
what might be expected when a phone has been dropped onto a hard surface. The reports 
document the repairs done, the battery replacement, and the checks completed before 
returning the phone to Miss J. I have no reason to doubt the credibility of these reports as 
they were prepared by phone engineers, so I cant reasonably say WBI did anything wrong 
here.
However, Ive no reason to doubt what Miss J says, either. She said the phone wasnt fully 
operational when she turned it on the day after getting it back from the repair. Im satisfied 
that WBI handled the matter fairly here because it asked her to return the phone under the 
repair warranty. 
On carrying out diagnostic checks, WBI said the side button and software werent working 
properly. However, it reported that these were new faults, unrelated to the original fault. WBI 
explained that it wouldnt have been able to complete the return checks successfully after 
the first repair if these faults already existed. Again, I have no reason to doubt this 
explanation.
WBI asked Miss J to pay a second excess, and she incurred the second postage charge, 
before it would carry out the second repair. As WBI found that it was a new fault, and 
therefore a new claim, I think it was fair to charge a second excess.
I know Miss J is unhappy that WBI hasnt explained how the second fault happened, so she 
remains of the view that WBI mustve contributed to it, somehow, during the first repair. WBI 
is only responsible for fixing the fault, so I wouldnt expect it to explain how it happened. 
Looking at the evidence, I can see WBI told Miss J such faults happen with phones the age 
of hers, and for no other apparent reason. Ive looked online to see what might cause the 
faults, and hard drops or age of the phone seem to be key factors. If the fault had happened 
when Miss J first dropped her phone, I think its unlikely that WBI wouldve missed it. Thats 
because it wouldnt have been able to turn the phone on properly to complete the checks 
before returning it to Miss J. And in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, it would be 
unfair to disregard WBIs test results.
On balance, the evidence doesnt support Miss Js view that WBI caused the damage or 
failed to fully repair her phone during the first claim, so I see no reason to ask it to refund her 
second excess or the postage charge.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.WBI responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Miss J had nothing further to add except to say the phone was non-operational because the 
battery kept turning itself off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Js complaint.
Although Miss J explained her phone now has a battery fault making it non-operational, 
having reconsidered the evidence, Im not persuaded that it makes a difference to my 
provisional decision. Thats because its a new fault and the overall evidence doesnt 
suggest that WBI failed to fix the phone when Miss J first sent it for repair. Therefore, I see 
no reason to require anything further of WBI.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Js 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman