DRN-4060888
The complaint
Miss P complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a running account 
credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In May 2018, Miss P applied for a catalogue shopping account through Next. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £250. The credit limit was increased to £2,000 in December 
2018, decreased to £600 in February 2019, then suspended in March 2019. The credit 
limit was increased again in March 2020 to £1,500 and suspended again in June 2020. A 
default was issued on the account in December 2021. 
In 2022, Miss P complained to Next to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for her because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ps complaint is that Next irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility that 
she couldnt afford. It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because I 
have not seen Miss Ps full credit file history from the times in question.
Next has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer at every lending decision. Next told us that Miss Ps 
account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check information and the credit 
limit was set using that information and their observation of Miss Ps management of the 
account. I have noted that Next have responded to observed changes in Miss Ps finances 
by raising, reducing and suspending the credit over time on the account. So, the evidence 
supports what Next have told us. 
Were the checks performed by Next proportionate and sufficient? Its difficult to say without 
a full credit file, but there is some evidence that they may have been, largely. But even if 
they hadnt been, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next to think the initial 
credit limit or the subsequent credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the credit was provided when there Nexts credit checks suggested the 
lending was affordable. The initial credit limit was reasonably modest and the repayments 
for the credit would also have been modest. And Miss Ps statements show that her income 
was regular and not modest. 
And Miss P managed her account such that in general she was not using anywhere close to 
the credit limit that Next had been offering her. And her payments were largely at or over the 
minimum payments required and not late. There were some accounting issues on the 
account with items not received but these seem to have been administrative issues rather 
than warnings for Next of financial difficulty for Miss P. And so, based on the evidence Next 
had at the times they made lending decisions, there seems not to have been sufficient 
reason for them to have made more searching enquiries into Miss Ps expenditure. 
And, as Ive said, there is evidence that Next reacted to the credit information and account 
management information it did have by reducing and suspending credit. So, it cant be said 
that Next were only interested in increasing Miss Ps indebtedness.  
In reaching my decision I have considered the whole file. Having done so, I have seen 
insufficient evidence to think that more thorough affordability checks would have led Next to 
think that it should not have provided the credit it did at the times it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman