DRN-2967485
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (Yorkshire) didnt 
advise him of their new ISA offer.
What happened
Mr M had a fixed rate cash ISA with Yorkshire. It matured on 30 November 2020. On 30 
October 2020, Yorkshire wrote to him with his options at maturity. This included the option to 
reinvest in a fixed rate ISA at 0.6% AER. Between 5 November 2020 and 27 November 
2020, Yorkshire offered (via Virgin Money) an Exclusive Fixed rate offer of 1% AER.
Mr M complained. He said hed visited a branch of Yorkshire early in November 2020 and 
they said there may be a new ISA offer on the way, but they couldnt tell him about it then. 
Mr M asked if it was possible for them to let him know if that happened. But when he went to 
the branch again  on 28 November 2020, he learnt that thered been an offer, but itd 
expired. He said thered been nothing on the Yorkshire Bank website, not had it appeared in 
his google searches. And  surely Yorkshire wouldve known about the offer when they 
wrote to him on 30 October 2020, so why didnt they tell him about it then? Mr M said the 
point that Yorkshire made about penalty charges in their final response wasnt relevant  as 
the interest wouldve easily made it worthwhile.
Yorkshire said Mr Ms maturity letter wouldve arrived by 2 November 2020. The Exclusive 
Fixed ISA was only available between 5 November 2020 and 27 November 2020  so it 
couldnt appear in the maturity pack. The Yorkshire branches arent set up to call customers 
about such offers. If Mr M had wanted to take advantage of the offer, he wouldve had to pay 
a penalty to come out of his old fixed rate ISA.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Yorkshire gave Mr M options in the 
maturity letter, including visiting the branch, speaking to his relationship manager or visiting 
their website. He didnt think there was an obligation for Yorkshire to include details of other 
accounts on offer in their maturity letter. He couldnt confirm when Mr M visited the branch  
so couldnt say if the Exclusive ISA was on offer then. And the branch staff had no 
recollection of his visit  but in any case, he wouldnt have expected the branch staff to call 
Mr M about the offer. Looking at Yorkshires website, he could see that it wouldve directed 
Mr M to Virgin Money savings, where the Exclusive ISA was advertised. Hed seen that it 
was on there on 24 November 2020, so assumed it was also there for the period it was 
offered.
Mr M didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must reach a decision here based on what Ive seen in the circumstances of this case. I 
must consider whether Yorkshire complied with the FCA regulations about promoting 
savings accounts  which basically say that they should communicate offers in a fair, clear 
and not misleading way.
I agree that its not part of a branchs role to call customers with details of any limited offers 
which may or may not be appropriate for them  thats not part of their job. And  in Mr Ms 
complaint, he doesnt say that the branch committed to calling him  just that he asked if it 
was possible to let him know if a new ISA was to be released. And - in todays world, 
customers are advised by mail, email, text messages and websites in order to learn of offers 
and make decisions. So  thats how Ive looked at Mr Ms complaint. 
In the letter he received from Yorkshire  the main text offered him a reinvestment in an ISA 
at 0.6% AER, fixed for one year. I can see that it also said, To find out more about our other 
savings opportunities please: Visit your local branch; speak to your Relationship Manager; 
Go to cbonline.co.uk/saving or uk.virginmoney.com/savings. So  the letter did invite Mr M 
to look further and gave instructions where to go for it. I suspect that Mr M didnt have a 
relationship manager  and, he did visit the branch and he said he was told there may be 
new offer soon. So  from Yorkshires letter - that left the website to consider.
Yorkshire said the offer wasnt included in the maturity letter to Mr M as it wasnt available 
when the letters were sent out. I must say I find it odd that Yorkshire didnt know about the 
upcoming offer  when the letter was sent on 30 October 2020. But equally, it looks like this 
was always going to be a time-limited offer to attract new savers to Yorkshire, rather than for 
existing savings to be transferred to it. Thats their commercial decision to make  and we 
cant interfere with that.
Looking at the Yorkshire Bank website  we asked Yorkshire about this. They told us it was 
set up to redirect customers looking for an ISA to Virgin Money. They showed us how it 
looked at the time. It said: our ISAs have moved or Other products and services are 
available at Virgin Money. Find out more. [link to Virgin Money]. So  Mr M would have to 
navigate across to another companys website  and there he wouldve seen the Exclusive 
offer. I accept that this wouldve taken some work to do  but the information was available.
Mr M said he googled for ISAs at the time  and the Exclusive ISA didnt appear. We 
asked Yorkshire about this  and they dont keep data about google searches. But  they 
did show us a copy of the Moneyfacts website  and the offer appeared there, so I assume 
that there was information about the offer in general circulation on search websites. 
So  Yorkshire say that the Exclusive offer wasnt available when it wrote to Mr M on 30 
October 2020. And it wasnt. So  they couldnt be expected to tell Mr M about something 
that wasnt then available. And  in the letter sent to Mr M, it directed him to other offers, 
which wouldve included the Exclusive offer. As did the Yorkshire website at the time. I cant 
comment on whether the offer did appear in Mr Ms web searches at the time - as thats not 
within the power of Yorkshire to influence and we cant therefore hold them to account for 
that. Overall - in all honesty  I dont think Yorkshire made it particularly easy or simple for 
Mr M to find out about the offer  but the main point is that they did provide the necessary 
information about it - and so they did comply with the regulations.
And so, on balance and in the circumstances of this case, I am not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman