DRN-1770898
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs B say The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold them the 
PPI. It covered Mr B, in case he lost his job.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
After careful thought, I have decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
It looks like Mr and Mrs B were offered a choice about what kinds of insurance theyd like. 
The essential information document they signed says they were told that these were 
optional. Their mortgage application records that they chose unemployment cover for Mr B, 
and Mr and Mrs B signed the application to confirm their choices. They also signed and 
submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately to applying for the lending itself, and 
they paid for the policy with a separate direct debit  the PPI was not part and parcel of the 
mortgage. The PPI was not a condition of the mortgage offer either. Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Britannias sales process from the time, nor any evidence to show that Mr or 
Mrs B were misled into taking PPI. So I think its most likely that Britannia made it clear 
Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the policy, and that they chose to take it at the time  
though I can certainly understand if they no longer remember doing so after so many years.
Britannia didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. It did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information they needed to decide if 
it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Britannia gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the policy, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time, it looks like Mr B was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and was not 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr B had cover for accidents and illnesses, Im afraid thats not relevant here, as the 
PPI he bought was to cover unemployment only. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his 
existing redundancy entitlements, and covered him for around three times as long. And it 
meant he could effectively protect his savings and investments and use them for other 
things, rather than potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save another. I do understand 
that Mr B felt secure in his role and industry, but redundancies can and do happen even in 
jobs that feel secure at the time. And this mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment  there was no guarantee that Mr B would have the same benefits, savings, or 
sense of job security in the many years to come. Ultimately, if Mr and Mrs B had fallen behind on their mortgage payments, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve been 
useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, and the first 
year was free. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs B could cancel the 
policy at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to 
have put them off taking out the cover.
This means Britannia doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Britannia has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
Britannia got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Britannia didnt 
tell them, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Britannia has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Britannia has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Britannia should also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
That means Britannia should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra they paid each month 
because the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Britannia should also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, 
then I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman