DRN-2666136
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt inform him that his interest free 
period was coming to an end.
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card account with Tesco in November 2017 and received an interest 
free period of 30 months. Mr S was informed by a Tesco representative that hed be sent an 
email to notify him when the interest free period was due to end, and he also read on the 
Tesco website that he would be sent an email shortly before the interest free period ended.
In May 2020, Mr S realised that interest had begun to be charged on his account. Mr S 
wasnt happy about this as he hadnt received an email telling him that his interest free 
period was due to end. So, he raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mr Ss complaint. But they felt that they had provided notice to Mr S that his 
interest free period was due to end, both via a letter issued in April 2020 and also via 
information attached to Mr Ss March 2020 account statement. So, they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Tesco had provided 
fair notice to Mr S that his interest free period was ending, so they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, especially as he had never received the letter in April 2020 to 
which Tesco referred. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr S feels strongly about this complaint, and hes explained to this service that 
he had kept money aside in a separate account to clear the balance on his Tesco account 
before interest became payable.
Mr S has referenced information provided by Tesco on their website which reads as follows:
When does my 0% rate finish?
You will be advised on the length of your introductory period when you take out your 
new card of a 0% rate on an existing card.
We will also notify you on your monthly statement two months prior to your 0% rate 
expiring.
Then 22 days prior to your 0% rate ending, we will send you an email to confirm this.
Tesco have advised this service that they did send the email to Mr S, 22 days prior to his 0% 
interest rate ending. But Mr Ss complaint is based on his not receiving this email. Having 
reviewed all of the information I have available here, I can find no reason to doubt the 
testimony of either party. Tesco have provided information to this service which appears to 
confirm that this email was sent, but equally I have no reason to doubt Mr S when he says 
the email was never received.
Its also notable that there has been some confusion as to whether Mr S was sent an email 
or a letter in the post, and Mr S has received conflicting information from Tesco about this. 
And Mr S has confirmed that he hasnt received the communication in question in any form, 
be it letter, email, or other.
However, while I can understand Mr Ss frustration that he hasnt received the notification 
that he was expecting, I feel that the focus on this one particular email obscures the wider 
picture here.
Mr S has requested a full reimbursement of the interest charged on the account on the basis 
that Tesco failed to provide notice that the interest free period was ending in the manner that 
they advised that they would. But the email that Mr S refers to here was only one of several 
notifications regarding the interest free period that Tesco did provide. 
Returning to the information referred to by Mr S, and quoted above, Mr S was made aware 
of the length of the interest free period by Tesco at the time that the period began. As such, 
it was always the case that the interest free period would end in May 2020, and this 
information has been available to Mr S throughout the entire interest free period.
Tesco also provided additional confirmation that the interest free period was coming to an 
end on Mr Ss March 2020 statement. Mr S has explained to this service that he only uses 
the Tesco mobile app to monitor his account. And while the mobile app doesnt provide 
information about the interest rate or when any interest free period is due to end, this 
information was available to Mr S via other channels, and it doesnt feel fair to me to censure 
Tesco on the basis that Mr S chose not to use these other channels.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. And while I have been unable to confirm definitively that the email that 
Mr S is concerned about here was sent to his e-mail address, Im also equally unable to 
confirm that it wasnt sent. 
But I am satisfied that Tesco provided Mr S with sufficient notice of the length of his interest 
free period via other means, as explained above, and so I wont be upholding this complaint 
or asking Tesco to take any further action here on that basis.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman