DRN-2665423
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR)
are charging them a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim they said
they hadnt authorised FTR to make.
For ease of reading Ill just refer to Mr N in my decision.
What happened
Mr N said he went onto FTRs website 3 August 2019 to look into a free PPI check. But said
he didnt proceed with using FTRs services to progress a claim. And hadnt signed any of
their forms. On 28 August 2019 he submitted a PPI claim through another website, and
theyd confirmed theyd submitted his claim.
In September 2019, Mr N said FTR messaged him to say that PPI had been found and he
needed to complete further paperwork, but he hadnt done this.
Between December 2019 and February 2020 Mr N said he was told by his lender Ill call R
that hed several successful PPI claims. But shortly afterwards he was asked by FTR to pay
their success fees.
Mr N said he didnt sign any documents and the signature on FTRs letter of authority (LoA)
wasnt his. And as hed made his PPI claims directly with his lender FTRs fees werent
justified. He complained to FTR.
FTR said Mr N had signed their LoA on 3 August 2019, and theyd notified him that PPI had
been found. His lender had accepted the signature as being his. FTR also said Mr N hadnt
cancelled his agreement with them. FTR said theyd submitted his PPI claims and these had
been successful, so theyd asked Mr N to pay their fee.
Mr N wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think FTRs website had been clear that theyd submit a PPI claim if
PPI was found after the free check was made. And FTR hadnt provided evidence to show
Mr N had signed the LoA. She said FTRs fees werent justified.
FTR didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 that said:
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr N has questioned the signature and said FTR has in some way falsified the records
theyve shown to us. But it isnt our role to consider whether there has been fraudulent
activity, such as a forged signature that would be for a criminal court to decide. Were an
informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were
impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story
because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given.
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my decision on what I
think most likely happened.
In making my decision I need to determine whether Mr N had authorised FTR to act on his
behalf. And if he had, whether they knew he no longer wanted them to work for him. And to
see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr N.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for several of Mr Ns
lenders including lender R in early August 2019. The personal details in this application
correlate with the personal details Mr N has given this service. Mr N doesnt dispute he
started to complete the on line application but doesnt agree that he signed and submitted it.
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR has shown the screens Mr N would have
gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement.
The *Free PPI check  in this wording was bolded in red and the asterix linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Mr N about his personal details and his lenders.
So, on balance I think Mr N completed the on-line form as the information provided was
specific to him. On completing the application, a LoA would be generated, populated with
this information. I know Mr N is disputing the signature was his, but the form could only be
submitted once a signature was added.
Our investigator did compare the signature on the form to documents provided by Mr N. But
we arent handwriting experts. And the signature provided is digital, not a wet signature. Mr
Ns lenders accepted the signature on the forms. So as I think Mr N completed the online
application Ive no reason to doubt he signed the application before its submission.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the
LoA Mr N had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
Following the on-line submission, FTR sent Mr N an email the same day, 3 August 2019 that
said:
Thanks for requesting a Free PPI Check. From the information you have provided, we have
already started processing your PPI Check. We've sent your Authority to Act forms to the
parent companies of the lenders you selected (copies attached) and now await theirresponses. Please note, the documents attached to this email are for your reference only,
you do not need to return them to us.
I know Mr N has said that some of FTRs emails had gone into his junk mail and he hadnt
read them. But I cant hold FTR responsible for Mr N not reading emails sent to him.
And I think this email is clear that FTR had started Mr Ns PPI check and the 14 day cooling
off period would therefore have begun. This would have meant Mr N had up to 17 August
2019 to cancel his agreement. But I havent seen any evidence that he did this.
FTRs website is clear that once PPI is found the free PPI check period ends. So, Ive looked
at the notifications sent by FTR to Mr N.
On 5 September 2019, FTR sent a message to Mr N:
You HAVE Paid PPI Claim Your PPI Refund NOW!
And signposted him to a PPI questionnaire. Mr N said he never completed the
questionnaire. But the message also said:
Please note: you may be unable claim a PPI refund unless you have completed the PPI
questionnaire
The message doesnt say that FTR wouldnt be able to progress Mr Ns claim. And I think if
Mr N was certain he hadnt asked FTR to work for him, he could have taken this opportunity
to ask FTR about their involvement. I can see throughout September 2019, FTR messaged
Mr N several times about his claim and completing the PPI questionnaire. And in November
2019, they updated him about the lenders delayed response to PPI claims due to the
volume of claims. And the impact this would have on his complaints.
The agreement maynt have been formalised according to Mr N, but its not enough that he
simply disengaged from the process to consider this as him cancelling his agreement with
them. I cant see any evidence that despite opportunities for Mr N to speak to or get in touch
with FTR, it wasnt until after his claim was successful that he questioned their involvement.
Mr N has said he had an acknowledgement, dated 10 September 2019, from lender R to
say they were looking at his PPI claim. And that he took this to be as a result of the claim
hed made direct to them on 28 August 2019. But this acknowledgement was also sent to
FTR.
And I can see that lender R in their letter to Mr N about the outcome of his PPI claim said:
You originally raised your concerns when Fast Track Reclaim contacted us to complain.
The details of your complaint have been taken into consideration as part of my
investigation.
And I can see lender R notified both Mr N and FTR about the outcome of the claims. I think
this shows they saw FTR as being Mr Ns representative. So, Im satisfied Mr N had
authorised FTR to act on his behalf. And the success of Mr Ns claim was based on the PPI
enquiry made by FTR.
The agreement Mr N had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And as outlined above thefee FTR charged was made clear on the on-line screen information.
I know Mr N will be disappointed with my decision. But I think hed authorised FTR to act on
his behalf and he hadnt cancelled that agreement before his claim was successful. I can see
Mr N was unhappy about FTR chasing him for their fees but as I think their fee is justified I
cant say theyve acted unfairly.
Responses to my provisional decision
FTR had no further comments to make.
Mr N accepted the outcome of the provisional decision, but reiterated hed not read the 
notification emails from FTR as it had gone into his junk mail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ns frustration as he says he didnt see the emails. But as I explained in 
my provisional decision, I cant hold FTR responsible for him not reading the email 
notifications they sent to him.
So, Im satisfied Mr N authorised FTR to act on his behalf to pursue his claim for PPI. And 
Mr N hadnt cancelled his agreement with them.
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman