DRN-4088423
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK plc did not do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr V was the victim of an investment scam. He was contacted by a broker who advised him 
to invest in cryptocurrency. On 16 July 2021 and 17 July 2021, he transferred £2,950 and 
£2,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as E using a Visa debit card 
connected to his Santander accounts. The broker asked him to first purchase cryptocurrency 
through E and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet in his name. 
Mr V contacted Santander when he discovered hed been the victim of a scam, but it told 
him it was unable to refund the money or issue a chargeback request under Visas 
chargeback scheme. Mr V wasnt satisfied and so he complained to Santander about the 
fact it had failed to raise a chargeback request. But Santander said Mr V had responded to a 
text message confirming the transaction was genuine and that it couldnt submit a request 
under Visas chargeback scheme. Consequently, it didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained the fact the broker 
had given his access to a trading portal made the investment seem genuine and he argued 
that Santander shouldve identified the fraudsters and demanded repayment. Mr V also said 
that even though the transactions werent unusual or suspicious, they shouldve flagged on 
Santanders systems as it would have known investments involving cryptocurrency were 
suspicious. He believes that if Santander had intervened, he wouldnt have lost the money. 
Finally, Mr V also complained about Santanders failure to raise a chargeback request.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She accepted Mr V authorised 
the transactions and explained Santander couldnt reasonably be expected to stop and 
check every payment.  She explained shed reviewed Mr Vs statements and didnt think they 
shouldve triggered Santanders systems or that Santander shouldve intervened. She also 
said that, while payments for goods and services can sometimes be recovered through a 
chargeback process, Mr V had paid a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company, so a 
chargeback was unlikely to succeed.
Mr V has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He maintains the 
payments were unusual and suspicious and that Santander should have protected his funds. 
Hes said a payment hed made in February 2022 from different account had been blocked 
and that should have been done on this occasion. He has also argued that Santander could 
have recovered his money through the chargeback process and that it was Santanders 
responsibility to trace the scammers details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear Mr V has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he feels 
strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain 
why. 
Im satisfied Mr V authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr V is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover Mr Vs payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander) acted fairly and reasonably 
when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr 
V).
Mr Vs own testimony supports that he used a cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate the 
transfers to E. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments and its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have 
been able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Vs 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Santanders 
decision not to raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange 
companies was fair.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr V didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Santander is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Santander had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr V when 
he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect Santander to intervene with a view to protecting Mr V from financial harm due to 
fraud. The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Santanders systems. Ive considered the nature 
of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr V 
normally ran his account and I dont think they were. Both payments were to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company and none of them were for particularly large amounts, 
nor were they out of character for the usual spending on the account. So, I dont think 
Santander missed an opportunity to intervene.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr V 
has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Santander is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman