DRN-3975504
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as B, has complained about certain underwriters at 
Society of Lloyds handling of a claim for cover under its Global Business Protector, Group 
Injury, Illness and Business Travel insurance policy. 
Mr M, as a director of B, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr M is also represented in 
this complaint but for ease, I will refer to Mr M or B throughout.
What happened
B is a travel company, specialising in sending groups of volunteers from schools and 
charities abroad. In August 2020, B made a number of claims under the policy with the 
underwriters, for the amounts it had to refund customers for trips that had to be cancelled as 
a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The underwriters accepted claims for those amounts that B had refunded its customers 
where B had made non-refundable payments to third party service providers for the same 
amounts. However, the underwriters said they do not accept Bs loss of profits for these 
cancelled trips, or the windfalls that would occur if it paid the total value of the refunds B had 
made; or the claims for sums paid by B to third parties, where it is not required to refund the 
customer the same amount, as B would not have suffered a loss in those circumstances. 
The underwriters have calculated the loss covered for the period 24 March to 31 July 2020 
(the indemnity period) as being just under £34,000, whereas B says it should have been 
around £295,000. 
The underwriters also made some payments to Bs customers who made direct claims under 
the policy, as insured persons. The underwriters said the total indemnity limit (of £100,000 
per policy year) applies to both those claims and claims by B. 
All the claims (from B and its customers) were dealt with according to the policy year that the 
trips were first notified to the underwriters, rather than the policy year in which they were 
cancelled. 
For the policy year 2017-2018, the underwriters paid B approximately £19,000; for 2018- 
2019 it paid approximately £2,100; and for 2019-2020 it paid approximately £12,500 (so a 
total of approximately £34,000). 
The underwriters also paid approximately £45,000 to Bs customers in the policy year 2018 
to 2019; and approximately £84,000 in the policy year 2019-2020. 
B is very unhappy with this. Mr M has made a number of submissions in support of his 
complaint. I have considered everything he has said but have summarised the main points 
below: 
Bs customers are insured persons but B is the only policyholder and the only entity 
with the right to make claims. Insured persons can notify a claim but there is nothing 
in the policy which suggests that losses suffered by an insured person, as opposed 
to the insureds losses, are covered at all. It is not the customers that are indemnified 
under this policy at all and once that is realised, all arguments fall away. It is only B 
that is entitled to benefit from the payments claimed under the cancellation section of 
cover in the policy. 
The cover provides indemnity for advance, payments, deposits and other charges 
which are not payable but which will not be used. This is wide enough to include all 
sums paid to B by its customers; these sums have not and will not be used and they 
become payable under contract because B is obligated by contract to refund monies 
paid to it by customers (for third party services, its own profit etc) where it has 
cancelled the trip.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 mean that B 
was bound to provide a full refund to all customers that it had to cancel trips for but 
not those who chose of their own volition to cancel trips before 18 March 2020. The 
indemnity received from the underwriters would simply put it back in the position it 
was in before those monies were paid. 
It has claimed only for cases where it has made a full refund, including its own profit 
element, so there is no possibility of double indemnity as suggested by the 
underwriters. 
It has not claimed where customers are not entitled to a refund from B. The 
underwriters chose to pay out to some of those insured persons that didnt get a 
refund, when the policy in fact excludes cover where a customer has chosen to 
cancel the trip of their own volition. It is not fair therefore to use these amounts 
against the annual limit of indemnity.
There were considerable delays in the underwriters handling of the claim and it 
ignored its request for an interim payment in March 2021.
The underwriters instructed solicitors to deal with the claim from the outset, which 
meant B had to also instruct solicitors incurring unnecessary costs.
The underwriters have also made a number of points, again I have considered everything 
they have said but have summarised the main points below: 
The policy is a group travel policy, normally sold to businesses to cover its 
employees while travelling for business. 
B is straining the wording of the policy to produce a commercially unreasonable 
result and which would generate unearned windfalls for B.
B is trying to claim for payments it has made to customers, rather than payments it 
has made to third party service providers on behalf of its customers. There is nothing 
in the policy that suggests cover for Bs liability to make refunds to its customers. 
The policy covers advance payments made for travel, or travel arrangements but 
which are lost and unused. This means payment made by the insured person, which 
become forfeit or payable under contract for goods or services which have not been 
or will not be used. So in the context of a travel policy and in the ordinary meaning of 
the terms involved, this means it covers the person who made payment to a third 
party service provider for travel services and cannot recover that payment from the 
third party service provider or remains liable to make the payment to the third party 
service provider, notwithstanding the cancellation. 
In addition, any profit or Bs costs would not form any part of a payment that has not 
been or will not be used. That is outside the scope of a travel cancellation policy and 
could have been insured separately under a business interruption policy. 
B is claiming the entire amount of refunds it has had to make to customers including 
where it had not yet made payment to a third party service provider, that it would 
have had to if the trips had gone ahead  so it will retain the cost of the trip which is an unfair windfall. This is a clear violation of the indemnity principle. 
B has also claimed for amounts which it has paid to third party service providers in 
circumstances where the customer has cancelled the trip and B is not obligated to 
refund the monies paid to it, which is also in violation of the indemnity principle, as it 
would never have been entitled to the monies payable to the third party. And as the 
insured person is entitled to recover the costs under this scenario it would lead to the 
absurd scenario of the underwriters paying out to the customer and B. 
The policy terms do not apply to payments in the hands of B which it has to refund. If 
it paid the £295,000 that is being claimed, this is far in excess of the usual gross 
profit B would have ordinarily made in the three-month period. The underwriters, 
however, accepted there was some delay in dealing with the claim and offered £200 
compensation for this and also agreed to pay interest on the interim payment 
requested by B in February 2021 and not paid until June 2021. 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in January 2023, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
The policy is a group travel policy, with B named as the insured. The policy also 
provides cover to insured persons, which it defines as any person covered by this 
Policy as stated in the Schedule. 
The policy schedule says that insured persons are all persons travelling on behalf of 
the Insured including whilst carrying out volunteer work. 
Both B and the underwriters agree that Bs customers would be insured persons 
under the policy. I also agree with that. 
The policy sets out certain obligations with regard to disclosure of material 
information and actions required of insured persons and makes clear that an insured 
person can notify a claim. Any such person insured under a group policy would also 
have to the right to bring a complaint to us about the handling of that claim, as a 
person for whose benefit the contract of insurance was taken out. 
The policy provides cover for a number of events which might happen while someone 
is on a trip away from home, including: personal accident, medical expenses, loss of 
property and money as well as cancellation, curtailment or rearrangement expenses 
incurred as a result of an event outside the insured persons control. 
The cancellation, curtailment and rearrangement expenses section says: 
If an insured persons travel plans during the Operative time have been cancelled, 
curtailed or rearranged as a direct result of any cause outside the Insureds or 
Insured Persons control, the underwriters will pay the Insured up to an amount not 
exceeding the sum insured stated in the Schedule for: 
1. Advance payments, deposits and other charges which havent been, and will not 
be used but which become forfeit or payable under contract; or
2. Additional travel and accommodation expenses; 
3. £25 per day or part thereof up to a maximum of ten (10) days in the event of an 
insured person attending jury service in their usual country of domicile. 
The exclusions under this section of cover include where an insured person has 
decided of their own volition not to travel, or continue to travel.B says this section of cover does not confer any right to indemnity to the insured 
person and it is only B that has a right to claim under this section of cover. I do not 
agree that this is a reasonable interpretation, and this simply isnt how travel 
insurance policies like this work. 
The policy covers advance payments which havent been used and which become 
forfeit or payable under contract. It does not make any reference to refunds from B. 
In addition, the cover under all sections of cover are for events that could cause a 
loss to the insured persons directly rather than to B (e.g. personal injury of the 
insured person, loss of the insured persons baggage etc). All the sections of cover 
also refer to payment in settlement of any claim being paid to the insured (i.e. B) but 
as the underwriters have said, this would be simply as bare trustee on behalf of the 
insured persons. It does not in my opinion render any entitlement to B to retain the 
benefit of such monies. It would be absurd in my view to accept that B has the sole 
insurable interest in any personal injury or lost baggage claim payment due to an 
insured person and therefore the right to any such payment under that or other 
similar sections of cover. The absolute right to the monies payable under the policy, 
in most circumstances, lies with the insured persons. I think this applies to the 
cancellation section of cover just as it does with the other sections, in respect of any 
monies which the insured persons themselves have paid for. 
I also agree with the underwriters submission that to seek to extend this cover to all 
refunds made by B, so including parts of the refund that would be profit or payments 
that B had not yet made to third parties would not be simply indemnifying actual loss 
but would be an unfair windfall for B. It would also not be putting B back in the 
position it was in before the insured event (i.e. cancellation of the trip) as it would 
mean it would keep monies for third party activities which had not necessarily been p
assed on. 
So while the cancellation section says it will pay the insured any settlement under 
that section, it does not mean in my opinion that it is only B that has a right to 
indemnity under this section of cover. In my opinion, it is sufficiently clear that the 
cover is also for any payments made by the insured persons, which cannot be 
recovered for any parts of the trip which will not take place.
Ive considered the analysis of claims made provided by the underwriters in a letter 
dated 6 November 2021, setting out how it has calculated the settlement offered. I 
see nothing unreasonable in what it has done and am satisfied that it has calculated 
the claims in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
As I consider that the policy covers Bs customers, I also consider the limit of 
indemnity for cancellation of £100,000 per policy year applies to all claims made by B 
and its customers. However, I cant see that this has made a difference to the 
settlements paid to B.
Other matters 
I do not think the appointment by the underwriters of solicitors to act as its agent in 
considering the claim was fundamentally unreasonable. Due to the number of claims 
that were made as a result of the pandemic, many insurers had to appoint agents to 
help manage claims. I do not think this meant B was compelled to instruct its own 
solicitors. 
There were some delays in dealing with the claim and in making an interim 
payment. The underwriters already agreed to pay £200 compensation and interest on the interim payment to reflect this.
I can only consider and make an award that recognises the impact of any 
wrongdoing by a financial business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the 
eligible complainant is a limited company, rather than any individual. A limited 
company cannot suffer distress or frustration. I can however, consider any 
inconvenience caused to B. Having considered everything, I think the offer already 
made by the underwriters is reasonable compensation for what happened here and 
do not intend to require them to make any other payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted considered before I issued my final decision on the matter. 
B does not accept my provisional decision but has not added anything further. 
The underwriters have not responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings, set out above. I therefore remain of the opinion that the underwriters 
have dealt with Bs claims fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms. I also 
remain of the opinion that the offer of compensation and interest already made was fair 
compensation for the delays on the underwriters part. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman