DRN-1577651
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MBNA Limited unfairly registered a default on her credit file, in 
connection with her credit card account.
What happened
MBNA wrote to Mrs M because shed missed payments on her credit card account. But she 
says she didnt receive the letters. MBNA eventually took steps to default the account. Mrs M 
considered this was unfair because the default was registered before the minimum payment 
date shown on her last statement.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that MBNA 
sent a default notice to Mrs M at her correct address in June 2019, and that subsequent 
letters were sent to her about the status of her account. The investigator was also satisfied 
that MBNA had tried to assist Mrs M when it became aware of her financial difficulties.
The investigator accepted that Mrs M had eventually cleared her arrears. But as there were 
missed payments she didnt consider MBNA was wrong to default the account. 
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She said shed brought the account 
up to date in line with MBNAs timescales, and that shed wanted to avoid debt management. 
She said shed tried to contact the bank several times by phone, but had struggled to get 
through.
Mrs M said one of her other creditors had given her time to bring her account into line and 
avoid default action. So Mrs M considered MBNA should do the same.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA wrote to Mrs M about her account on 15 June 2019. It said it may take steps to 
default the account if she didnt pay the outstanding arrears by 3 July 2019. It sent a similar 
letter on 16 July 2019.
Mrs M says she didnt receive MBNAs letters. But Im satisfied they were sent to her at her 
correct address. So I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that MBNA was responsible 
for Mrs M not receiving them.
MBNAs records also show that Mrs M spoke to the bank about her account on 8 July 2019. 
She said she was aiming to pay what she owed in two instalments, and wanted to bring the 
account back up to date by 19 August. I note that Mrs M made a payment to her account on 
12 August 2019.
But this wasnt enough to fully clear the arrears, so MBNA wrote to her again on 14 
September 2019. Mrs Ms statements show that she didnt make any further payments in 
October, November or December 2019.
Mrs Ms December statement said that the minimum payment (including missed payments) 
had to reach her account by 6 January. So Mrs M considers it was unfair for MBNA to 
default the account before shed had an opportunity to clear the arrears by that date.
But the statement also said:
You have failed to make a minimum payment. Failing to make your minimum payment 
can mean you that you have broken the terms of this credit agreement and could result in us 
taking legal action against you. It could lead to your having to pay additional costs and make 
it more difficult for you to obtain credit in future.
By the time Mrs Ms December statement was sent, she was already in breach of the credit 
card agreement because shed missed the minimum payments for several months. So Im 
not persuaded that MBNA was wrong to default the account. Im satisfied that it was acting in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Ive noted what Mrs M has said about the difficulty she had getting through to MBNA on the 
phone. But as Ive already said, there is evidence that she spoke to the bank in July 2019. It 
seems she also managed to speak to it in late December 2019. So I dont think I can safely 
say that it wasnt possible for Mrs M to discuss her account with MBNA between July and 
December 2019.
Ive also noted what Mrs M has said about an account she has with a different bank. Shes 
said the other bank has given her time to put her account in order and avoid default action. 
But I can only consider the circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint about MBNA, and the terms 
and conditions that apply to her account with it. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
say that the actions of Mrs Ms other bank should also apply to MBNA. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that MBNA has done anything wrong. So I 
wont be upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman