DRN-3537240
The complaint
Mr L was unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plc s handling of his claim under his policy.
What happened
 Mr Ls car was vandalised, and he claimed under his policy with AXA for its repair.
He was unhappy that AXA charged him his policy excess of £550 and recorded the claim as 
a fault against him on the motor insurance database. He said that fault claim reduced his no 
claims discount (NCD) and made his premiums increase. He felt this was unfair when it 
wasnt his fault. He wanted AXA to reimburse his excess, reinstate his NCD , remove the 
fault claim from the motor insurance database, and reimburse the increased premium hed 
had to pay due to the fault claim against him. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
AXA hadnt acted unfairly. Mr L didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA didnt dispute that Mr Ls cars damage was caused by vandalism by someone 
unknown and who hadnt been caught, despite police involvement. But AXA explained that 
because the person responsible for the vandalism couldnt be found, there was no one for 
them to recover their claim costs from. In that situation, a claim would be recorded as fault 
and this was normal industry practice. As the investigator explained to Mr L, this is indeed 
industry wide practice when an insurer cant recover, from the person responsible, the costs 
which they pay out on a claim. So I dont think that AXA have been wrong to do that. Though 
I can see how that must be frustrating for Mr L, particularly when he reported it to the police 
and helped them with their investigation. 
He also said that if hed known at the start what would happen he wouldnt have made a 
claim but would have paid for the damage repair himself as it was under £1,000. However I 
notice that AXAs costs also include car hire of almost £800 and recovery and other costs of 
over £250, so Im not persuaded that he would have acted differently even if hed understood 
at outset the consequences of AXA not being able to recover these costs. And I dont think 
AXA were under any obligation to explain it to him then. 
Mr L felt that his policy was comprehensive and didnt say that vandalism wasnt covered, 
which meant that it should be covered. But Mr Ls policy did cover him for vandalism, and 
AXA did deal with his claim. They did repair his car and provide him with a hire car . His 
complaints have only arisen because there was no one else for AXA to recover their costs 
from. 
His policy says on page 5 that excess is The amount you must pay towards any claim even 
if the incident is not your fault.  Again this is normal practice. Every policyholder has to pay 
their own excess on any claim, regardless of who is at fault. But if there is a third party 
responsible then they may be able to claim it back from that person. The problem is that 
there isnt an identified third party responsible in Mr Ls case.  
Mr L also pointed to policy wording which he said showed that he didnt have to pay his 
excess or lose any NCD if he werent to blame. But Ive checked his policy wording and that 
only applies where the damage is caused by an uninsured driver in an accident, and the 
policyholder is was not at fault and can give AXA the make model and registration number of 
the other car involved. This is because if theres an uninsured driver of an identifiable car, 
AXA may be able to reclaim their costs from an organisation set up to compensate in 
situations of uninsured driving. But that isnt the case here, where Mr Ls car was damaged 
by someone unknown and theres no identifiable person, car, insurer, or other body for AXA 
to claim against. 
Mr L says in the past he had a vandalism claim and his then insurer didnt treat him this way. 
And that he has since taken out insurance with a new insurer which covers vandalism and 
has seen online that other insurers say their policyholder wont be held at fault for vandalism.
But I cant comment on what other polices might say. Mr L is insured with AXA and is subject 
to their policy terms . And I can only repeat that its normal industry practice for a fault claim 
to be recorded against the policyholder in Mr Ls situation. Similarly, its normal for an insurer 
to reduce an NCD on a fault claim, and Mr Ls policy schedule made that clear. 
I can see that Mr L is upset that his car was damaged through no fault of his own, yet he 
feels that AXA are treating him as if he had had hit someone elses car. I do see that must 
be distressing. But I dont think AXA have acted unfairly and they are required to record 
claims information as they have.  For that reason I dont require them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
