DRN-4187059
The complaint
Mr C complains Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly approved a Conditional 
Sale agreement which he couldnt afford. 
What happened
On 9 January 2019, Mr C entered into a Conditional Sale agreement with Moneybarn for a 
used car. The cash price was £4,100 and the total amount repayable was £8,245.84 with 
equal monthly repayments of £139.76 for 59 months. The APR was 37.7%. 
Mr C is represented in his complaint. His representatives contacted Moneybarn to complain 
about the lending decision on 31 October 2022. The representatives explained Mr C had five 
accounts which had been active in the three-month period leading up to the lending decision. 
They also explained there had been four accounts defaulted and the debts had been passed 
to debt recovery companies and were still being paid off by Mr C at the time of the lending. 
Also, after entering the agreement and from September 2019, Mr C went on to make thirty 
late payments on other credit accounts. So, they said Moneybarn should not have provided 
additional finance.
Moneybarn responded and didnt uphold the complaint. It said it carried out a full credit 
search, independently verified Mr Cs monthly income with a credit reference agency and 
used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate Mr Cs disposable income. It said it 
also considered ongoing monthly borrowing and Mr C had confirmed he had stable 
employment. Also, it did have information about the defaults, but these had occurred more 
than 18-months before the agreement. It said the checks were proportionate and the 
information showed the agreement was affordable to Mr C. So, it didnt agree the lending 
decision had been irresponsible. 
Our investigator set out their view that Moneybarns checks hadnt been reasonable and 
proportionate because it didnt do enough to establish Mr Cs accurate expenditure. 
However, she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld on the basis that had 
Moneybarn carried out reasonable and proportionate checks it seems Mr C would have been 
able to sustainably make the repayments. Mr Cs representatives confirmed they didnt 
agree with the view. So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks? 
Moneybarn were required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Mr Cs ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focused and 
proportionate. What is considered proportionate will vary depending on the circumstances, 
such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the monthly repayments, 
the term of the agreement and the consumers specific circumstances. 
Moneybarn said it completed a full credit search. It hasnt provided a copy of the results of its 
search. However, Ive considered Mr Cs credit file to see the information it was likely to have 
seen at the time of the agreement. I can see Mr C had four defaults between April and July 
2017. The total defaulted amount was around £1,600. Mr C had also taken out seven 
payday loans between July 2018 and December 2018 which he settled on time. 
Moneybarn said it independently verified monthly income of £1,500 with a credit reference 
agency. On the application Mr C said he was in full time employment as a supervisor. It said 
the check confirmed the credit money equal to net monthly income was received into Mr Cs 
bank account over a reasonable period. It also said it considered if the income was generally 
in line with the stated occupation. 
Moneybarn also explained it used statistical data from ONS to estimate Mr Cs disposable 
income and non-discretionary expenditure. From this, it calculated his disposable income as 
being around £410.
However, I dont agree these were reasonable or proportionate checks to verify Mr Cs 
expenditure. Im mindful Mr C had adverse information on his credit file which fell within two 
years of the agreement. This shows he had previously experienced financial difficulty. 
Therefore, the statistical data was less likely to provide an accurate picture of Mr Cs 
financial circumstances and disposable income. For these reasons, Moneybarn should have 
been prompted to carry out further checks.
Having thought carefully about the information Moneybarn gathered, I dont agree it 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. Moneybarn had information 
about Mr Cs adverse credit history. In the circumstances, I think Moneybarn should have 
done more to establish Mr Cs accurate monthly committed expenditure and disposable 
income to ensure the repayments were affordable and sustainable. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C would be able to repay 
the agreement without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation? 
Ive considered what reasonable and proportionate checks would have looked like in the 
circumstances and whether its likely to have been clear to Moneybarn that the agreement 
was affordable and sustainable. I think these checks should have included asking Mr C 
about his committed expenditure, and depending on what was said, verifying this by 
obtaining further information. 
Weve received bank statements for one of Mr Cs accounts. His credit file shows he had a 
second current account, and our investigator made a reasonable request for the relevant 
statements from this account. They also asked about Mr Cs living situation at the time of the 
lending decision and information about Mr Cs committed expenditure (rent, utilities, and 
essential food shopping). Im satisfied reasonable time and opportunity has been given to Mr 
C to provide the requested information. As it hasnt been received by our service, Ive 
proceeded to make my decision based on the information I do have. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements which show some of Mr Cs expenditure in the four-month 
period leading up to the agreement. Im not saying Moneybarn needed to obtain bank 
statements as part of its lending checks. However, in absence of any further information, I 
think the bank statements will likely reflect Mr Cs financial circumstances at the time.  
Having considered the statements, I can see Mr C had an average income of around £2,150. 
This income was from his salary which was around £1,600 and supplemented by child tax credits and benefits. I can also see some regular expenses such as television, phone bill and 
gym membership. As well as some committed expenditure, including repayments towards a 
loan of around £80 and repayments towards a debt of around £90. But there are also some 
payments missing which I would expect to see. For example, contributions towards rent and 
utilities. 
Taking into account his income and expenditure as shown in the statements Ive received; 
he seems to have had around £1,100 each month to cover other essential expenditure (not 
detailed on the statements) and the repayments. The monthly repayments for this 
agreement accounted for around 12% of this amount as they were £139.76. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied the amount remaining was likely to be sufficient to cover Mr Cs other 
likely financial commitments. Im also mindful that Mr C had spending which seems to have 
been ad hoc each month and which also indicates he would have been able to make the 
repayments without significant adverse impact. 
Ive also thought about Mr Cs short-term borrowing. As mentioned, he had taken out seven 
short term loans between July 2018 and December 2018. The amounts borrowed ranged 
from £80 to £300. However, they were all paid on time. Im also mindful that 18 months had 
passed since the defaults recorded on Mr Cs credit file. Although Mr C was still making 
repayments towards the debt, he seemed to have sufficient disposable income and with the 
ad hoc spending Im not persuaded this meant Moneybarn should have concluded Mr C 
wouldnt be able to make the repayments. 
I dont have all the information which would enable me to say with certainty what Mr Cs 
financial position was at the time of the lending decision. Nevertheless, having considered 
the evidence which has been provided, Im satisfied had Moneybarn completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks, its likely it would still have concluded the agreement 
was affordable. Therefore, I dont think Moneybarn needs to do anything to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman