DRN-3970007
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE avoided her caravan insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Mrs T took out a touring caravan insurance policy with Great Lakes in January 2022. When 
her caravan was stolen from its storage location - a farm used for equestrian purposes and 
caravan storage - Mrs T tried to make a claim. 
After investigating the claim, Great Lakes said shed incorrectly answered the questions it 
asked about the security of where the caravan would be stored and access to it. Great Lakes 
considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation which entitled it to avoid her 
policy and decline her claim because of this and return the premium shed already paid.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us and the Investigator didnt think it should be upheld. This 
is because they agreed there had been a careless qualifying misrepresentation. So, they 
thought Great Lakes was entitled to avoid Mrs Ts policy and decline her claim but that it 
needed to return the premium Mrs T had paid, as it had already agreed to do.
Mrs T doesnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She says 
she answered all questions to the best of her knowledge when taking out the insurance 
policy. And the caravan was stolen from what she believed to be a secure storage site. This 
is for the following reasons.
1.There are two gates. The first is from the main road onto the site which is left open 
during the daytime and leads to a courtyard. Once on the site, there is a second gate 
which leads to the area used for caravan storage. 
2.When she paid for storage, she was led to believe the following:
a. the first gate was open during the daytime.
b. the second gate would be kept locked.
c. she needed to text the owner to open the second gate each time she wanted 
to enter.
3.The features of the land and property around the storage area  including a river, 
high wall, equestrian centre with locked gate and full skip permanently in front of it  
mean:
a. there is only one viable entry point which is through the second gate: and
b. the need for perimeter fencing is obsolete.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Great Lakes thinks Mrs T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she told it about the security of where the caravan would be stored and access to it. 
Further, it explained that even if it was able to accept there are other forms of boundary 
limiting access to the storage area, there is still a fundamental issue with the second gate. 
This is because the storage location owner told Great Lakes agent the first gate is left open 
permanently and the second gate is left open and unlocked during the day and this is the 
route taken when the caravan was stolen. 
Ive considered what Mrs T was asked when the policy was taken out. In the Statement of 
Fact, the answer to the below questions is recorded as Yes.
If your storage location is a farm, dedicated caravan storage compound or a registered 
caravan site please answer the following questions:
-Is the storage area defined by perimeter fencing and does it have limited 
access?
-Is the Caravan stored inside a secure area protected by perimeter fencing 
encompassing the entirety of the site and behind an entrance / exit gate which is 
permanently locked shut except for entry and exit purposes?                                                                                                                                                                            
These are plain and direct questions. And I consider it clear the answer to both questions 
was not Yes. This is regardless of the nature of any specific boundary features or a skip 
which, in Mrs Ts view, meant a perimeter fence wasnt necessary, and the site was secure. 
The specific details of the security features of the site needed to be declared to Great Lakes 
insurer because it was them  not Mrs T  who needed to understand the level of risk posed 
before deciding if it would provide cover.
The clear representation by Mrs T was that the caravan was kept in an area with fencing 
around it and behind a gate which was locked 24 hours a day (aside from access to and 
from the location) and it was on this basis cover was provided. Whilst Mrs T says she was 
told the second gate was only opened after access by text was requested; and she 
answered both questions correctly, Im not persuaded that this reflects the situation. And I 
dont consider I can say Mrs T answered the above questions taking reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. I say this because the storage location owner was clear when he 
told Great Lakes the first gate is permanently open, and the second gate is closed and 
locked only at night. Given this is a working equestrian business where the caravans are 
stored either side of a through access connecting parts of the site (if avoiding the main road) 
and amongst equipment for the operation and maintenance of the site, its my view its clear 
the second gate is likely to be regularly left open and unlocked for the effective operation of 
the business.Great Lakes sent us evidence of its underwriting criteria which shows it would never have 
offered cover if itd been given the correct information by Mrs T about the security to the site 
and access to it. This means Im satisfied Mrs Ts misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
If a misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless then CIDRA says its careless. Great Lakes 
have said it accepts Mrs Ts misrepresentation wasnt deliberate or reckless. And I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest otherwise so I agree with this.
As Im satisfied Mrs Ts misrepresentation should be treated as a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, Ive looked at the actions Great Lakes can take in accordance with 
CIDRA. And Im satisfied great Lakes was entitled to avoid Mrs Ts policy in accordance with 
CIDRA from the inception of the policy. As this means  in effect  her policy never existed, 
Great Lakes doesn't have to deal with Mrs T's claim following the theft of her caravan. It 
does need to refund the premium to Mrs T for the policy and I understand it has already 
done this.
Taking everything into account, the above is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint.
I understand Mrs T feels strongly about this matter and Im sorry this decision will be a 
disappointment to her. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with 
Great Lakes  can do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman