DRN-2572945
The complaint
Mr W complains that, in 2005, Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr W says that the first bank account he had in the UK was the Barclays Additions account 
PBA, which he took out in 2005. The PBA cost £4.00 each month. It came with various 
benefits including mobile phone insurance, and no interest on any overdraft agreed up to 
£100. 
In 2015 Barclays changed the way it ran the account. It transferred the insurance element of 
the account over to an insurance tech pack. That wasnt a sale, just a change in 
administration of the account. So Ive looked only at what happened in 2005.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr W didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W says he didnt speak English and that he wasnt told it was possible to take out an 
account that was fee free.  
The problem is that this all happened about 16 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember everything that happened so long ago. So it may not be fair for 
me to rely just on what they now remember as happening. And I wouldnt know whether 
the member of Barclays staff simply told Mr W that this PBA was one of the options, nor 
whether they should have realised that Mr W might not understand what was being said to 
him. 
Overall there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mr Ws complaint. It wouldnt 
be fair to make Barclays prove it didnt act wrongly  instead, fairly, I would need 
reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. And I cant say that 
there is that kind of evidence. So, I cant say that the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mr W 
now believes. 
Ive thought about whether there are other reasons for saying the PBA was mis-sold, but I 
dont think there are. I dont think Barclays recommended the PBA in the sense of 
considering Mr Ws personal circumstances and saying the PBA was a reasonable fit for 
him. Instead it had to give reasonable information for Mr W to make a decision about 
whether he wanted the PBA. 
I cant now say how well Barclays did explain the features of the PBA. But I cant see that 
full information would, anyway, have made a difference to how useful the PBA would have 
seemed to Mr W. 
Overall, I havent decided the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman