DRN-3427905
The complaint
Ms T complains The Mortgage Works (UK) plc (TMW) acted unfairly when it relied upon a 
property revaluation on her buy to let property at a figure under its true market value.  
What happened
Ms T has a buy to let mortgage (BTL) with TMW which she took out in November 2020. Ms 
T says she approached TMW to inform them she wished to sell a dilapidated garage, which 
was part of the property albeit in a separate block away from the house. Ms T says she was 
told because the property was mortgaged to TMW it would need to carry out a revaluation 
and after some delays this was eventually carried out in June 2021. 
Ms T says TMWs valuers, valued her property at the same level it was valued at over six 
months earlier, despite house prices in her area increasing. Ms T says she was told the 
revaluation meant that the sale of the garage would further reduce the property value by 
around £10,000. As a result of that any proceeds of sale would need to be used to reduce 
her BTL, to maintain the existing loan to value of around 75%. Ms T says this meant she had 
to reduce her BTL by approximately £8,000. 
Ms T says TMW initially refused her request to appeal the revaluation, but when it finally 
agreed to, it would only consider properties sold up to six months prior to the revaluation 
carried out in June 2021. Ms T says she provided various examples of properties similar to 
her own, that sold recently for considerably more than her property was valued at, and TMW 
have been unreasonable in not taking these valuations into account when making its 
decision. 
TMW says it has relied on the revaluation conducted by a suitably qualified surveyor and 
said initially it would only allow an appeal of the revaluation, if there was a change in the loan 
to value that affected its security. TMW subsequently agreed to the appeal, but the surveyor 
felt the comparable properties provided by Ms T didnt alter the revaluation report - in part as 
they were not sold six months prior to their revaluation report, which was a condition of the 
appeals process. 
Ms T wasnt happy with TMWs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator felt it wasnt unreasonable for TMW to rely on the revaluation carried out by a 
qualified surveyor. The investigator says TMW did make clear, depending on the revaluation 
figure on the property, it would be entitled to ask for a capital repayment to maintain its 
existing loan to value.
The investigator says he didnt feel TMW had been fair when it initially refused to allow Ms T 
to appeal its revaluation report provided by the surveyor and because of the inconvenience 
that caused, he asked TMW to pay Ms T £125. That said the investigator felt even if the 
appeal had been conducted earlier, it wouldnt have altered TMWs decision to ask for a 
capital repayment to reduce Ms Ts BTL. 
Ms T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms T to be told she had to reduce her BTL 
based on a revaluation of her property, which she felt hadnt taken into account increases in 
property prices locally. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if TMW acted reasonably when it accepted the 
revaluation report it instructed and if it was fair to initially refuse an appeal to that revaluation 
report, from Ms T.
Ms Ts complaint centres around her view the revaluation of her property hasnt taken into 
account other comparable properties sold locally, or the increase in house process generally 
in the local area. Ms T has provided this service with a number of examples of properties 
sold locally to her property and doesnt feel the sale of a dilapidated garage should materially 
reduce its value. 
The first thing to say here is I can only comment on whether TMW acted fairly on relying on 
the revaluation report provided to them by their appointed valuers, and not whether the 
surveyor has correctly reported on the property - that is not within the jurisdiction of this 
service.  
What I can say is, I have seen the revaluation report and the valuers instructed are TMW 
panel members with RICS membership, and the surveyor carrying out the valuation was fully 
qualified, working independently of TMW and used its own comparable properties. 
What is fair to say is property prices are subject to change dependent on market conditions 
and the timing of such sales.
Where I do have an issue, like the investigator is why TMW didnt allow Ms T to appeal the 
revaluation when she initially asked to. TMW seem now to have accepted this point and 
subsequently agreed to the revaluation appeal and I can see this was considered by the 
surveyor with the comparable evidence provided by Ms T. Unfortunately here, Ms Ts 
comparable properties were all post the revaluation report so didnt meet TMWs 
requirement of these needing to be six months prior to the revaluation report she was 
appealing. 
While Ms T may not agree, I cant say that TMW should accept comparable properties sold, 
or on the market post its revaluation date, given property prices may well have changed 
during that time. Its also fair to say TMWS criteria that any comparable properties needed 
to be six months prior to its revaluation report, was made known on the appeals 
documentation Ms T completed. 
So its fair to say, while an earlier appeal wouldnt have changed TMWs decision, it did 
cause some inconvenience to Ms T and TMW could have agreed to this sooner and I 
support the compensation suggested by the investigator. I would therefore instruct TMW to 
pay Ms T £125 for the inconvenience this has caused. While Ms T will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here.  
Putting things right
I instruct The Mortgage Works (UK) plc to pay Ms T £125 by way of compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct The Mortgage Works (UK) plc to pay Ms T £125 by way of compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman