DRN-2075058
The complaint
Mr B has complained about a whole of life policy he held provided by Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited (Aviva). He is unhappy with how much the death benefit has reduced since he 
took the policy out and he feels Aviva has mismanaged the policy.
What happened
Mr B took out the policy with Aviva in 1990. The policy was insured on the life of his wife with 
Mr B as the policy holder. At inception the policy provided a death benefit (sum assured) of 
£27,250 for a premium of £13 per month.
The policy was reviewed in line with its contract terns. It didnt fail a review at each time one 
took place but when it did Mr B was fully informed of this by Aviva and chose each time to 
keep the premiums at the same level and accept a reduced sum assured.
Mr B was prompted to raise his complaint after the review of the policy in 2019. At this point, 
as per previous failed reviews, it was found that not enough was being paid into the policy to 
maintain the (all be it reduced) death benefit. Again, he was presented with two choices  to 
keep the premiums at the same level and accept a death benefit amount of £5,991 or 
increase them to keep the death benefit at £11,959.
Mr B feels the significant reduction in the sum assured is due to more than the performance 
of the investment markets. He feels that the charges of the policy outweigh the performance 
and that Aviva has control over the policy and can decide itself what level of premiums to 
charge or what to set the death benefit at. Hes questioned whether there is any oversight of 
Aviva as he feels its actions are immoral.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
was satisfied that Aviva has administered the policy correctly and while he acknowledged 
the reduction in the value of the policy, he was satisfied this was because of the nature of 
reviewable whole of life policies.
Mr B didnt accept the assessment and remained of the view that Aviva should be held 
responsible.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr B is unhappy with the reduction in death benefit. The policy provides 
valuable life protection and he has been paying into it for more than twenty years, so finding 
out it is worth considerably less than when he initially took it out, and is continuing to 
decrease, is naturally disappointing.
However, I can only uphold the complaint if Aviva has done something wrong in 
administering the policy and having considered everything, I dont think it has.
All reviewable whole of life policies needs to be reviewed regularly or assessed to see if the 
amount being paid into it in premiums is enough to keep the death benefit at the original 
level. As part of the policy has an investment element this is dependent upon market 
performance but also charges are required to maintain the policy such as the monthly policy 
fee and annual management charges as well as taking account of the increasing cost of 
providing life cover (mortality rates). These charges and the mortality rates are standard 
across the industry, so Aviva doesnt have control or influence over this.
Following a review, if the premium cant support the level of cover then either a decrease in 
the sum assured or an increase in the premium is required. And this is what has happened 
to Mr Bs policy. And unfortunately, when the choice is made to keep premiums same and 
therefore the death benefit has to reduce, it is likely at some point the policy will run out of 
value because not enough is being paid into it to keep the death benefit at the initial level.
Ultimately this is how these types of policies work and Aviva has no control over whether 
increases in the policy premiums are required and when. It was incumbent upon Mr B to 
understand there could be a risk that the policy would lose value over the year if he didnt 
maintain or increase his premiums when he initially took the policy out. And while I 
appreciate it appears the policy is unable to provide the valuable cover when it is needed the 
most (now the life assured is older) this isnt something me or this Service can change, that 
would be something for the Regulator to look at.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman