DRN-4300933
The complaint
Mrs S was unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined her claim for a damaged 
drain and didnt repair the trench it created when trying to identify the cause.
What happened
In summary, Mrs S had plumbing and drainage insurance underwritten by Aviva. She 
claimed under the policy after noticing a bad smell in her kitchen. Aviva attended and dug a 
trench in the kitchen and hall floor to locate the area of the drain it believed to be the 
problem. Aviva stopped work suddenly because it was concerned about causing structural 
damage to the house if it continued into the floor void. It advised Mrs S to raise a claim under 
her home insurance (a different business) and effected a temporary repair to the floor.
The home insurer identified where the damage was, and its expert report concluded that the 
drain had suffered damage as a result of an ongoing cause. Previous structural work had 
caused the drain to belly and develop holes. The insurer declined Mrs Ss claim because her 
policy didnt provide cover for ongoing causes. The expert report also concluded that Aviva 
had dug the trench in the wrong area of the kitchen.
Mrs S went back to Aviva and asked it to repair both the kitchen floor and the drain. Aviva 
said its policy didnt provide cover for ongoing causes, so it also declined the claim. It offered 
Mrs S £100 by way of apology for digging the trench in the wrong part of her floor and 
reimbursed the £400 home insurance policy excess that shed paid.
Unhappy with Avivas final response, she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Aviva had fairly declined the claim for the reasons given, but she said it 
should repair the damaged floor. On further consideration, our investigator didnt think Aviva 
could rely on an exclusion which wasn't specified in the policy. She said Aviva should also 
reconsider the claim for the damaged drain.
Aviva didnt agree that it needed to reconsider the claim.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
To begin with, Ill address the issue of the damaged kitchen floor. It seems theres no dispute 
that Aviva dug the trench in the wrong place, leaving Mrs S with a floor that needed a 
permanent repair. 
Aviva offered £100 by way of apology for digging up the wrong area of her home to fix the 
drain. However, I dont think thats enough. Although Aviva did leave Mrs Ss home with a 
temporary repair, Im satisfied that Aviva shouldve paid for, or completed the work to restore 
the kitchen to its condition prior to the excavation. 
Moving on, the key issue of complaint here is that Mrs S thinks Aviva failed to carry out the 
work she could reasonably have expected under her plumbing and drainage insurance. The 
policy provided for repairs and temporary reinstatement in the event of a leak from the 
drainage pipes. But, because Aviva thought the property would suffer structural issues if it 
continued trying to access the drain, it directed Mrs S to her home insurer for a permanent 
repair.
Ive already addressed the fact that Aviva excavated in the wrong place. So, Ive thought 
carefully about whether directing Mrs S to her home insurer was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Aviva believed the problem was outside the cover it provided for Mrs S, so I 
dont think it was wrong to recommend that she seek assistance from her home insurer. 
The home insurer identified where the damage was, and its expert report concluded that the 
drain had suffered damage as a result of an ongoing cause. Its report said previous 
structural work had caused the drain to belly and develop holes. The insurer declined Mrs 
Ss claim because her policy didnt provide cover for ongoing causes. The expert report also 
concluded that Aviva had dug the trench in the wrong area of the kitchen.
If Mrs Ss home insurer had accepted the claim, Avivas liability wouldve been limited to 
making a permanent repair to the trench it dug in error. But, because the insurer declined the 
claim, Mrs S thought Aviva should pay for the work needed. However, the home insurer 
provided a copy of the survey it completed to assess the damage, and the expert opinion is 
that the damage was gradual due to bedding down of structures. 
Mrs Ss policy with Aviva also excluded cover for gradual damage, so it declined the claim.
I understand Mrs S doesnt think Aviva should rely on the home insurers report, but I dont 
agree. I think its reasonable for Aviva to rely on the report provided by the home insurers 
expert setting out the cause of the damage. Therefore, its reasonable for Aviva to decline 
cover for the same reason. Aviva is simply relying on an expert report, regardless of who it 
was originally prepared for.
Under the heading of General Exclusions, the policy sets out that it doesnt cover bedding 
down of new structures. So, I think Aviva declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy 
exclusion.
Finally, Ive thought about the compensation Aviva offered along with its payment of her 
£400 home insurance policy excess. I havent seen anything in the evidence to indicate that 
Aviva inappropriately directed Mrs S to her home insurer, so I wouldnt have required Aviva 
to pay the excess. Therefore, I think its decision to pay her £400 policy excess was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
To put matters right, I think Aviva should either complete a permanent repair to the kitchen 
floor, or cash settle the reasonable, evidenced costs of repair provided by Mrs S.I said I was intending to require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
either complete or pay for the reasonable costs of a permanent repair to Mrs Ss 
kitchen floor.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs S confirmed that shed had the repair done and provided a copy of the invoice. Because 
the repair was completed, Aviva agreed to pay the reasonable cost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs S and Aviva agreed to resolve the complaint in the way I proposed, theres no 
further evidence to consider. Therefore, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S confirmed that the repairs are complete, and she provided evidence of the costs. 
Aviva acknowledged receipt of the invoice. For completeness, Ive removed the option for 
Aviva to complete repairs. But, as this doesnt make a material difference to the outcome  it 
simply provides clarification - my final decision amounts to the same as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
pay for the reasonable costs of a permanent repair to Mrs Ss kitchen floor.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman