DRN-2318624
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC turned down his application for an account and 
unfairly registered a marker at CIFAS the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr O says that he gave Barclays correct information about where he had been living when 
he made his application. He simply forgot about a tv subscription bill in his name at his 
partners address that he hadnt paid. And he doesnt think it reasonable that Barclays has 
said he attempted application fraud. He says this marker is preventing him getting an 
account elsewhere.
Barclays said that it makes a number of checks when it considers an application. And that as 
a result Mr O didnt meet its criteria for having an account. He hadnt fully disclosed all the 
information it asked for. It had considered his complaint and the additional information Mr O 
had provided about his address history but said it hadnt made a mistake in applying the 
CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr O had relevant adverse 
credit information at an address he didnt disclose in his application to Barclays. He said that 
Mr O would need to look into records held about this himself, but this did appear to relate to 
a credit card debt. He didnt think Barclays had made an error in adding the marker. And it 
wouldnt as Mr O requested have to report this to police as fraud. 
In addition, he explored with Mr O any past names or addresses he had used. He said that 
he couldnt disclose any third-party information held about that to him. Mr O was unhappy 
about this and our investigator said he could only recommend that Mr O request information 
from credit reference agencies and CIFAS held about his past aliases and addresses. This 
would show him what other financial businesses would be considering which wouldnt just be 
what Barclays had reported about him.
Mr O didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that it was 
unreasonable that he hadnt been given all the relevant information Barclays and this service 
had seen about him. He said this must be escalated to an ombudsman prior to him 
considering court proceedings. He thought that what had been said was utter rubbish. And 
he wanted a basic bank account as he had no connection with any fraud. And it is not fair 
that Barclays can make this judgement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
This doesnt mean that Barclays has to report that to police or that any criminal proceedings 
take place as Mr O has requested. But it does mean that the bar for registering a marker is a 
high one.
I appreciate that Mr O is unhappy that neither this service nor Barclays have disclosed all the 
information thats been taken into account. Im afraid that information held by third parties on 
his credit record or say at CIFAS is something hed fairly need to request himself. And I think 
he now has a good idea how to go about getting that information and that he would need to 
look at whats held about any of his past addresses or names that hes used in the past. I 
can assure him that we look at things independently when reviewing the actions of Barclays.
Here the evidence that he has been told about relates to him having adverse credit at a 
previous address. And that the adverse information related to the period of the address 
history hed been asked for from Barclays. I dont think he really disputes that this would be 
relevant to Barclays when considering an application. And although hes provided a tenancy 
agreement for the address he said hed been living at then for it seems at least four years, 
hes had debt in his name at a different address which makes that address relevant. Our 
investigator has indicated that the nature of that debt doesnt seem to be in line with the 
explanation hed given.
Im afraid that I think Barclays had grounds to think that Mr O had attempted application 
fraud by not disclosing all the relevant information it asked for. And to think that this wasnt 
simply an oversight or mistake. So, it was entitled to decide not to offer him an account. And 
having taken everything into account I dont think its acted unfairly in registering the marker 
at CIFAS.
I fully understand what Mr O says about his difficulties in opening an account elsewhere. But 
I dont have a basis to require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman