DRN-3229398
The complaint
Mr J complains that Home Retail Group Services Limited (trading as Argos) didnt do more 
to let him know about the arrears on his account before applying a default. 
What happened
Mr J took out an Argos store card in April 2019. He has told us that prior to March 2020 he 
started work away from home on a six-moth contract. 
His account with Argos went into arrears in March 2020 and these arrears increased through 
to June 2020. Argos say they sent a letter of default to Mr Js home address on 29 June 
2020, requesting that the arrears of £93.46 were paid before 27 July 2020, or a default could 
be issued. 
Argos say that on 28 July 2020, a statement was sent to Mr J explaining that the full balance 
was now due. A default was also applied, and the debt was passed to a third party. 
Mr J was unhappy and complained to Argos. He explained he had been working away from 
home and hadnt had receipt of their letters. He said that whilst he had previously had 
access to his account online, his mobile phone had changed whilst he was away, and he 
had lost this access. He didnt think Argos had done enough to contact him and make him 
aware of the arrears and said that the default was impacting him as he looked to apply for a 
mortgage.
Argos said they had made reasonable steps to contact Mr J, sending letters as they had 
done since the account was opened. Our investigator looked into it and he thought that 
Argos had acted fairly. He said that the default had been applied fairly and the onus was on 
Mr J to ensure payments were made and the account kept up to date. 
Mr J remains unhappy. He says he has received emails from Argos relating to other issues, 
so doesnt see why they couldnt have emailed or called him regarding this. As no 
agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I reach the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr J had moved away, and that this might have been sudden, the 
responsibility for managing the account and making payments was on Mr J. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr J made Argos aware that he was moving away for a while, and 
wouldnt be in receipt of any letters they sent to his home address. 
Argos communicated the arrears and sent the default notice by letter, as it had done for 
account communications since the card was taken out. I think this was reasonable. I know 
that Mr J feels that Argos should have tried to contact him by a second means. However, 
they werent aware he wasnt receiving the letters. I havent seen anything to suggest they 
were undelivered or returned, just that Mr J wasnt home to receive them. 
Mr J has confirmed he previously had access to his account online but changed phone whilst 
he was away. However, he could have ensured he regained access. Whilst he didnt receive 
the letters, I think that Argos did enough to make him aware of the arrears and Mr J was 
aware he should have been making payments to the account. 
I also think that Argos defaulted the account fairly and in line with the account terms and 
conditions. There had been arrears for over three months, a default notice had been issued 
correctly and no further payment was made. I think this was a fair reflection of the status of 
the account. 
In summary, the responsibility to ensure the account was up to date was on Mr J. Whilst I 
appreciate he would have preferred an email or call, as well as the letter, they wrote to him 
and he could have accessed the account information online. I think they made reasonable 
attempts to contact him and have applied the default fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman