DRN-1819413
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited wont allow him to cash in his annuity in return for a 
lump sum payment.
What happened
In 2006 Mr C chose to take his benefits from his ReAssure pension fund that hed built up 
with it. Mr C chose to take a tax free cash lump sum and the remaining fund was used to 
purchase a lifetime annuity of approximately £1,400 a year.
More recently Mr C contacted ReAssure with support from his MP to enquire whether he 
could cash in the annuity as a lump sum would now be much more beneficial to him and his 
wife.
ReAssure responded twice to Mr C. In response to his complaint it said that his fund was too 
large to be cashed in as it was over the £10,000 limit. It then sent a second letter a week 
later with a more general response to the issue of cashing in annuities, in which it said it had 
decided as a business not to allow the cashing in of annuities as it believed it would 
represent poor value for customers.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think that ReAssure needed to do 
anything to put things right.
Mr C asked for a final decision as he believes it should be up to him to decide whether the 
offer represented good value to him. And he explained that sadly his wife was unwell and 
they would be much better off and comfortable with a lump sum to use now. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The focus of the correspondence in this complaint has been on ReAssures decision not to 
allow annuities to be cashed in. And whether or not it would represent value for Mr C, which 
was introduced by ReAssure with its second response. However, it seems the key part of 
this situation has become rather lost in this case.
The legislation that allows providers to cash in annuities, whether providers choose to take 
up this option or not, is for annuities valued at less than £10,000. Mr C is 70 and his annuity 
is worth approximately £1,400 a year, which means that even using the most beneficial rates 
and calculation method for Mr C here his annuity will be valued well in excess of £10,000. 
For example the very basic annuity calculator (ReAssures calculation process would be 
more complex) provided by Pension Wise which is a government advice service, shows that 
at 70, someone with a pot of £10,000, after accounting for tax free cash, would receive an 
annuity of approximately £600 a year. Whilst this is very basic and doesnt take into account 
the providers rates or the individuals circumstances other than age, it demonstrates the 
difference in the probable value of Mr Cs annuity compared to the limit in legislation. So 
even if ReAssure did allow the cashing in of annuities, because of the value of Mr Cs 
annuity, he wouldnt fit into the category of people who could be offered a lump sum in 
exchange for the annuity.
So I dont think ReAssure have been unfair or unreasonable in not allowing Mr C to cash in 
his annuity. At worst if they did allow this it could be in breach of legislation and at best it 
would be offering Mr C poor value as it cannot pay out more than £10,000.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr C. Whilst Ive said the above I can 
understand how a lump sum now might help him and his wife but I cant fairly say that 
ReAssure has done something wrong here for the reasons explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman