DRN-4031033
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the delay in Vitality Corporate Services Limited (Vitality) paying 
cashback after he cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr B purchased a car insurance policy via Vitality. For a limited part of the 
policy duration, this gave Mr B the equivalent of 25% of the premiums he paid each month in 
cashback.
On 29 July 2022 Mr B cancelled his policy as hed found a cheaper quote elsewhere and he 
asked Vitality to pay the cashback earned. However, Vitality explained that they couldnt pay 
it at that stage due to technical issues with the cashback scheme, which needed to be 
resolved first. The cashback was ultimately paid to Mr B at the end of September/beginning 
of October 2022.
Mr B is unhappy with the delay and he says Vitality should compensate him for this. So, he 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She recognised there 
was a delay, but she said this was outside Vitalitys control. And theyd made Mr B aware of 
the reasons for the delay and gave him an estimate of when it would be resolved. She said 
this was sufficient and didnt recommend Vitality do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Its not in dispute there was a delay in paying Mr B the cashback after he cancelled his car 
insurance policy. Mr B has now received that cashback.
However, Vitality was unable to do this at the time of policy cancellation due to technical 
issues with the cashback scheme, so it was an unavoidable delay. Vitality explained this to 
Mr B at the time and provided estimates of when it would be resolved to manage Mr Bs 
expectations. Vitality also apologised to Mr B for the delays.
Whilst I do recognise Mr B feels compensation is warranted, Im satisfied the delay was 
unavoidable, Vitality explained what was happening with an estimated resolution date and 
apologised for this. And Im satisfied this was sufficient in all the circumstances, so Im not 
going to direct Vitality to pay Mr B compensation.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman