DRN-3551998
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs As complaint about Objective Wealth Ltd (OW) relates to their applications for 
two mortgages; a let to buy mortgage and a standard repayment mortgage. In making the 
applications the mortgage adviser (MA) made an error resulting in there being a deficit of the 
funds requested, of around £100,000, leading to a delayed completion.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs A asked MA to help them find a suitable mortgage on a brand-new property 
they wanted to buy (BW). When they instructed MA, their existing property (FC) was already 
on the market for sale and a potential sale fall had fallen through. 
The MA discussed with Mr G and Mrs A the option of renting out FC, as the developer/seller 
of BW was exerting some pressure on them to complete the purchase and had suggested 
this as an option. Whilst not Mr G and Mrs As initial plan, they ultimately decided to let FC 
and asked MA to apply for two mortgages; one to enable them to let FC and one to purchase 
BW. The MA obtained mortgage offers for each property, but one contained an error which 
neither he nor Mr G and Mrs A spotted. The error was that in relation to the let to buy 
mortgage he had requested too little by way of the amount to be borrowed. The Suitability 
Report he prepared, and gave to Mr G and Mrs A, indicated that for the let to buy mortgage 
the monthly payment would be approximately £150, which they were happy with.
Contracts for the purchase of BW took place on 6 August 2021 with a completion date set for 
around the end of September. Four days before completion, Mr G and Mrs A spoke with MA 
as they had received a completion statement from their solicitor indicating a shortfall in the 
mortgage funds required. MA searched for alternative mortgage products and obtained two 
new offers which Mr G and Mrs A accepted, although the time taken to do this resulted in the 
completion date being postponed. That in turn led to increased costs for Mr G and Mrs A.
When the new let to buy mortgage offer was received the cost increased from £150 to over 
£900 per month. The cost of the other mortgage they were getting remained broadly the 
same. But, Mr G and Mrs A say they incurred additional expenses because of the delay, and 
they have increased mortgage costs on the let to buy mortgage going forward, which they 
feel OW should pay as it was their error which led them to this position. 
OW accepted they had made an error but argued that Mr G and Mrs A, and their solicitors, 
should bear some responsibility since should have spotted the error when the offers were 
produced. OW offered to pay one half of Mr G and Mrs As incurred expenses (totalling 
around £1,800) on the basis that they werent completely at fault, and also offered to pay 
£500 in compensation.
Mr G and Mrs A were unhappy with OWs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had been 
poor service by OW and that the offer to pay one half of the incurred expenses was 
insufficient. Our investigator thought OW should pay all of the expenses which amounted to 
£3,623. Regarding compensation for distress and inconvenience, the investigator concluded 
that £500 was a fair and reasonable. OW agreed with the investigators view but Mr G and 
Mrs A didnt and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my Provisional Decision on 26 May 2022 and Mr G and Mrs A and OW have 
responded. Both disagree with my decision, but for different reasons. OW accept the facts, 
as I have set them out to be, but feel that Mr G and Mrs A together with their solicitors ought 
to shoulder some of the responsibility for their loss. OW repeat the point, previously made, 
that the solicitors have a responsibility to ensure that there are sufficient funds in place to 
complete the proposed purchase, and they do not feel that OW are entirely at fault for a part 
of the conveyancing process over which they had no control. They repeat that Mr G and 
Mrs A ought to have seen that there was going to be a shortfall in the mortgage amount.
On that latter point, OW recognise they are the professionals and Mr G and Mrs A are not. I 
do not think the argument that Mr G and Mrs A ought effectively to have spotted OWs error 
and notified OW to prevent the problem, to have merit. OW were instructed for their 
expertise and it is entirely reasonable for Mr G and Mrs A to rely upon the advice given, even 
though in hindsight it is surprising that they did not spot the shortfall sooner. 
Regarding Mr G and Mrs As solicitors, I did say that I found it was also surprising that the 
solicitors had not pointed out the potential problem to Mr G and Mrs A. The difficulty I have in 
attempting to reach any assessment upon the culpability or otherwise of the solicitors is that 
I have no evidence as to what information they had about the transaction at the relevant 
times. I have no information as to what the solicitors were told regarding how the transaction 
was to be structured. It may well be that the solicitors have some responsibility in this matter 
but equally it may be that they have none. I also have no jurisdiction over the solicitors. 
What I am concerned with is what OW did or did not do, and it seems to me that the root 
cause of this complaint stems and flows from the mistake MA made and did not correct. Had 
it not been for that mistake, the complaint would never have arisen. OW were specifically 
instructed to advise upon the financial aspects of the transaction. It is reasonable for the 
solicitors, and indeed Mr G and Mrs A, to have relied upon their advice and to have assumed 
the financial elements were correct. I do think it surprising that the solicitors did not spot the 
potential problem earlier, but not doing so does not necessarily import any blame, and in no 
way detracts from the responsibility and duty of OW towards Mr G and Mrs A.
Mr G and Mrs A also disagreed with my provisional decision. They repeated the points they 
had previously made, their central point being that had they been correctly advised in the 
beginning, then they would not have proceeded with the transaction and not incurred the 
higher monthly mortgage costs. They think they paid OW a fee, twice, and ask whether that 
should be refunded too. They have not said when that fee was paid nor how much it was. In 
the absence of any evidence that this was paid, I cannot agree that it should be refunded.
I dealt with the issue of what I thought Mr G and Mrs A would most likely have done had they 
received the correct advice prior to exchanging contracts. I appreciate that in hindsight Mr G 
and Mrs A say they wouldnt have gone ahead with the letting of FC, but the evidence shows 
they were very keen not to lose the purchase of BW. Had they been resolute in only wanting 
to sell FC before they committed to the purchase of BW then I think they would have done 
just that. But the fact that they were entertaining a possible letting of FC tells me they were keen not to lose the purchase of BW and willing to accept all the risks that accompany letting 
out a property. As I said in my provisional decision, when new mortgage offers were 
obtained with the correct figures, Mr G and Mrs A did not at that point refuse to go ahead 
with them on the grounds that they couldnt afford it. Further the lender, having checked their 
circumstances, must also have assessed that the mortgage was affordable for them. So, I 
remain of the view that in all probability Mr G and Mrs A would have gone ahead with the 
letting of FC and purchase of BW had they obtained the correct mortgage offers initially.
Mr G and Mrs A have also queried why I cannot look into the issues of the affordability of the 
mortgage, and upon that point I can state that it is because OW have not yet had the chance 
to respond to that particular complaint issue, since it was not mentioned when they first 
brought the complaint to this service or indeed OW. So, if that is something Mr G and Mrs A 
wish to pursue then a fresh complaint for that issue will need to be raised first with OW.
In summary having considered what each party has said in response to my provisional 
decision and am not persuaded that there is any material evidence which causes me to 
change my view, and accordingly that provisional decision will now be made final. For ease 
of reference I repeat it below.
There is no great dispute as to what happened here. It is accepted that an error was made 
by the MA with the mortgage application. The crux of the complaint now relates to the 
amount of compensation that it would be reasonable to award Mr G and Mrs A. There are 
two parts to this; the first part relates to the direct costs of the error, and the second relates 
to the distress and inconvenience caused by the error. 
There can be no doubt that OW, through MAs mistake, is at fault. The error ought not to 
have occurred and when it did the MA ought to have spotted it and corrected it before Mr G 
and Mrs A exchanged contracts on BW. I cant ignore that Mr G and Mrs A quite obviously 
undertook some exercise in planning what funds they would need prior to contacting OW, as 
they would need to know roughly how much money they were going to have to borrow. They 
have said that when the mistake was uncovered they were £100,000 short and so it is 
surprising they didnt notice this when the mortgage offers were received. I appreciate they 
were relying on the expertise of OW to assist them with their mortgage application, but I 
would have expected that they would have been able to see that there was going to be a 
shortfall. It is equally surprising that their solicitor did not point this out either, but as our 
investigator has rightly pointed out I am not concerned with any failings in that regard.
The evidence shows that at least one sale had fallen through, possibly two, and that Mr G 
and Mrs A were coming under pressure to exchange contracts on their purchase. It is 
common knowledge that in every house sale and/or purchase there is always present a 
degree of pressure leading to stresses for those concerned. It is also clear that Mr G and 
Mrs A were determined to buy BW and were going to do so by either letting FC or selling it. 
That leads me to consider whether Mr G and Mrs A would have gone through with the letting 
of FC if they had received the correct mortgage offer for the let to buy mortgage, or would 
they have chosen to wait and try to sell FC. It is now known that the correct let to buy 
mortgage cost considerably more per month than the £150 they were initially told. That is 
because Mr G and Mrs A were borrowing a lot more money. Mr G and Mrs A say that this 
mortgage is unaffordable for them now, but as that specific complaint has not been directly 
made to OW I cant consider it, and this will have to form the basis of a new complaint if that 
is what Mr G and Mrs A wish to do. 
If they had chosen to wait in order try to sell FC, the risk was that they might lose the 
purchase of BW. At that point in time, they had already lost the sale of their existing property 
at least once, and there was no prospect of an immediate sale, in addition to which the developer of BW was putting them under pressure to complete the purchase. When the 
correct let to buy mortgage offer was received, the lender had checked whether it was 
affordable, and decided it was, and Mr G and Mrs A must also have thought it affordable 
because they accepted the offer. I do appreciate that Mr G and Mrs A felt they had no choice 
but to accept the new mortgage, but that is not entirely accurate. They could have chosen 
not to proceed with their new purchase and faced the potential losses through a breach of 
contract claim, which might possibly have been minimal should the seller have been able to 
sell it to another willing purchaser.
So, taking all of this into account, I think it is more likely than not that what Mr G and Mrs A 
would have done, had they known the true cost of the let to buy mortgage, is gone ahead 
with that rather than risk losing the purchase of BW. 
Putting things right
That leads me on to consider what direct losses then can be attributed to OW. Having found 
that they would most likely have gone ahead with letting FC, then it follows that they would 
have exchanged contracts on BW just as they in fact did. The direct losses which then follow 
from OWs error relate to the postponement of the completion date and the costs that were 
incurred because of that. These costs have been identified by our investigator and I agree 
that these have been caused by OWs error and so should be refunded to Mr G and Mrs A 
by OW. I have also identified a further cost of the additional survey fees to Kent Reliance. 
Mr G and Mrs A say these were £445 and I find that these would not have been incurred had 
the correct application been made initially. So, I feel it is fair that OW refund these fees too.
The remaining issue relates to the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G and Mrs A. 
Whilst I can accept that this was a very distressing time for them both, what I have to 
consider is the level of distress and inconvenience caused by OWs error. As I have already 
found, I think Mr G and Mrs A would have gone ahead with the letting of FC in any event and 
so any impact caused by learning of the increase in monthly mortgage payments, or having 
a larger mortgage, I do not attribute to OW. 
When we make awards of compensation we categorise them, and examples of these can be 
found on our website. What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the 
facts of each case are different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all 
the circumstances of the case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the 
effect upon the complainant of any particular service failures.
I think the relevant category of award this complaint An award .. of up to £750. For this 
category, awards are made for complaints where the impact of a mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that 
needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. The impact here might last over many weeks or 
months, but it could also be fair to award in this range if a mistake has a serious short-term 
impact. The MA was able to provide new mortgage offers within a reasonably short period of 
time and the completion of BW was thankfully saved. So, although it was a very worrying 
time for Mr G and Mrs A it was short lived.
OW has accepted that it didnt get things right and agreed with our investigators view that 
£500 compensation should be paid for the distress and inconvenience, and having thought 
about it again, I think that is a fair sum. My final decision
My final decision is that Objective Wealth Ltd shall pay to Mr G and Mrs A £4,068 in respect 
of their direct losses and a further £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused, totalling 
£4,568. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman