DRN-1779868
The complaint
Mr P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The PPI was added to 
Mr Ps credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I explain why below.
Mr P says he has no recollection of being sold or requesting PPI. So, I have looked into this.
The postal application Mr P completed had a box to tick if Mr P wanted the policy. Had he 
not wanted the policy he could have not ticked the box. In Mr Ps application, the box for the 
PPI has been ticked. Mr P says he didnt tick the box and it was not in his hand. He has 
arranged for a third party to look at this. They have done this and have supported Mr Ps 
view that he didnt tick the box. 
I can see on the application form that PPI is presented as optional and although Mr P is 
disputing the tick is not his, he most likely would have completed the form without any 
assistance from RBS and sent it in the post. I have not seen any other evidence of a tick 
being added to the form after Mr P sent it to RBS either.
In addition, I agree with our adjudicator when he said Mr P would have been aware of PPI by 
it being added to his monthly credit card statements. So, although I do acknowledge what Mr 
P has said and the evidence he has provided, when I balance that against what I have seen 
and concluded above, I think it is more likely he was given a choice to have PPI by RBS and 
he chose it.
The sale was through a postal application, so no advice was given. That means RBS didnt 
have to ensure it was suitable for Mr Ps needs. RBS did have to provide information to Mr P 
that was enough to help him make an informed choice about whether it was right for him. 
Its possible that the information RBS gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think Mr P wouldve still bought the policy anyway if better information 
was given. I say this because:
Ive considered the terms of the policy and what hes said about his circumstances 
when he took out the PPI. From this I think he was eligible for the cover the policy 
offered. And I dont think he was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations in the 
terms. 
I think Mr P could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mr Ps initial 
sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after six months. This policy could have 
paid 10% of the card balance for up to 12 months in the event of long-term ill health, 
or if he lost his job. And this would pay out in addition to his existing benefits. So, I 
think hed have thought the policy offered some potentially useful cover. 
So, I dont think that Mr P has lost out as a result of anything that RBS may have done 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman