DRN-4263269
The complaint
Miss H complains that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly gave her a running credit account 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2019, Miss H applied for a running credit account with Studio. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £150. Studio increased this limit in November 2019 to £350. Miss H 
began to miss payments on the account soon after the increase and by April 2020 she was 
regularly over her agreed credit limit and incurring fees and charges. The account was 
eventually defaulted and the debt sold to a third party in 2021. 
Miss H complained to Studio to say that the account had never been affordable to her as she 
had been in financial difficulties prior to applying for the account. She said that appropriate 
affordability checks ought to have shown this to Studio. Studio said that it had completed 
adequate checks when opening the account and increasing her limit and that these checks 
didnt reveal affordability concerns. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Studio had 
acted unfairly in opening the account, but it did so when it increased the credit limit to £350. 
She said that Studios checks revealed that Miss H was in a debt management plan and had 
recent arrears on other credit since opening the Studio account. She said this ought to have 
indicated to Studio that Miss H couldnt afford further credit. 
Studio disagreed. In summary, it said that it was a sub-prime lender, so their risk appetite 
needs to be taken into consideration. It said that one missed payment since the account 
opening wouldnt be enough on its own to prevent further credit being provided and Miss H 
had managed her Studio account well prior to the increase, including by paying more than 
the required minimum payment.  
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting credit Studio needed to ensure the borrowing would be affordable for 
Miss H. There isnt a set list of checks it needed to complete, but any checks it did needed to 
be proportionate in the circumstances. What is considered proportionate will therefore vary 
with each lending decision. More thorough checks are generally more likely to be necessary 
the more credit that is being provided or where the consumers circumstances indicate signs 
of financial difficulty. Studio would also need to take into account other factors such as (but 
not limited to): the cost of the credit, the size of any reasonable regular repayment and 
Miss Hs overall circumstances. 
As part of the application Miss H declared an annual income of £18,000. Studio says it 
attempted to verify this using credit reference agency data but was unable to do so. Its 
unclear exactly why this wasnt possible. In any event, what is clear is that it had no idea 
how much Miss H earned other than what she had told it. 
Studio says it also used statistical data to estimate Miss Hs outgoings which said she had 
around £350 in disposable income each month. It also completed a credit check which it 
says showed that Miss H was currently in a debt management plan and had a number of 
historic defaulted debts, the most recent of which was 20 months prior to the application. It 
says that the checks also showed that in the last six months there had been no adverse 
credit file entries and her credit utilisation of her open credit accounts didnt exceed 85%. 
Clearly there were areas of potential concern. However, Im mindful that the credit limit 
Studio provided initially was a modest £150 and that it appeared from the credit check that 
Miss H might have overcome her previous difficulty with credit given she was paying all open 
facilities on time and had done for some time. Ive also taken into consideration the nature of 
the credit, in that unlike a credit card, she could only use the credit facility with purchases 
from Studio and that Miss H had declared a reasonable level of income. Im therefore 
satisfied that Studio didnt make an unfair lending decision when it opened the account. 
The credit limit was increased in November 2019, three months after the account opening. 
Studio more than doubled her credit limit at that time. I dont think it made a fair lending 
decision at this point. Ill explain why. 
Studio could see that Miss H had new adverse information on her credit file in the form of 
arrears on another account. This arrears marker had been showing for two consecutive 
months since the Studio account was opened. This ought to have indicated that in having 
taken out credit with Studio, it likely caused Miss H difficulty in repaying other credit. This is 
particularly the case where Studio was already aware she was in a debt management plan. 
Where a consumer is in a debt management plan, its likely they will have very little 
disposable income as these plans will generally take into consideration what consumers can 
sustainably afford to repay creditors. As Ive set out above, Studio was proposing to more 
than double the credit limit, it had very little data on Miss Hs ability to sustainably repay a 
limit of £150 given the account had only been open three months. But what data it did have, 
suggested that her financial circumstances had deteriorated as soon as shed been given 
access to that credit. 
While I accept Studios premise that one late payment in isolation isnt sufficient to not 
provide further credit, that wasnt the case here. It wasnt in isolation. Miss H was in a debt 
management plan, hadnt had the account very long and in that short space of time had 
demonstrated she was potentially struggling even with a limit of £150 as she couldnt repay 
other credit on time. I therefore dont think Studio made a fair lending decision when it 
increased her limit to £350. 
To put things right, I think it would be fair for Studio to rework the account removing all 
interest, fees, charges and insurances that were applied to balances above £150. However, 
as Miss H has used the account to make purchases, I think its fair she repays any capital 
borrowed. Once that capital is repaid, Studio should also remove any adverse information 
recorded on her credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Studio Retail Limited to:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already refunded) applied to balances exceeding £150. 
If the rework results in Miss H having paid back more than she borrowed, any 
overpayments should be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest per year from 
the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. Studio should also remove 
any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file. 
If the rework results in there still being a capital balance outstanding, then Studio 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan for the outstanding amount. Once 
Miss H has repaid the capital, Studio should remove any adverse information from 
her credit file. 
I understand Studio has sold the outstanding debt to a third party. In order to carry out these 
directions it should either buy the debt back from the third party or ensure the third party 
carries out these directions on its behalf. 
If Studio considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Miss H with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so she can reclaim that 
amount, if she is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman