DRN-2354208
The complaint
Mrs L complains that British Gas Insurance Limited breached data protection laws by 
disclosing her personal information to a third party.
What happened
Mrs L has a HomeCare insurance policy with British Gas. In January 2020, she was 
expecting a call from a British Gas engineer to confirm an appointment for a boiler service 
the same day. Instead, the engineer mistakenly phoned Mrs Ls ex-husband. During this call, 
the engineer disclosed Mrs Ls current address to her ex-husband.
Mrs L complained to British Gas that it had breached data protection laws by disclosing her 
personal information. She also didnt understand why British Gas held her ex-husbands 
contact details on her account. Mrs L noted that, while her relationship with her ex-husband 
was amicable, the breach would have been much more serious in different circumstances; 
for example, if she didnt want him to know where she lived.
British Gas accepted that its service was poor and offered Mrs L £100 to apologise for the 
distress this caused her. Mrs L believed the offer was too low and complained to this service. 
She also wants assurance that this wont happen to her, or to anyone else, again.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She 
acknowledged Mrs Ls concerns, and that this incident caused her distress, but she 
considered British Gass offer to be fair. She also explained that complaints about breaches 
of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) should be directed to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Mrs L didnt agree with this, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I completely understand Mrs Ls concern. I agree with her that businesses must be incredibly 
careful with the personal information they hold, particularly given the potential consequences 
of the situation Mrs L described.
However, it isnt this services role to decide if British Gas has breached data protection 
laws. As our investigator explained, this is for the ICO to determine. I can only look at 
whether British Gas has acted fairly and, if it hasnt, whether Mrs L has suffered any 
detriment.
British Gas has accepted that it was at fault. Following this services involvement, it 
investigated the incident further. It found that an inactive record for a different address, which 
included Mrs Ls ex-husbands phone number, was linked to Mrs Ls account. Its engineer 
mistakenly phoned this number when he was trying to call Mrs L. British Gas has confirmed 
that it has removed this information from Mrs Ls account.
I accept that this incident caused Mrs L some distress. British Gas apologised for the error 
and offered Mrs L £100 to reflect the distress it had caused. Having considered Mrs Ls 
specific circumstances, I think British Gass offer is fair and in line with what Id award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. I leave it to Mrs L to decide if she wants 
to accept British Gas Insurance Limiteds offer of £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman