DRN-3219706
The complaint
Ms M has complained to Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (trading as Acenden) about 
her mortgage.
What happened
I issued a decision in December 2021 setting out which parts of this complaint we could 
consider.
I said we cant consider the complaints that were dealt with in the final response letters of 
27 September 2010, 15 August 2013, 24 September 2013, 18 August 2016, 5 October 2017 
and 13 September 2018.
Our investigator had already set out his findings on the merits of those aspects we could 
consider, saying that Kensington should pay £450 compensation for some customer service 
related failings, and arrange for Miss M to be able to contact it by email. Kensington 
accepted the investigators findings. Miss M didnt agree, and so Im now issuing this final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
As I explained in my decision about our jurisdiction, I cant consider any part of this 
complaint that relates to the building insurance issue as Ms M didnt refer those complaints 
to us in time. That means I also cant consider that her payment was going to be higher in 
July 2018 as that was because of the building insurance. My starting point is after that.
As the direct debit had failed twice in August and twice in September 2018, Kensington 
cancelled it. That seems reasonable. A lender shouldnt keep a direct debit set up if it has 
failed as it did here; thats completely normal and would be seen as good industry practice.
Ms M has said she tried to set the direct debit up again from October 2018 without success. 
Kensington would have no interest in stopping Ms M from paying her mortgage as it wants 
the monthly mortgage payments made. Ive no reason to believe that a new direct debit 
wouldnt have been set up if Ms M correctly requested that it be set up again and it was for 
an amount that was agreed with Kensington so it was affordable and would repay the 
accumulated arrears during the mortgage term (following the receipt of all the information 
Kensington needed to assess that). But Kensington didnt receive all the information it 
needed to fully assess Ms Ms request, and the amount she put forward wouldnt have 
repaid the arrears within the mortgage term.
That said, I agree with our investigator that Kensington could have re-set up the direct debit 
to at least just collect the monthly mortgage payment following Ms Ms email in 
November 2018 whilst the conversations were ongoing about the payments towards the 
arrears. Our investigator felt £100 compensation was fair for that oversight, and I agree with 
him. Whilst it would have been good customer service for Kensington to re-set up the direct 
debit at that time, I dont think that alone prevented Ms M from making her mortgage 
payments. Ill explain why.
Kensington gave various payment options to Ms M in a letter dated 26 September 2018. In 
that it said:
Direct Debit payments can be made and this is our preferred method of payment. You 
can call us with your bank details and we can set the Direct Debit up for you with your 
bank or we can send you a Direct Debit instruction form to fill in and return to us.
Standing order payments can be made. You can set the standing order up direct with 
your bank, using our bank details shown below, or we can send you a form to fill in and 
return to your bank for them to set the standing order up.
Website payments can be made online by going to www.acenden.com. You can pay 
using Visa Delta, Visa Electron, Mastercard Debit or Maestro.
Telephone payments can be made on the automated telephone payments service 24 
hours a day or by speaking to one of our agents during office hours on Tel: [phone 
number]. You can pay using Visa Delta, Visa Electron, Mastercard Debit or Maestro.
Bank payments can be made directly into our bank account using the following bank 
details.
[full bank details quoted]
You must allow up to five working days for payments to reach your account. Your 
mortgage balance may not include recent transactions.
Ms M has said she cant make the payments by most of the methods offered by Kensington 
and has given us reasons for that. But some of those reasons relate to Ms Ms change in 
circumstances in 2019, which doesnt explain why she didnt use them before then as no 
payments were made after July 2018.
It may be that Ms M chooses not to use telephone and internet banking, but that is her 
choice and certain things flow from that. There also seems to be no reason why Ms M 
couldnt have paid online Website payments can be made online by going to 
www.acenden.com. You can pay using Visa Delta, Visa Electron, Mastercard Debit or 
Maestro. That didnt require her to speak to anyone, to only deal with it at certain times of 
day or to have telephone / internet banking. All she needed to do was go on the website  
and we know she had internet access as she was emailing Kensington and its solicitor  and 
enter her card details to pay.
Ms M has also said she had family members prepared to assist her, so it seems reasonable 
she could have asked one of those to assist her in making the payments by one of the 
various means Kensington put forward if she was struggling to do so herself.
It is Ms Ms responsibility to ensure that her mortgage is paid, irrespective of whether a direct 
debit is in place to pay it; it is the consumers responsibility to ensure that the payment is 
made, by whatever means is necessary. In simple terms, the underlying contract of the 
mortgage is one were Ms M is lent money and in return agrees to make payments each and 
every month until the debt is repaid. What the preferred method of payment is, doesnt alter the underlying principle of the consumer owing money and being responsible for making the 
payments.
I can understand that Ms M liked the convenience of her payments being collected by direct 
debit. I imagine that Kensington liked it too, which is why it lists it as its preferred method. 
However, in the absence of an active direct debit mandate, Ms M was still responsible for 
making her mortgage payments. 
It was Ms Ms choice not to make her monthly mortgage payments by one of the other 
means (either with or without the assistance she said her family were willing to offer) and I 
dont think that Kensington can be held responsible for Ms Ms decision and so there are no 
grounds for me to order the various arrears fees and litigation charges be removed from the 
mortgage account.
Kensington sent field agents to visit Ms M twice, charging a £50 fee each time. As 
Kensington has already reversed those £50 fees I dont need to make any findings on 
whether they were appropriately charged or not.
Litigation was started because Ms M hadnt made a mortgage payment since July 2018. The 
transaction history I have on file goes up to July 2021, and that shows no payments in all 
that time with Ms M being over £24,000 in arrears at that point. Even if Ms M couldnt make 
payments towards the arrears, she should still have made her normal contractual monthly 
payments for those three years which would have meant the situation didnt worsen to the 
extent it has. Ms M told our investigator that she could afford the normal monthly payments 
in 2018 and beyond. I dont think Kensington acted inappropriately in taking and then 
pursuing legal action as no payments at all were made to the mortgage for a sustained 
period of time.
Ms M has said that Kensington didnt treat her fairly as it wanted to discuss matters with her 
over the phone, and due to her health concerns from 2018 she felt unable to do so. It seems 
Kensington was notified of Ms Ms difficulties with the phone in August 2019 when the field 
agent visited her, and I agree with our investigator that Kensington could have agreed (as it 
later did in February 2020) to correspond with Ms M by email for certain matters at that time. 
Had it done so I dont think the overall picture would have changed in terms of Ms Ms 
mortgage arrears and the litigation, but I do think Kensington caused her some distress and 
inconvenience and again I agreed with our investigator that £350 compensation is fair for 
that.
Kensington has confirmed that since 2021 it has had a secure message facility in place, and 
further information about that can be found at www.acenden.com/customer/contact-us.
I understand Ms M was unhappy with the information in the data subject access request that 
she received, and the time it took for her to receive it. I understand the information was sent 
to her on 17 January 2020, and then again by special delivery on 18 February 2020. Ms M 
said that the field agents report wasnt included. There was some confusion about this 
initially, but Kensington confirmed the field agent was a third party and therefore that 
information wouldnt be included in a data subject access request. It also confirmed that 
information that is subject to legal professional privilege wouldnt be included either. I 
understand Ms M was notified of that in the covering letter that enclosed her personal data. 
Having considered everything I dont think Kensington acting incorrectly in its processing of 
the data subject access request so that it caused her a financial loss or that it caused her 
detriment such that I consider compensation is warranted. If, however, Ms M feels Ms M 
didnt deal with her data subject access request correctly then she can raise that with the 
Information Commissioners Office www.ico.org.uk.Finally, Ms M has mentioned the Equality Act 2010, and said that Kensington ignored the 
information from the field agent and pursued a path intended to disadvantage her as the 
borrower. She said that this is discrimination as outlined in the Act and as such feels it is 
liable to a claim for damages.
Im required to take into account  amongst other things  relevant law and regulations. So, 
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
If Ms M wants a decision on whether Kensington has breached the Equality Act 2010, then 
shed need to go to Court.
It is clear that things havent been at all easy for Ms M, and she has been through some very 
difficult times. But as I explained above, the primary obligation that the mortgage contract 
created was for her to pay her debt to Kensington  to make her monthly payments. As I 
have said previously, the fact that there wasnt a direct debit mandate in place meant that it 
wasnt possible for the money to be collected by that method so it was Ms Ms responsibility, 
in that situation, to make her payments any other way possible (either with or without the 
family assistance that shes mentioned).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (trading as 
Acenden) to pay £450 compensation and correspond with Ms M by email wherever possible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman