DRN-2735024
The complaint
This complaint arises out of the approaches Ms Ws made to Lloyds Bank UK Plc between 
2015 and 2019 about her eligibility for a mortgage. Each time she contacted the bank, Ms W 
says she was given a different reason why she couldnt apply for a mortgage. Ms W believes 
Lloyds has discriminated against her, forcing her to incur more than £20,000 in hotel 
accommodation costs once she was no longer able to rent either.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. No discourtesys intended by 
that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some 
instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I have left out a 
lot of the detail (for example, Ms Ws professional title and nationality) is to avoid the risk of 
identifying her when my decision is published.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; but a lender must treat customers 
fairly. In the context of a request for mortgage lending, that means assessing it fairly in 
accordance with the banks lending criteria. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and 
not generally made public. Also, generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to 
interfere with a lenders commercial judgement on who it will lend to, and I see no reason to 
depart from that position here. 
Having looked very carefully at what both parties have said and provided, I think this 
complaint is more straightforward than its been made to look. I understand and appreciate 
how strongly Ms W believes that there is a discriminatory dimension to this case. Thats her 
prerogative and I would never question her right to hold the view she has expressed. 
However, on the evidence before me, it seems theres an altogether simpler explanation why 
Ms W would never have been eligible to apply for a mortgage with Lloyds. Her lack of a 
credit history in the UK may well have been a barrier in 2015, as might the fixed-term nature 
of her employment in the second half of 2017. Im aware Ms W has said that she was in a 
permanent employment contract in the earlier part of 2017. Ms W has also said, albeit this is 
only anecdotal, that mortgages have been granted to people on fixed-term contract. 
That may or may not be true but theres still one other factor that trumps everything else. At 
all times, regardless of anything else, Ms W would have been ineligible to apply for a 
mortgage with Lloyds because of her visa status. 
Ms W was in the UK on a temporary visa, and shes told us it was the expiry of that visa that 
led to her having to give up renting, move into a hotel, and eventually remove herself from 
the UK altogether. Lloyds lending policy doesnt allow mortgages to be granted to applicants 
on temporary visas. So however aggrieved Ms W feels, Im afraid, she hasnt been unfairly 
denied an opportunity to apply for a mortgage with Lloyds.
Of course, it might have been helpful if Lloyds had made this restriction clear from the 
outset; instead, what happened was that the discussion would end as soon as one of the 
other potential barriers came up. Thats unfortunate, but Im not convinced it prejudiced 
Ms W. 
On the one hand, shed have known sooner that Lloyds could never provide a mortgage 
unless and until she had permanent UK residence. But all that information could have 
prompted Ms W to do was make enquiries of other lenders, and she was free to do that 
anyway, each time Lloyds said no for a different reason. 
I note Ms W has taken exception to the suggestion she might have asked other lenders if 
they would provide a mortgage. I assure her its a perfectly reasonable suggestion that a 
person who has been turned down for a service (of any sort) might check if other providers 
will help them. Its an inherent component of a competitive market.
I make one other observation; Lloyds sent its final response on Ms Ws complaint to the 
postal address shed vacated several months earlier. She hadnt notified Lloyds formally of a 
new permanent address for mail, not least because she didnt have one. But Ms W had 
informed Lloyds in late 2019 that she was currently outside the UK and that it should use her 
email address for contact instead. 
I can see no reason why Lloyds should not have sent the final response to Ms W by email, 
but overall, I dont think the failure to do so has caused her any detriment. It didnt prevent 
her from referring her complaint to this service.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman