DRN-2267388
The complaint
Ms L complains about delays and poor service by Barclays Bank UK PLC when trying to
make Power of Attorney (POA) arrangements.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 3 September 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to 
uphold Ms Ls complaint and how I thought Barclays should resolve it. I said:
In 2017 Ms L visited a Barclays branch to set up POA over her accounts. Ms L has told us
that she submitted documents to Barclays and assumed that the POA arrangements had
been made.
In February 2019 Ms L asked about the POA arrangement and was told none existed. In
March 2019 Barclays told Ms L she had to resubmit the POA paperwork and application.
Ms L says she wasnt able to provide the documents again until 1 July 2019 when she asked
Barclays to confirm what was required to proceed. On 2 July 2019 Ms L asked Barclays
whether she could submit the documents by email. Barclays didnt respond until 31 July
2019, when it confirmed the documents could be sent by email.
Ms L complained about the way Barclays had handled her POA arrangements and it
responded on 17 August 2019. Barclays agreed there had been delays and explained that
Ms Ls attorney still needed to provide identification. Barclays offered Ms L £200 and
apologised. On 12 September 2019 Barclays responded again and apologised for mistakes
in its previous letter. Barclays confirmed that the attorneys identification had been received
and said Ms L needed to provide the POA document to proceed. Barclays increased the
award from £200 to £300 and apologised.
The documents Barclays asked for were sent to is in December 2019. There were further
delays and the POA wasnt set up until 30 April 2020. Barclays has told our service that the
branch most likely failed to obtain the correct information or didnt forward them to the
correct department.
Ms L referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. In her
complaint submission, Ms L confirmed the POA arrangement still wasnt in place. Our
investigator thought Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to increase
the award.
Ms L asked to appeal and noted that the POA arrangement hadnt been set up until the
Financial Ombudsman Service became involved. As Ms L asked to appeal, her complaint
was passed to me to make a decision. When I first reviewed the case, I asked Barclays to
relook at its offer of £300 and consider increasing it to take into account the additional delays
Ms L had experienced from December 2019 onwards. Barclays offered Ms L a further £100,
taking the total award to £400. But Ms L didnt accept. As Ms L asked to appeal, her case
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the timeline above. Ive reviewed everything Ms L
and Barclays have sent us in relation to the case and Im aware that there were many
emails, calls and branch visits made in relation to the POA arrangement. I agree with both
Ms L and Barclays that there were significant and unnecessary delays. Its clear the level of
service provided has been very poor and the POA arrangement took far too long to put in
place. Ive reached a different decision to the investigator. Based on what Ive seen so far, I
intend to increase the level of award to take into account the additional delays Ms L
experienced from December 2019 onwards.
Barclays paid Ms L £300 for delays and poor service until 12 September 2019. I agree that
Barclays should have been able to set up the POA arrangement sooner, but I think the £300
it paid is fair until that date. Ms L doesnt appear to have resubmitted the paperwork until the
end of December 2019. Ive focused on what happened since 2019 and the delays Ms L
experienced.
Barclays case handler has told us that Ms L didnt send it the POA document in December
2019 which caused a further delay. But no one at Barclays appears to have contacted Ms L
to let her know. Barclays also says that on 2 March 2020 the POA case was rejected as the
form wasnt signed and that in April 2019 the team dealing with it needed a signed
submission form. Our investigator was able to get the correct documents over to Barclays
and the POA was set up on 30 April 2020. Barclays says the delay was caused by either the
branch not obtaining the right information from Ms L or the documents failing to reach the
relevant department. Barclays agreed to increase the award by £100 but Ms L didnt think
that reflected the impact of the ongoing delays. I agree.
In my view, it should have been possible to arrange POA for Ms L in a reasonably short
period of time. I accept that there does appear to have been delays from Ms L in providing
documents at times. But I think that reflects the amount of times she was asked to send in
the same information and her growing exasperation with the process. Barclays has offered
Ms L a further £100 in relation to the four month additional delay she experienced in setting
up the POA arrangement. I agree with Ms L that the additional £100 Barclays offered doesnt
reasonably reflect what happened.
I intend to increase the additional award from £100 to £250, taking the total settlement to
£550. I think that figure more accurately reflects the long standing nature of the delays and
service Ms L experienced. Unless I see something that changes my mind, I intend to uphold
this complaint and direct Barclays to increase the compensation to a total figure of £550.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms L a total of £550 (less any compensation already paid).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or 
comments they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. We didnt hear back 
from Ms L and Barclays responded to confirm it accepted.
As Barclays has accepted my provisional decision and Ms L hasnt sent me anything further 
to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached. I still think that Barclays 
should pay Ms L a total of £550 and that the award fairly reflects the impact of the issues 
raised. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms L a 
total of £550 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman