DRN-3660036
The complaint
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. 
The CMC says that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly refused Mr Hs critical illness 
claim. To resolve the complaint, it believes the claim should be paid in full, with interest. 
What happened
Mr H is a member of his employers group critical illness policy. He joined the scheme on 1 
December 2017. 
On 13 October 2021, Mr H was sadly diagnosed with a type of colorectal cancer. He made a 
claim to Aviva. It assessed the claim under the policy definition of Second and Subsequent 
Cancer, because Mr Hs medical records showed he had been diagnosed with a type of 
prostate cancer on 27 September 2016, with treatment being offered up to 29 October 2016.  
In December 2021, Aviva told Mr H that it could not pay his claim. It said that the policy 
definition for a second cancer required that the member had fulfilled a five-year period 
without any treatment  and that was not the case for Mr H. Otherwise, the policys pre-
existing condition exclusion applied. That meant it couldnt pay for Mr Hs diagnosis. 
Mr H complained. He said his two cancers were entirely unrelated  and his consultant had 
confirmed as such in writing in December 2021. Though a claim was paid under a different 
group scheme for his first cancer, this was with a former employer. He had since joined a 
new employers scheme when starting a different job in November 2017.  
He also pointed out that:
Aviva had misinterpreted its terms and conditions  relying on different wording than 
he had seen from his employer;
the terms and conditions were unclear and contrary to Financial Conduct Authority 
principles when treating customers fairly;
the exclusion was excessive and discriminatory  it was not his fault he had a 
second, unrelated cancer. 
In February 2022, Aviva rejected the complaint. It said the correct wording was used and 
applied to Mr Hs circumstances. It was not acting in an unfair way, and it had rightfully 
applied the policy wording to Mr Hs second type of cancer  noting that it agreed the two 
types of cancer werent linked.  
It also explained to Mr H that it recognised he had said his company website held different 
information, but Aviva had supplied the correct policy information to the employer. 
The CMC brought Mr Hs complaint to this service. It said Mr H was 4 years, 11 months, and 
16 days free from his last cancer treatment. If he hadnt received a prompt diagnosis, he 
wouldnt be caught by the five-year policy provision. He was seen within one week after 
being referred by his GP, which might not have happened if he had used the National Health 
Service. 
It also said for the pre-existing condition policy exclusion to apply, Mr H would have needed 
to have made a previous claim through his employer's policy. As his previous claim was not 
through Avivas scheme, the CMC contended that Aviva incorrectly relied on the exclusion.  
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should succeed. 
He said Aviva had reasonably applied the pre-existing condition policy exclusion to Mr Hs 
claim because Mr H had been treated for his previous type of cancer prior to being added to 
the employers scheme within the relevant period. So, it had fairly refused the claim.  
The CMC said Mr H wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. It said, in 
summary:
the related conditions exclusion under the policy expressly said that it did not apply 
to claims for Cancer  second and subsequent;
and Aviva said it did not apply that exclusion;
in its final response letter Aviva said it accepted Mr Hs two cancers were unrelated 
and it had not refused the claim on that basis;
so, the only other exclusion  the pre-existing condition exclusion  was relied on by 
Aviva but that wasnt reasonable either;
thats because a previous claim wasnt made through the same employer;
he was not a member of the current employers scheme at the time of the first claim;
and therefore he and the CMC do not accept that the exclusion applies;
it reiterated how it was also unfair that because Mr H was seen privately rather than 
using the NHS, he was unfairly penalised by being within the exclusion period set out 
by the policy. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Hs diagnosis, and send him and his family my best wishes. 
Having reviewed everything carefully, I cannot uphold this complaint. I realise my decision 
wont be what Mr H has hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons for this conclusion below. 
Group critical illness schemes allow set numbers of members to join (or make some 
changes to their provisions at defined periods during any particular policy year, in this case 
every April) without prior underwriting. Because the insurer has not had the opportunity to 
individually assess the members circumstances, these types of cover include policy 
exclusions. Those exclusions are reviewed at the time a scheme member makes a claim.
So, the parties must review the policys terms and conditions in relation to exclusions when a 
claim is made. Mr Hs employers terms and conditions were set out in the February 2019 
Group Critical Illness Policy Wording attached to the most recent policy schedule for the 
period 1 April 2021 to 1 April 2023.
The relevant initial wording for Mr H is Cancer  Second and Subsequent. Though the 
CMC has contended otherwise, this claimable condition is for instances of unrelated cancer, 
where a member may have had cancer previously, which is then referenced by the policys standard cancer definition. The wording says:
This provides some cover for members who have been previously diagnosed with 
cancer. A lump sum benefit would be payable for a diagnosis of a new. unrelated 
cancer as defined by the policy terms.
If cover is selected. the pre-existing condition exclusion (see section 9.1) applies in 
the normal manner to subsequent cancer claims unless:
the member has been treatment free for a period of 5 years from the date of the 
most recent previous diagnosis of cancer, and
there is no evidence, confirmed by appropriate up-to-date investigations and 
tests, of any continuing presence, recurrence or spread of the previous cancer, 
and
The wording then goes on to set out the parameters of the new cancer diagnosis, in order for 
a valid claim, including evidence that the new condition in unrelated histologically to the 
previous cancer.  
I accept that the use of the word subsequent could be misleading, but in this context it is 
clear that the term is used to explain further instances of cancer, unrelated to previous 
diagnoses  rather than progression such as metastatic spread of an original cancer.  
This is the unfortunate situation that applies to Mr H, where he has sadly been diagnosed 
with a completely distinct cancer from his previous diagnosis in 2016. However, the policy 
wording above makes it clear that there must be a five-year period in which no treatment is 
given. Though it was incredibly proximate by just a couple of weeks, the five-year period 
wasnt met.  
I recognise that the CMC has put forward the argument that Mr H was seen promptly using 
private healthcare. However, it is not reasonable to surmise that Mr Hs diagnosis would 
have been different under public healthcare, given the existence of the two-week wait 
system. We simply do not know whether Mr H would have been placed under a further wait 
from the NHS, or if that wait would have been more than a further two weeks. It is not unfair 
to use actual evidence over the hypothetical. Though very proximate, Mr Hs new diagnosis 
was less than five years after he completed treatment for his earlier type of prostate cancer.  
Therefore, Aviva is correct in referring to the policy exclusion for pre-existing conditions as 
directed by the policy definition above. That says [including the bold references used in the 
policy wording]:
9. What is not covered?
9.1 Pre-existing conditions
See section 1 and the definition of Cancer - second and subsequent for an 
explanation of how this exclusion applies to that benefit.
A claim for each critical illness and each operation covered by the scheme will only 
be paid once in respect of each member or child. The insurer who insured the 
scheme at the time the claims conditions for the critical illness or operation were first 
met should consider the claim. 
We will not pay a lump sum benefit for a member or a child who has a critical 
illness or operation if that same critical illness or operation:
was pre-existing at any time prior to the date cover commenced under the 
scheme and;has previously met the conditions for a valid claim for that member or child 
under the scheme.
The wording in bold is included for defined terms given in the policys definitions section, 
contained at part 12 of the terms. And in that definition, scheme says Your group critical 
illness policy whether held by us or a previous insurer.  
I recognise that taking the wording together may seem unclear for Mr H. But I dont accept 
his or the CMCs view that the policy is misleading or incorrectly interpreted. The incidence 
of a second cancer is not a claimable event unless the member has been five years since 
treatment for an unrelated cancer. 
The reason for this is because any subsequent qualifying cancer is measured against the 
primary policy wording of cancer, which gives a specified severity of illness. Not all types of 
cancer (for example, pre-malignant and non-invasive cancers such as most skin cancers) 
will meet the severity set out in critical illness policies. The policy terms explain that as the 
critical illness is entitled cancer  excluding less advanced cases. This is not Avivas 
choosing; it is borne out by industry guidance issued from the Association of British Insurers. 
The logic as to why the exclusion is relevant here is because it determines if Mr Hs first 
cancer (paid by a different group scheme) was a pre-existing critical illness as defined by the 
policys cancer wording  which it was. Mr Hs first diagnosis met the conditions for payment 
under another group scheme. Put another way, a pre-malignant or low grade cancer would 
not have met the policy wording and no payment would have been due in 2016. 
So, if this hadnt been the case, then Aviva could have treated Mr Hs October 2021 
diagnosis as a first incidence of cancer under the scheme - be that its scheme or one with 
another provider. Put simply, Avivas group scheme will not meet a valid claim for more than 
one (unrelated) cancer diagnosis unless five years has passed between treatment.  
Ive explained earlier in this decision why insurers such as Aviva use exclusions and 
moratoriums such as these, because entrants to group schemes are not underwritten. An 
insurer is entitled to protect itself from claims where a new entrant (or a member who has 
increased their benefit) has suffered from an existing illness before the insurance goes on 
risk. To apply exclusions of this nature is standard practice for group policies of this type.
If Mr H had been applying for a standalone critical illness policy (with underwriting at outset), 
hed have been required to disclose his history of cancer. An insurer in those circumstances 
may likely refuse cover for any type of cancer as a general exclusion or apply a tailored 
exclusion to the effect that no claims for any new, unrelated cancer could be considered until 
a number of years after treatment ended for the first type of cancer. That is the same 
outcome as the group exclusion contained in Mr Hs employers scheme. Insurers will accept 
a prescribed amount of risk for the cost of providing insurance; to cover every conceivable 
illness would make policies inherently unaffordable. 
I cannot therefore find that Aviva was unfair to include the wording or that it doesnt apply 
here. Unfortunately, Mr H had not gone beyond the required five-year period since treatment 
of his first condition to have a claim considered for his unrelated new cancer diagnosis.
As an aside, I do note that Mr H told Aviva he felt he hadnt been treated fairly under the 
relevant regulatory Principles for Business set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
FCA Handbook. He specifically referred to Outcome 3  that being where consumers are 
provided with clear information and are kept appropriately informed before, during and after 
the point of sale. However, I cannot make findings on this point. The consumer that 
purchased the cover in this case is Mr Hs employer  it holds the group scheme with Aviva, of which Mr H is a member through the form of employee benefits. 
This service doesnt act as a regulator; we make fair and reasonable decisions under 
informal dispute resolution. Having done so, I find Aviva to have rightly refused Mr Hs critical 
illness claim, applying the policy wording Ive referred to above.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Hs circumstances, I cannot uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman