DRN-3353935
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt raise a chargeback dispute for him with his debit 
card network. 
What happened
Mr P paid for dental services using his Monzo debit card in March 2020. He received a CD 
with some images on it. But when Mr P tried to access the images, he couldnt. He tried to 
raise this with the dental company hed paid, but they didnt respond. So Mr P contacted 
Monzo about the issue. Its not clear when that was exactly, but I understand Monzo 
responded shortly afterwards, in January 2021. 
Monzo explained that there was a time limit for raising the sort of dispute Mr P had. They 
explained this was 120 days, and was set by the debit card network provider. They said that 
meant they couldnt help Mr P with his dispute. 
Unsatisfied with this, Mr P came to us. But our investigator confirmed that Monzo were 
correct about the 120-day time limit. So he felt it was reasonable that Monzo hadnt been 
able to help Mr P with his dispute. 
Mr P asked for that view to be reconsidered. He felt the events of 2020  and his specific 
circumstances  should have been taken into account more, before rejecting his claim 
against the dental company. He also felt it was unreasonable for Monzo to allow him to raise 
a dispute with a transaction after 120 days, if there was such a strict time limit in place. 
Unresolved, the complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mr Ps frustration, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I find 
Monzo acted reasonably when I consider the rules that apply. 
I can see this wasnt an unauthorised transaction. Mr P agreed to pay the dental company in 
return for services. The issue is around the format of some digital information, which Mr P is 
unable to open. 
So the correct process for Monzo to pursue this dispute with the dental company was 
through the card network providers chargeback rules. These rules arent set by Monzo. So 
they have to follow them, without having any control to change them.
The rules include a time limit  a chargeback must be raised within 120 days of the payment 
being made or the service being provided. Mr Ps contact with Monzo  apparently in 
January 2021  was well outside of this time limit. So I cant see Monzo made a mistake in 
telling Mr P that meant the chargeback process couldnt proceed. 
Theres no other action in the rules that could be used by Monzo. There isnt an option to put 
the time limits aside just because Mr P wasnt aware of them. Nor are there rules to allow the 
exceptional circumstances of 2020 to be factored in to the extent needed to allow Mr Ps 
claim to go ahead. 
That leaves Mr P having to try to resolve the dispute directly with the dental company, rather 
than through Monzo. While I appreciate thats frustrating for him, I find that outcome is fair in 
the circumstances of the case, and the service Monzo provided.
Monzo correctly applied the card networks rules. They explained these to Mr P. And theyre 
not responsible for the delay in the chargeback claim being raised with them. I find they dont 
need to do anything further to resolve Mr Ps complaint in this case. 
I note Mr Ps said he shouldnt have been allowed to raise a dispute with Monzo, given the 
time limits that apply to the chargeback process. But I dont see that as a major issue. There 
are other types of problem that can arise with payments on a bank account  for example, 
fraudulent payments, or technical errors  which have different time limits for being raised. 
Having a system that first listens to the customer and then explains whether a matter can 
proceed is a reasonable way to handle the variety of problems that might arise. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman