DRN-3557951
The complaint
Mr B and Ms H complain that Ageas Insurance Limited have made an unfair claim decision 
with a claim made on their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Ms H made a claim for escape of water at their home in 2018. The claim has been 
the subject of a number complaints over its handling with this service having issued opinions 
and decisions on a number of points. The full details of the claim and its history are known to 
Mr B, Ms H and Ageas well, so I wont set these all out here.
This complaint was brought to this service in April 2021 when Mr B and Ms H complained 
about the quality of the repair work completed at their property previously. They felt an issue 
with the parquet flooring was the result of the drying and repair works not being completed 
properly before. As a result they feel damage should be covered by Ageas. The also raised 
previous concerns about bacteria in the house as a result of the previous repairs being 
completed poorly and that utility bills that they expected to have been covered.
Mr B and Ms H first noticed this damage to the flooring in 2020 when they asked an expert to 
give their opinion on the cause. The report said the moisture readings were higher than the 
average and they suspected the flooring was re-laid ahead of the house being dried.
Ageas sent its final answer on this complaint and said that it felt the damage being claimed 
for might be because of a new escape of water in the property. This would need to be 
investigated and if it was, Ageas wouldnt be liable for the damage now. The final response 
said Mr B and Ms H cancelled their policy with Ageas in 2019. Ageas felt it was more likely 
that the damage noted in 2020 was the result of a new incident and it wouldnt be 
responsible for this as it is not the insurer.
Our investigator looked at Mr B and Ms Hs complaint. She explained somethings had been 
considered by this service previously, so she wouldnt be commenting on these. She also 
said that other issues including the bacteria in the house and utility bills not having been paid 
previously were not part of the complaint looked at by Ageas. So she was only able to 
consider the complaint about the flooring and whether Ageas had acted fairly with its 
response to this.
She accepted that it had been demonstrated that the moisture levels in the floor were higher 
than average. But she didnt think this showed the cause of the moisture was the previous 
escape of water. And although work had been completed previously, she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for the cause of the moisture to be established. If it was a new leak it wouldnt 
be the responsibility of Ageas. If it was linked to the previous leak, Ageas might be liable. 
Mr B and Ms H disagreed. They thought with the proximity in time between the work being 
completed and them moving back to the property and discovering the damage, that this 
alone was proof enough to show the previous repair works hadnt been completed 
effectively. 
Because Mr B and Ms H have disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator.
I understand Mr B and Ms H have been going back and forth with Ageas for a number of 
years on issues they feel relate to their previous claim. And the claim itself had a number of 
complaints brought about its handling. Im sorry theyve had this experience and I 
sympathise with them for the impact this has clearly had.
They feel that there is a clear causal link between the damage noticed in their flooring when 
they returned to their property and the repair work not being completed properly before. 
They feel it demonstrates the property wasnt dried correctly at the time resulting in the 
damage to the flooring. 
I think it is fair to accept there could be a link between the previous works and the flooring. 
But I dont think it is unreasonable for Ageas to request evidence to support the opinion of 
the flooring expert, on the cause of the moisture readings in the house. 
Mr B and Ms H have provided an opinion on the cause of damage to the flooring. The expert 
has confirmed that the moisture levels in the flooring were higher than average  with a 
reading of 12.4%-12.6% compared to an average expected reading of 8%-11%.  They also 
give an opinion on the cause of this moisture with him stating it could be because the house 
was not dried out before the flooring was laid. The following was said in relation to this:
I was informed that the insurance company installed heaters, dehumidifiers and fans after 
the floor was laid which has resulted in the parquet cupping and lifting in certain areas
So there is a clear opinion that the cause of damage to the floor is related to the previous 
escape of water. 
But I understand why Ageas has concerns to agree that this is definitely the cause of the 
damage and that it is responsible for covering the cost of any repairs.
When the repair work was completed on Mr B and Ms Hs property, they appointed a loss 
adjuster to handle the claim and repair works on their behalf. So although paid for with the 
settlement agreed with Ageas, Ageas didnt complete the repairs directly. The loss adjuster 
appointed by Mr B and Ms H did this. It also made sure the property was dry ahead of the 
repair work being completed with the drying certificate provided to their loss adjuster directly.
The invoice for the drying programme was submitted to Ageas in February 2019 and with 
this in mind, it is understandable why Ageas is concerned that any further signs of water 
ingress in the property after it was confirmed as having dried out, might not be from the 
same escape of water.
Mr B and Ms H havent, to my knowledge on what is provided on this complaint, raised any 
claim or potential claim with the current insurer. And while I understand their concern about 
the cause of damage being linked to the original escape of water and its repair works, I dont 
think it can be said that it is definitely as a result of this. And I think it needs to be bourn in 
mind that Ageas, although having agreed to the repair costs and drying schedule, didnt 
organise this directly. Mr B and Ms Hs appointed loss adjuster took over the management of the claim before the drying was completed and this work formed part of its invoices. So even 
if Mr B and Ms H can show that the damage relates to the original escape of water, Ageas 
may still question its liability over this.
Our investigator touched on the other elements Mr B and Ms H remain unhappy with. She 
explained what should have been paid by Ageas in reference to the utility costs and this is 
correct. Mr B and Ms H would always need to pay the utility bills for their property, but they 
shouldnt pay more because of the claim  so if they needed to pay two council tax bills as 
an example, they should be reimbursed for the additional cost. Ageas has requested the bills 
paid in excess of the normal utility costs in relation to the claim and Mr B and Ms H will need 
to submit these for its consideration. If they are unhappy with the response, this will need 
raising as a new complaint.
Similarly, the issues relating to the presence of bacteria in the house  separate to those 
considered by this service previously, will need to be considered by Ageas. It doesnt appear 
it has issued  a response on this yet. If unhappy with any response on this, Mr B and Ms H 
may wish to bring a complaint about it.
Overall, while I understand the concerns Mr B and Ms H have over the cause of damage, I 
dont think Ageas has been unreasonable in asking for more evidence to substantiate the 
cause and confirm its liability.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman