DRN-3822716
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited because it wont continue to pay claims in 
full for fee-limited specialists. 
What happened
Mr J raised a claim with AXA in March 2019. The treatment required specialist oversight and 
so Mr J arranged to see a doctor with the relevant experience. But when AXA received the 
invoice for Mr Js treatment, it said this exceeded the limit on his policy. 
AXA said it had limits for the cost of treatment associated with Mr Js condition. It said this 
information was readily accessible for consumers and detailed in the policy terms, but 
conceded on this occasion, this wasnt the case. To put things right, AXA agreed to cover 
the specialists fees in full in May 2019.
Mr J arranged for further treatment with the same specialist in March 2020, to which AXA, 
when it received the invoice, reiterated this exceeded the policy limit and so Mr J would need 
to pay the remaining costs. Mr J disagreed and reminded AXA of his previous experience 
and that AXA had agreed to cover his specialists costs. But AXA said that offer was solely 
for the previous treatment and wasnt supposed to be extended indefinitely. But Mr J 
disagreed. Mr J said he was given conflicting information when he complained and that this 
caused him distress. AXA then agreed, in October 2020, that it would fund the shortfall for 
any fee-limited specialists Mr J chose to see for the remainder of the policy year  which was 
until February 2021  effectively three months worth of treatment.  
Our investigator thought that was fair. She accepted Mr J was given conflicting information 
when he discussed this with AXA. She also highlighted AXA recognised this. She said Mr J 
had been aware of AXAs approach to fee-limited specialists for some time and so she didnt 
think AXA needed to do anything more in respect of this complaint because its offer was fair. 
Mr J disagreed. In summary, he said the investigator didnt understand his complaint. He 
referred to phone calls he had with AXA where he was given conflicting information. He 
explained his claim has had an adverse effect on his wellbeing as hes found it unnecessarily 
time consuming and stressful. He said the offer AXA made should be extended indefinitely  
thats to say that it should always pay the shortfall for any costs associated with fee-limited 
specialists as this is what he was promised. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the offer made by AXA is fair and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything more in respect of this complaint. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator in that I think AXAs offer fairly reflects the level of 
upset and confusion caused, and Im satisfied this puts things right. Ill explain why.
Mr Js policy terms say about this issue;
3.4 > Who can provide your treatment;
 
Your policy covers you for treatment that is;
medical practitioners
complementary practitioners
physiotherapists
We will pay for their normal charges for the treatment. We will not pay if the charges for your
treatment are higher than they would normally charge for that treatment []
Agreements with medical practitioners, physiotherapists and complementary practitioners on 
what we will pay in the UK.
In the UK, we have a schedule of procedures and fees that sets out the limits that we will
pay medical practitioners, physiotherapists and complementary practitioners. If you do not
call us prior to treatment we will pay up to the usual amount charged by medical 
practitioners, physiotherapists or complementary practitioners for that treatment.
The specialist Mr J saw wasnt part of AXAs fee-agreed specialists network and therefore, 
for the purposes of my final decision, hes a fee-limited specialist. That means AXA will only 
pay up to a certain amount for treatment provided by specialists that arent part of its fee-
approved network. 
When Mr J first made a claim for the specialists costs in March 2019, AXA made its position 
clear on this point. Im satisfied that happened because it told Mr J, he would need to cover 
the remaining costs for his treatment, once itd settled the invoice in line with its policy limits. 
However, AXA agreed to cover the treatment costs in full, because it agreed the limits 
werent accessible or clear enough. I understand why AXA did this at that time and I thought 
it was a fair way to resolve the issue. 
Mr J subsequently expected this offer to continue indefinitely, which I think is unreasonable, 
simply because the policy limits for fee-limited specialists were unclear. The reason I say this 
is unreasonable is because from March 2019, he was made aware of the limitations 
surrounding this element of cover and so I dont think it reasonable AXA continue to provide 
cover in these circumstances. Im satisfied Mr J ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
policy limits as he was told about them when he first brought his claim. 
Mr J then complained that he was given mis-leading, or conflicting information, when he 
called again the following year. But I disagree. I say that because Mr J was simply told his 
policy wouldnt cover the full costs associated with his specialist treatment  which he was 
told initially. And so, the adviser he spoke with was simply reiterating the policy terms and 
that there was a limit attached to fee-limited specialist treatment. But because Mr J 
complained again, AXA eventually agreed to cover those associated costs for the remainder 
of the policy  which was around three months worth of cover. 
I thought this was a very fair offer as AXA effectively extended the policy coverage to 
accompany Mr J and his specialist treatment. AXA didnt need to do this, however, it decided 
this was the right thing to do for Mr J. AXA went on to extend this offer because it noted Mr J 
didnt claim for any specialist treatment during this time and so has said itll continue to offer 
cover for three additional months. Mr J declined this offer, however, I must say that I thought 
it very fair in the circumstances and more than I wouldve asked it to do. I say that because 
Im satisfied AXAs original offer wasnt an indefinite one, and Im satisfied Mr J was fully 
aware, or ought to have known the treatment with his chosen specialist was subject to fee-limitations.  
Mr J has consistently said throughout his complaint that those involved have misunderstood 
the crux of the issues. But I note thats been in response to those that have disagreed with 
his position. To be clear, Mr J would like AXA to continue to fund his chosen specialists fees 
in full  and Im saying thats not fair or reasonable. The offer made by AXA is fair and its for 
Mr J to say whether hed like to accept it. I also noted Mr Js suggestion that I request call 
recordings of the conversations he had with AXA because he thought it would better explain 
his issues with AXA, but I dont consider that necessary in the circumstances. I say that 
because its not in dispute Mr J was given conflicting information at times, but I think the offer 
made by AXA fairly puts things right here.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer of three months worth of treatment with Mr Js chosen 
specialist made by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman