DRN-3705428
The complaint
Miss C complains about the service she received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) when she used its banking app to make a payment.
What happened
Miss C held an account with Nationwide. In February 2022, she used Nationwides banking 
app to transfer funds to a current account she holds with another bank (which Ill call B). The 
money didnt arrive with B, so Miss C called Nationwide. Nationwides agent said the money 
had gone to a credit card account which was also held with B. She said the credit card 
account was set up as a payee on Miss Cs Nationwide account and this was the one which 
had been selected for the transfer. 
Nationwides agent said that Nationwide would contact B and ask them to send the money 
back to Miss Cs Nationwide account. She said that the process could take up to 20 days 
and there was no guarantee that the funds would be returned, as B would have to contact 
the account holder.
Miss C said there was an error with Nationwides app and she wanted to raise a complaint. 
She said shed selected the current account as the payee and that Nationwide needed to 
give her money back. She was very distressed during the call. Nationwide contacted the 
police afterwards and they paid Miss C a visit. Miss C was very unhappy that Nationwide told 
the police about the situation and says she felt treated like a criminal.
Miss C also says that Nationwide gave her incorrect information about the timescale for 
recovering the funds and that it didnt raise the refund request when it should have.
Nationwide says that two accounts held with B were set up as payees on Miss Cs banking 
app. One was the current account into which Miss C had intended to transfer the money. 
The other was a credit card account. Nationwide says that Miss C selected the credit card 
account as the recipient of the transfer in February. So it says it didnt make a mistake by 
transferring the funds to that account. But it says it raised a payment recovery request with B 
and the funds were returned to Miss C within a few days.
Nationwide says that its agent did the right thing by contacting the police after the call from 
Miss C. It says it has a duty of care to look out for the welfare of its members and that it was 
right to ask the police to check on Miss C in light of comments she made during the call.
Miss C asked this service to look at the complaint. Our Investigator didnt think Nationwide 
had acted unfairly. But Miss C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that the payment in February was sent to a 
credit card account which was saved as a payee on Miss Cs banking app.
Nationwide says that Miss C selected this payee when making the transfer. But Miss C says 
she didnt. She says there was a problem with Nationwides app which caused the money to 
go to the wrong account. Ive thought carefully about what each of the parties has said about 
this and Ive looked at all the available evidence. I think its most likely that the wrong payee 
was accidentally selected from the list when Miss C made the transfer. 
I know Miss C feels strongly that this didnt happen. But the money went to a credit card 
account which was listed on her Nationwide account as a payee. I think Nationwide followed 
the instructions it received through the app. I havent seen anything to suggest it was 
instructed to send the money to one account but acted against those instructions and sent it 
to a different account. And I havent seen evidence of any problems with the app at the time. 
So, I cant safely conclude that Nationwide made a mistake by sending the money to the 
credit card account.
Turning to Miss Cs call with Nationwides agent, I dont find that any of the information given 
to Miss C during the call was incorrect. And Im satisfied that Nationwide submitted the 
payment recovery request that same day. 
B returned the funds to Miss Cs Nationwide account five days later. Im pleased to see that 
Miss C got her money back. And Im satisfied that Nationwide followed the correct procedure 
for that to happen.
Ive listened to Miss Cs call to Nationwide and she was clearly very distressed. In the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to contact the police and request a 
welfare visit. I understand that Miss C now accepts that Nationwide was following policy and 
procedures by doing so.
Miss C feels very strongly about this complaint and has found the whole situation very 
distressing. So I know she will find my decision disappointing and Im sorry for that. But I 
dont find that Nationwide did anything wrong here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman