DRN-3365900
The complaint
Mr W complains about Parkgate FS LLP. 
Hes unhappy about the time it took to complete his ISA transfer and purchase shares using 
cash. Hes also unhappy that he couldnt purchase more shares. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
As the IFA, Parkgate failed to submit the correct transfer request on 25 March 2020 
and that caused delays resulting in financial loss to Mr W. 
If the correct instructions had been submitted, its more likely (than not) that the 
transfer wouldve completed within 30 days, in line with HMRC guidance. 
The 30 days was likely to start from 22 April 2020, which is roughly the date the 
transferor and transferee accepted the request. So, the transfer ought reasonably to 
have been completed by 22 May 2020, and the Airbus shares purchased (as Mr W 
had always intended) one working day later, on 25 May 2020. 
Several reasonable assumptions were made  based on the actual chronology  in 
support of the hypothetical timeline:
oOn 25 March 2020, Parkgate ought reasonably to have submitted the 
(correct) partial transfer request, as opposed to the incorrect request. 
oOn 27 March 2020, Mr W was likely to have received the relevant documents 
(in the post) to sign and return.
oBy 3 April 2020, the documents were likely to have been received by 
Parkgate, using a five-day turnaround. 
oThe relevant documents were likely to have been sent to the transferee the 
same day and received on 7 April 2020.  
oOn 10 April 2020, the transferee was likely to have scanned the application as 
it took three working days to do this.
oOn 16 April 2020, the transferor was likely to have received the request, and 
in due course on 20 April 2020 scan it on to its system. 
oOn 22 April 2020, based on the actual time it took to respond, the transferor is 
likely to have actioned the form.  
oThe 30 calendar days is likely to have started from 22 April 2020. 
oAlthough there isnt a definitive date when the transfer request was accepted 
by the transferee, the cash was transferred on 9 June 2020. Assuming that to 
be the date of acceptance, the correct transfer in this instance ought 
reasonably to have been completed by 22 May 2020. 
oAs the cash was used to purchase the Airbus shares one working day after it 
was received by the transferee, the shares were likely to have been 
purchased on 25 May 2020. 
oAlthough the actual transfer happened sooner, theres no guarantee that it 
wouldve happened within the same timescale and he has therefore taken this 
into account. 
The £2,800 offered to make up for the shortfall of units  on the basis that other 
providers also matched the contribution  is unreasonable as it doesnt meet the 
actual number of additional Airbus shares Mr W wouldve been able to purchase.
The £200 compensation offered for the distress and inconvenience is broadly fair and 
reasonable.  
In terms of the loss calculation, Parkgate should do the following:
oCalculate how many additional Airbus shares Mr W couldve purchased on 
25 May 2020. 
oCalculate how much cash wouldve been generated from the sale of the 
additional shares on 16 September 2020. 
oPay Mr W the loss, with 8% simple interest from the date of disinvestment (16 
September 2020) to the date of payment. 
Parkgate disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
Mr W hadnt wished to include it in the complaint involving the transferor and 
transferee. The evidence shows that the two businesses fell short of their duty 
towards Mr W. 
Mr W was encouraged by our service to include it in the complaint, because it was 
easy to blame, rather than go after two large businesses.  
The investigator referred to HMRC guidance, but its rules and conduct is based on 
COBS 1 and COBS 2. 
It only ever tried to assist Mr W with his objective which he couldnt achieve through 
the transferor. Its now being penalised for this, even though it hadnt advised Mr W 
to pursue this course of action and didnt charge for the assistance provided.  
Mr W also didnt know that funds had been suspended. If it had done nothing, what 
wouldve happened? Mr W wasnt aware of an alternative route and risked losing his 
ISA status and being subject to capital gains tax (CGT). Surely, during the covid-19 
lockdown, leaving Mr W to find a solution himself wouldve added more time and 
effort to the process. 
It may have made one mistake in not identifying the transfer as a partial transfer  as 
it wasnt informed of a suspended fund  but that didnt lead to a two-month delay. 
The delays were down to the transferor and transferee having two different 
processes. 
It has contacted the (two) businesses and Mr W in excess of 20 times during this 
process, which is substantially more time than it should be. It initiated more contact 
than the businesses did. 
At no time did the transferor notify it  whilst asking for valuations before the process 
started  that funds had been suspended which is a material failure on that 
businesss part. 
It cant be held responsible for investments going up or down, especially in relation to 
stocks it didnt and couldnt recommend because it wasnt authorised to do so. 
It, like the other two businesses, has a reasonable time for executing transactions 
and treating customers fairly. The investigator appears to suggest that it has the 
same level of resources as the other two businesses such that it should be able to 
provide a better and faster service.  
The above points notwithstanding, its possible that all three institutions did their best 
to provide a positive outcome for Mr W during unprecedented times. The Covid-19 
lockdown, staffing and IT issues compounded the already complicated and labour 
intensive process.   
Mr W didnt lose money as such but didnt make as much gain despite its best efforts. 
Our investigator having considered the issues wasnt persuaded to change his mind. In 
short, he said:Mr W referred a complaint to our service involving all three parties involved in the 
transfer process.
Theres no dispute about Parkgates obligation to follow COBS, but were also able to 
have regard to the HMRC ISA transfer timescales.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Parkgate says, I dont think it 
behaved reasonably. In other words, Im satisfied that on 25 March 2020, instead of 
submitting a partial transfer request it erroneously submitted a full cash transfer which 
wasnt possible to complete owing to some suspended funds. 
On balance, I think that had Parkgate not made this error, the transfer was more likely (than 
not) to have completed by 22 May 2020, enabling Mr W to purchase Airbus shares sooner 
on 25 May 2020. Despite what Parkgate says, this isnt the same as saying that its 
responsible for a two-month delays. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the hypothetical timeline proposed by the investigator is fair 
and reasonable and takes into account the fact that two other parties were involved in the 
process, which took place during the early days of a government imposed lockdown in the 
midst of a global Covid-19 pandemic.  
Based on the investigators preliminary calculations  which I dont think are necessary to 
repeat  I also dont think the £2,800 redress offered by Parkgate  contingent upon the 
transferor and transferee accepting equal fault  is fair or reasonable in the circumstances.  
To put things right, I think Parkgate should compare the value Mr W received from the sale 
of his Airbus shares on 16 September 2020, with the value he wouldve received from the 
sale of  the shares (on 16 September 2020) had he purchased them on 25 May 2020 using 
the transferred cash. And if theres a difference, Parkgate should pay that loss with 8% 
simple interest from the date of settlement (16 September 2020) to the date of payment. 
I note the investigator broke this down into two parts. He said Parkgate should compare how 
many Airbus shares Mr W purchased on 10 June 2020, with what he wouldve been able to 
purchase on 25 May 2020 using the same cash. It should then calculate what Mr W wouldve 
received from the sale of those additional Airbus shares on 16 September 2020 and pay the 
amount with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. The 
above notwithstanding, I think the £200 compensation offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr W and Parkgate have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a 
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the 
pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr W and Parkgate, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than 
take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
I dont think theres any dispute that the decision to sell all of Mr Ws shares, and the 
purchase of Airbus shares  as per his initial instructions to Parkgate dated 19 March 2020  
were non-advised. 
In other words, I acknowledge that Mr W decided this course of action of his own volition 
without any advice or guidance from Parkgate. I note that the issue regarding advice or lack 
thereof, is not the subject of this complaint. The process by which Parkgate caried out Mr 
Ws instructions to sell his shares (and purchase Airbus shares) is very much the subject of 
this complaint. 
Im aware that there were two other businesses  the transferor and the transferee  which 
were also involved in this process. However, in this case Im only considering the actions of 
Parkgate. Im aware that complaints against the transferor and transferee have been dealt 
with separately, and neither complaint was upheld. 
Despite my decision to uphold this complaint, I acknowledge that Parkgate endeavoured to 
comply with Mr Ws instructions and try and provide a positive outcome during these 
unprecedented and challenging times. Im also aware that Parkgate found a platform 
(namely the transferee) that could facilitate the purchase of Airbus shares because the 
transferor couldnt. 
I also acknowledge that Parkgate was involved in numerous emails over and above what it 
would normally have had to do, and it was generally prompt in its responses. Despite what 
Parkgate says, I dont think its conduct was hampered by its size or resources during the 
lockdown. In my opinion theres no criticism of it in that sense. 
However, the above notwithstanding, Im satisfied that a fundamental error was made by 
Parkgate, at the very outset, that caused delays that resulted in financial loss to Mr W. I note 
that on 21 April 2020, the transfer request  originally made by Parkgate on 25 March 2020 
 was rejected by the transferor. 
On 23 April 2020 the transferee notified Parkgate that the rejection was due to the 
suspended funds  namely the Threadneedle UK Property Authorised Trust Fund and the 
L&G fund  that were closed but couldnt be transferred as cash. I understand that those 
funds could only be transferred in-specie, but this issue wasnt addressed by Parkgate when 
the instructions were given to the transferor.   
It seems that the transferor  as an execution only platform  completed the switch request 
on behalf of Mr W, as instructed by Parkgate. But despite what Parkgate says, Im satisfied 
that the transferor made reasonably clear (at the outset) that it was unable to sell suspended 
shares as part of the request and therefore it was up to Parkgate to take appropriate action.  Based on a simulated snapshot of the customer journey  provided by the transferor  it 
seems that Parkgate, as part of its instructions, had to select the sell all option for each 
individual line of stock. However, this option wasnt available for the suspended funds, and 
instead the platform displayed the following message:
Restrictions apply to selling this fund. Please contact us for further information.
Based on this information, I think Parkgate knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that 
there was an issue with the sale of the suspended funds  therefore it shouldve contacted the 
transferor (as suggested) to discuss a way forward. On balance, I think that had Parkgate 
done so, it wouldve been reasonably clear that it needed to submit a partial transfer request 
so that Mr W could still buy the Airbus shares in a timely manner using his money. 
I note a switch statement issued to Parkgate on 25 March 2020 also didnt include the 
suspended stock which ought reasonably to have rung alarm bells. In the circumstances I 
dont think it was necessary for the transferor to separately advise Parkgate that it couldnt 
sell suspended shares.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I agree with the investigator that if Parkgate 
had taken note of the information it had received, it couldve submitted a partial transfer 
request at the outset, instead of when the request was rejected in April 2020. Despite what 
Parkgate says, in my opinion this error isnt linked to the difficulties experienced by financial 
businesses during Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. 
I appreciate what Parkgate says about the different processes applied by the transferor and 
transferee, but I think the investigator in his hypothetical timeline took this into account and 
thats why he started the 30 day timescale only once the parties had agreed the request. 
In my opinion this also takes into account the subsequent need to submit a new request, as 
was the process  in manual paper form via post  rather than electronically. It also takes 
into account the difficulties faced by the transferor and transferee owing to the pandemic and 
lockdown. And thats why, on balance I think the request made on 25 March 2020, was 
unlikely to complete until 22 May 2020 and the Airbus shares subsequently purchased on 25 
May 2020. 
 
In the circumstances I dont think that Parkgate is responsible for the loss in value of the 
Airbus shares. The value is dependent on the stockmarket, and it seems Mr W accepts that 
its not something that Parkgate can predict or control, especially in a global pandemic which 
is likely to have an impact on the global stockmarket.
However, I think Parkgate is responsible for the additional Airbus shares Mr W couldve 
bought  had the transfer completed a month sooner  and subsequently sell on 16 
September as per Mr Ws plan. 
For this reason, I dont agree with Parkgate that Mr W hasnt suffered a financial loss as a 
result of its error, and I why I think it should pay him redress as set out below.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Parkgate FS LLP should compare the value Mr W received from the sale 
of his Airbus shares on 16 September 2020, with the value he wouldve received from the 
sale of the shares on 16 September 2020, had the Airbus shares been purchased on 25 May 
2020, instead of 10 June 2020. And if theres a difference, Parkgate should pay that loss with 8% simple interest from the 
date of settlement (16 September 2020) to the date of payment. 
Parkgate FS LLP should also pay Mr W £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Parkgate FS LLP should calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman