DRN-3352283
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a car was misrepresented to her when she entered into a hire 
purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services Limited (MBFS)
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS.
Mrs B says the agreement was misrepresented to her. She says the salesperson told her 
that the final payment required to settle the agreement would be £6000 and that she could 
pay this after 24 months.
When Mrs B tried to settle the agreement MBFS advised her that the agreement was for 30 
months and that the final payment was £12,850.
Mrs B complained to MBFS. She said shed never received a copy of the agreement and 
hadnt received the free servicing that the salesperson had promised. There were also 
issues with the registration of the car. In response, MBFS found that the agreement had 
been sent to an incorrect email address and said it had no record of the welcome pack being 
sent to Mrs B. It said it couldnt comment on any discussions Mrs B had with the salesperson 
regarding products such as servicing or registration. MBFS acknowledged that the correct 
proves hadnt been followed in relation to the provision of the agreement and offered to 
remove the interest from the agreement of £3579.80, leaving a final payment of £9270.20. It 
also offered compensation of £200.
Mrs B wasnt happy with the resolution offered by MBFS and brought her complaint to this 
service. She wants to settle her agreement for £8000, based on a deduction of the monthly 
payments shes made since October 2021.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she couldnt be certain what was said to Mrs 
B by the salesperson and wasnt able to say that there had been a misrepresentation. The 
investigator said she was satisfied that MBFS hadnt followed the rules because it hadnt 
provided Mrs B with a copy of the agreement. The investigator said that MBFS had acted 
fairly by offering to remove interest from the agreement and paying compensation for poor 
service, but said that MBFs should pay further compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs B.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said shed been left in a position where she had to find more money 
than she thought shed need to settle the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs complaint is based on a difference between what she says she was told by the 
salesperson and what the agreement says. Ill focus on the circumstances at the time the 
agreement was incepted. Im unable to say exactly what was discussed between Mrs B and 
the salesperson. But one of the reasons why regulated credit agreements are put in writing 
is to obtain a record of what was agreed at the time.
Mrs B says the agreement was misrepresented to her. A misrepresentation is an untrue 
statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a contract, causing a loss to be 
suffered. Ive considered whats most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs B says she was told by the salesperson that she could settle the agreement for £6000 
after 24 months. Theres no written record of the discussions between Mrs B and the 
salesperson and I wasnt present, so I cant be certain of what was said. So, I cant be 
certain that an untrue statement was made. Even if the salesperson did say that the 
agreement could be settled for £6000, Im not persuaded that this was the sole, or the main, 
reason why Mrs B entered into the agreement. Taking everything into account, there isnt 
enough evidence to show that theres been a misrepresentation.
That said, MBFS has acknowledged that it didnt send a copy of the agreement to Mrs B. It 
has also acknowledged that it has no record of the welcome pack being sent to her. This of 
itself hasnt caused a direct or indirect financial loss to Mrs B. And because Mrs B has had 
the use of the car since October 2019, I dont think it would be fair to ask MBFS to refund 
any monthly payments or reduce the optional final payment beyond what it has already 
offered to do. I think the offer to waive interest is a fair resolution to its failure to provide Mrs 
B with the agreement.
In relation to compensation for non-financial loss, MBFS has offered £200 for poor service. I 
think its right that MBFS recognise that it failed to do what it shouldve done and I think the 
sum of £200 is reasonable. However, I also think MBFS should pay further compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B as a result of the service failings. I agree 
with the investigator that the sum of £200 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes -Benz Financial Services Limited 
must pay £200 to Mrs B for distress and inconvenience in addition to the sums already 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman