DRN-4391883
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of a limited company L about how FMG Support (FIM) Ltd 
(FMG) handled a claim under a motor insurance policy.
What happened
L had a motor insurance policy arranged through a broker, who Ill refer to as C, protecting a 
van which was used for business purposes.
In October 2021 the catalytic convertor was stolen from the van. L made a claim by 
contacting C. C appointed FMG to handle Ls claim.
L chose its own repairer to carry out repairs as one was close by. L arranged an estimate for 
repairs, which was authorised by the insurer on 25 October 2021.
The repairer experienced a substantial delay sourcing the replacement parts and in February 
2022 L asked the insurer to assist. The insurer arranged for the van to be assessed and 
repaired by one of its approved network.
L has made a separate complaint against the insurer of its policy about delays during the 
claim. That complaint was not upheld by this service because L initially chose its own 
repairer and the insurer could not be responsible for some further delays as they were 
relatively minor or outside of the insurers control.
L complained to FMG about the delays. FMG issued a final response saying it should have 
communicated with L better.
L brought its complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She said FMG should pay L 
£100 for its poor communication and pay loss of use for the van at £20 per day from 
November 2021 to February 2022.
L accepted the view but FMG didnt respond. Because it didnt respond, this complaint has 
been passed to me to made a decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider the matter further:
Im intending to uphold Ls complaint and Im issuing this as a provisional decision to clarify 
the amount of the loss of use I think FMG needs to pay.
I can see from the evidence already in the file that two key dates are readily apparent:
30/11  COR awaiting parts
04/02  Client requested use of network garage. Advised client he would be liable for 
any costs with COR if we reallocate
I cant see that FMG made any efforts to move Ls claim forward in any way until L contacted 
it to complain. And I dont think thats good service from FMG.
Id therefore take those dates as being the period during which FMG failed to progress Ls 
claim, and therefore its for that period I think FMG need to pay for Ls loss of use of the van.
This is 66 days in total, and I can see that L has already accepted an amount of £20 per day 
for loss of use of the van. I can see from Ls evidence that the van was used both during the 
week and at weekends so the loss of use is relevant for all days of the week and the total 
amount would be £1,320.
I can also see that FMGs communications with L were poor, and I think FMG should also 
pay L £100 for its inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning remain 
unchanged.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct FMG Support (FIM) Ltd to pay L:
£1,320 for its loss of use of the van, and
£100 for its inconvenience.
FMG Support (FIM) Ltd must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it L 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman