DRN-2595768
The complaint
Miss T complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund payments she didnt make from her 
account.
What happened
Miss T says that she didnt make cash withdrawals (including fees) totalling £551.90 from 
her account. She says that she lost her card on 26 September 2020 and doesnt know how 
someone found out her PIN.
Metro Bank said it wouldnt be refunding her money. The withdrawals were made when the 
chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered first time. It didnt think that 
the pattern of use of the card was consistent with fraud. And there was no clear way in which 
someone had discovered the PIN.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss T said she had last 
made a genuine payment at a pay at pump at 19.24 on 26 September 2020. She said she 
didnt make the balance enquiry recorded using the card at 21:50. No money had been 
withdrawn until after a further balance enquiry at 22:45. There were no PIN errors and the 
first attempt to take out money was for £51.99 (including a fee) at 22:45 which didnt go 
through due to a cash machine error. A successful withdrawal of £250 was made at 22:51. 
Attempts were made to take out more cash, but these were declined as they were in excess 
of the daily cash withdrawal limit. A further balance enquiry was made at 00:08 the next 
morning and a withdrawal of £251.90 made. Miss T had accessed her online banking at 
19:44 and then at 02:15 and reported what had happened. There had been no other attempt 
to use the card suggesting the person using it knew it had been blocked. 
She didnt think that the use of the card was consistent with a fraudster wanting to take out 
as much money as quickly as possible. And Miss T had said she hadnt told anyone her PIN 
and it seemed unlikely someone could have seen it at the petrol station. Miss T had 
explained that no one was standing close to her and the pumps would have been well 
spaced. She said she put her card back into her bag and had gone to her boyfriends house. 
She remained there until about 22:00 and then went home. So, shed either needed to have 
dropped the card or someone would have had access to her bag. Nothing else was missing.
Miss T didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said she didnt make 
these payments and still cant understand how someone had got her PIN. Miss T said she 
had reported this to the police, but they hadnt been able to get CCTV and she had provided 
Metro Bank with a crime number.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Miss T wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Miss T authorise the payments on the account, including by possibly allowing 
someone else to use the card?
Ive seen the audit logs for the use of the card which correspond to the summary provided by 
our investigator. Im satisfied the disputed payments were made with the genuine card and 
correct PIN.
I need to think about whether Miss T consented to the payments. I wont be able to say 
exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most likely. Miss Ts position is that an 
unknown third party made these withdrawals. Id need to think all of the following happened 
for this to be the most likely explanation:
- The third party managed to obtain Miss Ts card. As our investigator says Miss T had 
the card at 19:24. She could have dropped it, or someone could have had access to her 
bag but nothing else was lost or taken.
- The PIN was discovered. Miss T entered her PIN at a pay at pump. Its not impossible 
she was seen doing so. But she cant remember anyone close to her.
- Miss T by coincidence checked her balance relatively close to the disputed transactions 
and then just a couple of hours after them in the early hours when she said she had 
returned home and later woken up.
- The unknown third party made no attempt to use the card before 21:50. That risked 
Miss T realising what had happened and blocking the card. And at that time didnt try 
and take any money out. The first attempted withdrawal wasnt until 22:45 and was only 
for £50 plus fees rather than the maximum amount. 
- Having been unsuccessful in getting more cash that evening the fraudster made no 
other attempts to use the card for payments using chip and PIN bearing in mind Ive 
seen that Miss T then had a significant balance in the account.
- The third party made a further withdrawal in the early hours of the next day but then for 
some reason made no other attempts to use the card seeming to know that it had been 
cancelled.
Im afraid I dont consider that all of these were most likely to have happened and so I dont 
think that an unknown third party had obtained Miss Ts card and PIN.
Miss T is clear she didnt give the PIN to anyone else. She was reasonably required to keep 
it safe and I dont see a point when someone else known to her could have obtained it and 
used her card with in in this way without her knowing. And so, I consider that it is most likely 
she consented to these payments either by making them herself or allowing someone else to 
use the card.
So, Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require Metro Bank to do anything further 
and I find it can hold Miss T responsible for the payments she disputes.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman