DRN-3981903
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) paid to the 
wrong party the proceeds of Mr Cs life policy and refuses to seek to recover those proceeds 
or to pay them to the estates administrator.
The complaint is brought on behalf of the estate by the sole administrator of the estate, 
Mr Cs son. When I refer below to the administrator, I refer to him.
What happened
Mr C died in June 2022. His daughter registered his death in July. She contacted LV later in 
July and claimed the proceeds of Mr Cs LV life policy. LV paid these to her, which I gather 
amounted to over £13,000. Mr Cs son was made sole administrator of the estate by a grant 
of Letters of Administration (LOA) in October. When he applied to LV on behalf of the estate 
for the policy proceeds, he found LV had already paid these to Mr Cs daughter. So he 
complained. He said the result of LVs act was he would have to take expensive legal action 
to recover the funds, and he said LV should recover the funds instead.
LV rejected the complaint. It said it had followed its own processes properly and it was not 
for LV to become involved in disputes between the beneficiaries of an estate. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought LV had acted fairly. In essence this is 
because our investigator was satisfied LV had followed its own claims process correctly. In 
summary this meant that for a policy below a certain value, LV wouldnt wait to pay the 
legally appointed representative of the estate but instead would be willing to pay a close 
relative, like a daughter if there were no living spouse.
The administrator rejected our investigators conclusions. He said, amongst other things, that 
LV had failed to contact the named beneficiaries on the policy, that the investigator was 
wrong to say there werent named beneficiaries as LV had mentioned them and it was wrong 
to dismiss this as having been an error, that the investigator ought to have asked to see the 
surrendered policy and had only seen what LV wanted to show, that if the administrator and 
Mr Cs daughter werent named on the policy then LV shouldnt have paid it to the latter, that 
legally the estate should have been divided equally amongst surviving children and that LV 
had paid the proceeds out before anyone could reasonably have obtained a grant of LOA.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide. Before I 
go further, Id like to say Im sorry for the administrators loss of his father and I extend my 
condolences to him at this sad time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same outcome as our investigator. So Ive decided not to 
ask LV to do more and not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
LV says the policy itself didnt say who should receive the benefit when Mr C died. It has 
sent screenshots to show Mr C hadnt used the facility to name people to benefit from the 
policy or to specify their share of its benefits. Also theres no evidence the policy was held in 
trust. So despite reference to beneficiaries in exchanges LV had with the administrator, I find 
neither Mr Cs daughter nor the administrator were named on the policy as beneficiaries. 
Im satisfied the policy wasnt subject to trust and its benefits werent otherwise earmarked 
for particular persons. For example, Im satisfied there isnt in existence a copy Mr Cs policy 
specifying particular beneficiaries. As such the policy proceeds belonged to Mr Cs estate. 
Such proceeds should be paid to the legally appointed representative of the estate. Where, 
as in Mr Cs case, there is no will naming an executor and no living spouse, Mr Cs children 
were the next entitled to apply for a grant appointing them to administer the estate. Mr Cs 
son and daughter were both entitled to apply for this. Mr Cs son did apply without including 
Mr Cs daughter as a joint applicant and notes held by LV say Mr Cs daughter didnt know 
Mr Cs son was going to apply for the grant. From whats been said, Mr Cs daughter applied 
to receive the policy proceeds also without the knowledge of Mr Cs son.
As for how the estate proceeds should be distributed where there is no will and no living 
spouse, the children are entitled to equal shares of the estate. Equal entitlement to an estate 
means an equal share of the whole. But an equal entitlement doesnt mean each beneficiary 
will get the same things or share equally in the value of any particular asset. So if Mr C had 
two children, it doesnt mean his daughter should have been paid half the policy proceeds or 
no more than half. How the division of assets is organised will vary. If there is disagreement 
between the parties as to how to divide assets between them and if this cant be resolved 
between the parties, such matters may have to be decided by a court.
For example, in this case the value of Mr Cs estate was stated by the administrator on the 
LOA application as being £48,500. He has told us Mr Cs daughter took more than £49,000 
from Mr Cs bank account and spent money on Mr Cs credit cards. These claims and the 
basis on which Mr Cs daughter considered herself entitled to such funds from the estate, 
are factors that would need to be weighed by a court if adjudicating on a dispute over the 
distribution of assets amongst the estates beneficiaries. 
It wasnt for LV to share out the proceeds between beneficiaries or to try to decide to what 
share of the policy proceeds Mr Cs daughter was entitled. I agree LV wasnt responsible for 
finding out who all the potential beneficiaries were, what the estate assets were, what people 
had already received and what their entitlement to the policy proceeds might be in light of all 
of that. So it wasnt that LV should have paid half each to the administrator and to Mr Cs 
daughter. It was enough to pay the proceeds to a single person who could then distribute 
them to those entitled to receive them. But LV had to pay the policy proceeds to someone 
entitled to receive those proceeds on behalf of Mr Cs estate. 
Once appointed, the administrator was the legally appointed representative of the estate and 
is responsible for collecting estate assets and ensuring the estate proceeds were distributed 
correctly. But no administrator had been appointed in July at the time LV made the payment, 
and one would not be appointed until more than two months later in October. 
LV says the payment it made was in line with its process, and Ive seen no reason to doubt 
that - but this isnt, of course, in itself enough to justify LV making the payment in that way or 
to absolve LV of responsibility if it ought to have acted differently and caused loss to the 
estate as a result. Ive considered this carefully. 
LV couldnt have been criticised if it had insisted on paying the policy proceeds out only to a 
person holding a grant of representation. But I would point out that a formal grant isnt always obtained, and it is possible to collect estate assets and share them out without this in 
some instances. LVs commercial decision to pay the funds without a grant should be seen 
in this context. Also LV didnt pay the proceeds to Mr Cs daughter knowing a grant was held 
by someone else seeking the funds  no grant had been obtained by anyone at that point. 
As I understand it, LV paid out the policy proceeds to Mr Cs daughter because she was in 
possession of the death certificate (which also stated she was the daughter) and, as there 
was no living spouse (a point supported by details on the death certificate), she held the rank 
of next of kin, being the next closest relative. The administrator says the title of next of kin is 
meaningless, but I dont agree. It was significant here because it means the person LV paid 
was someone in the highest rank of people entitled to obtain a grant if LV had insisted on 
one. Mr Cs sons right to seek to represent the estate was equal to, not superior to, Mr Cs 
daughters at that time  and both also had a right to the same share of the estate assets. 
Mr Cs daughter was also named on the death certificate, so LV will have known the person 
it was paying the proceeds to was Mr Cs daughter and it had her details. It also checked 
she was who she said she was  and there is no dispute that she was the daughter.
Ultimately anyone receiving funds - whether Mr Cs daughter or the administrator or anyone 
else  would have a duty to give up or pass on any part of the estate proceeds to which they 
were not entitled. LV relied on this happening and in my view it wasnt unreasonable for LV 
to rely on this  or if it couldnt rely on this, then there was a likelihood of a dispute of some 
kind arising between beneficiaries in any event.  
With this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont see that LV acted unreasonably in paying 
Mr Cs daughter the proceeds of the policy.
Ive also thought about whether the approach LV took means it caused loss to the estate or 
ought to involve itself in attempting to recover funds from a beneficiary entitled to part of the 
estate who it is alleged by another beneficiary has taken more than their fair share. Had LV 
insisted on waiting for and only dealing with a person having the LOA, I dont see that this 
was bound to avoid the problem of a person receiving the proceeds but not sharing them out 
properly  or bound to avoid the need for court action to determine how things should be 
divided. I note in passing that had LV told Mr Cs daughter it would pay out the policy 
proceeds only to a person named as a representative on a grant of representation, it isnt 
obvious that she couldnt have applied for and been named on such a grant and obtained 
the policy proceeds, bringing about the same or a similar situation to the one that did occur.
I cant be sure exactly how things might have unfolded in that eventuality of course, but I 
mention this possibility to illustrate that it seems to me any misallocation of resources of the 
kind that the administrator has explained has arisen between beneficiaries, is in my view at 
root the result of an absence of agreement between the beneficiaries of the estate. It also 
seems to me that this alleged misallocation of resources is not a loss to the estate as such, 
but a dispute between beneficiaries about the allocation of estate resources. LV has said it 
would liaise with the administrator, his solicitor or the police to help them look into this. In my 
view this is a reasonable approach for LV to take. 
I bear in mind there is a potential for costs to arise for the estate depending on what steps 
the administrator finds are needed to recover funds from parties holding them who are not 
entitled to them. But in the circumstances here I find that such costs, at root, are caused by 
and result from a lack of agreement between the beneficiaries as to the rights over the 
estate assets, rather than from how LV made its payment. It isnt obvious to me that costs of 
this kind  if incurred  wouldnt have been incurred anyway due to this lack of agreement. In 
saying this I bear in mind for example what the administrator has said about how other 
assets of the estate have been taken or disposed of by the other beneficiary.I bear in mind also what Ive said above about how the other beneficiary might have applied 
for a grant to represent the estate and obtained estate proceeds in that way, although setting 
that point aside wouldnt change the substance of my conclusions here.
LVs approach, in paying the proceeds to Mr Cs daughter, may well have caused the 
administrator extra work and inconvenience. I acknowledge this but I have no power to make 
an award for inconvenience of that kind suffered by the administrator of an estate. I can 
make no award for inconvenience suffered by the administrator in his personal capacity as 
beneficiary of the estate either, because he isnt bringing the complaint to us in his capacity 
as an estate beneficiary - and he wouldnt be eligible to do so in that capacity in any event. I 
can only consider the complaint from him in his capacity as the representative of the estate.
In conclusion and taking everything into account, on balance Im not persuaded that it would 
be fair and reasonable to require LV to do more in all the circumstances here or that I ought 
to make an award against LV in favour of the estate.
So in light of all Ive said above, for the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Im grateful to the administrator for his prompt and complete responses to all our enquiries, 
which have assisted our investigation, and I thank him for his assistance throughout. Im 
sorry my conclusion will disappoint him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman