DRN-4255498
The complaint
Mr F and Mr R are unhappy with the way in which their claim has been handled by AWP 
P&C SA after making a claim on their travel insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. And a duty to handle insurance 
claims fairly and promptly. 
For the reasons set out below, I dont think AWP has acted fairly and reasonably in the way 
in which its handled Mr F and Mr Rs claim.
In its correspondence dated October 2022, AWP agreed to pay the claim made on 
the policy. That included the costs Mr F personally paid including some medical costs 
such as a fracture boot and crutches for Mr R whilst abroad, and an upgrade to the 
return flight back to the UK (the expenses personally paid). 
The cost of the flight had been approved at the end of January 2022, and AWP didnt 
make payment until many months after Mr F and Mr R submitted their claim (minus 
the excess  which AWP was entitled deduct under the policy terms). Im not 
persuaded that there was good reason for this delay, and I dont think AWP acted 
fairly and reasonably. 
Im satisfied that Mr F was reasonably chasing AWP for updates during this time, 
often without substantive reply, and was asked to submit documents in support of the 
claim more than once. Im satisfied this caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr F and Mr R also claimed for medical costs charged by the medical facility. Despite 
AWP agreeing to cover this claim, I dont think this invoice has been settled. Ive 
been provided with documentary evidence that Mr R is personally being chased for 
payment on behalf of the medical facility - for example letters dated January and 
March 2023. 
I accept this has caused Mr F and Mr R additional unnecessary worry and frustration 
and this wouldve been exacerbated by AWPs failure to reply to requests seeking 
confirmation as to whether the medical facilitys invoice has now been settled. 
Im satisfied that £350 fairly and reasonably reflects the cumulative distress and 
inconvenience experienced by Mr F and Mr R. 
Putting things right
The parties accepted the recommendations of our investigator set out in her view dated 18 
November 2022. I understand that AWP has now reimbursed Mr F and Mr R for the 
expenses personally paid and that its also paid Mr F and Mr R compensation in the sum of 
£250 for distress and inconvenience recommended by our investigator. However, there 
remains payments outstanding. 
Within 28 days from the date on which our Service notifies AWP that Mr F and Mr R accepts 
my final decision, I direct AWP to:
pay the outstanding claim, subject to any financial limits of the policy - including 
settling the medical facilitys expenses.  
pay additional compensation to Mr F and Mr R in the sum of £100 to reflect the 
additional distress and inconvenience theyve experienced by AWP not promptly 
settling the medical facilitys invoice. To be clear, thats on top of the £250 
compensation AWP has already paid in response to our investigators view.
pay to Mr F and Mr R an amount to reflect simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum 
from the date on which Mr F and Mr R first made the claim under the policy with 
supporting documentary evidence of the expenses personally paid, to the date on 
which the expenses personally paid were settled by AWP. 
If AWP considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr F and Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one. That way Mr F and Mr R can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman