DRN-2860931
The complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was acting unfairly when it offered 
him a partial refund for a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
In January 2015 Mr C purchased a large aquarium costing £2,199 for his home using 
his credit card with Capital One. The aquarium came with a ten-year guarantee. Mr C 
says he noticed a scratch on the tank and so the retailer replaced it.
In December 2018 Mr C noticed the aquarium appeared to have started leaking. He 
consulted the retailer who had provided the aquarium to him and was advised to continue 
to use it as the issue could only be superficial and not something of concern.
However, in February 2019 water poured out of the back of the aquarium causing some 
damage to Mr Cs home. The aquarium was inspected, and Mr C was told that the cause 
of the leak was due to the premature failure of the silicon seals due to the glass flexing 
as it wasnt properly supported.
The aquarium had to be emptied and Mr C needed to store the fish elsewhere. He 
contacted the suppling retailer to complain. They declined to replace the tank but offered 
another at a reduced cost. Mr C made a claim under section 75 to Capital One.
Capital One at first declined Mr Cs claim, but on Mr Cs request reviewed that decision. It 
agreed to uphold the claim as the aquarium had been supplied with a manufacturing fault 
and hadnt lasted as long as would have reasonably been expected in light of the 
guarantee. However, Capital One said that it was fair to take into account the use Mr C 
had had of the aquarium before it failed when deciding on the refund to be made to him. It 
offered him a partial reimbursement of the full cost of the aquarium amounting to 
£1,319.40. 
Mr C disagreed with Capital Ones decision to make a partial refund and complained to it. 
Capital One didnt uphold his complaint and so he complained to this service. Mr C also 
raised that he had suffered consequential losses.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He said he thought 
Capital One had acted fairly in deducting the use Mr C had had from the aquarium as he 
had four years without any issue.
Our investigator also said that as Mr C hadnt produced proof of consequential losses, 
he wouldnt consider those.
Mr C disagreed with the view of our investigator and raised a number of consequential 
losses he said he had also incurred. He said that the aquarium hadnt been fit for 
purpose from the time hed bought it due to the faulty manufacture.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Mr C's complaint was that Capital One had offered to only a partial refund the cost the 
aquarium following his claim under section 75. Section 75 gives a consumer, in certain 
circumstances, equal right to claim a refund against the supplier of goods or services and 
the provider of credit, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the 
supplier. Here, Mr C had met the requirements of a section 75 claim so, my role was to 
decide whether Capital One had handled Mr C's fairly and reasonably.
Mr C had provided further evidence about the depth of the glass used and raised that the 
aquarium hadnt been fit for purpose. I didnt think it was disputed that the aquarium 
wasnt of satisfactory quality or that the leak was caused by the premature failure of the 
seals which had been unexpected. So, I thought it was accepted there had been a 
breach of contract. The issue was whether Capital One had acted fairly by making a 
deduction for the four years of use Mr C had been able to enjoy before the aquarium 
became unusable.
The sale of the aquarium was covered by the Sales of Goods Act 1979 and under that act 
if goods were found to be faulty at the point of sale then the consumer was entitled to 
reject them in a reasonable time. A reasonable time isnt defined but if it is considered 
too late to reject them, then the faulty goods should be replaced or repaired. If the retailer 
doesnt do either of these actions, then the consumer can either claim a reduction on the 
purchase price or their money back less an amount for the usage they have had of the 
goods.
As Mr C had been able to use the aquarium for four years before the seals failed, I 
thought it was fair to say that this length of time was too long to now be entitled to a full 
refund. Id seen that repairing the aquarium wasnt possible as there was an inherent 
fault. Replacement was offered by the retailer, but Mr C had been expected to pay 
towards that. This left Mr C in the position of either seeking a reduction on the cost of the 
aquarium or seeking his money back. He had chosen to seek a refund and I thought 
Capital One had acted fairly in applying a deduction to that amount for use when settling 
Mr Cs section 75 claim.
In working out a usage cost, Id seen that Capital One had used the ten-year guarantee 
period in its calculation of how long the aquarium would have been expected to last. I 
thought this had been reasonable and so I wasnt going to ask it to adjust the amount of 
£1,319.40 that it had offered to pay Mr C.
Mr C had raised consequential losses, I wasnt sure why he hadnt raised these with 
Capital One at the time hed made his section 75 claim. Id seen that he had made a 
claim under his household insurance at around the same time though this claim covered 
damage to his property. However, Mr C had asked that he was now reimbursed for the 
cost of the fish that had either died or were given away as the aquarium had to be 
emptied, for the cost of a power pump, heater stats, air pump and utility pump together 
with fitting new piping that had to be cut when removing the aquarium. Mr C says the 
total costs amounted to £869.97 of which £355 was for the fish. 
Mr C provided a short report from someone who provided aquariums and equipment 
and I assumed was therefore knowledgeable in the setting up and running of this 
equipment. They had costed out items that they said theyd found damaged as a result 
of the leaking aquarium. However, this report wasnt clear whether the costs set out were for new items to be purchased as opposed to the actual value of the items Mr C 
had at the time. And this was important because I didnt think it would be fair to require 
Capital One to cover the costs of setting up a new aquarium with brand new motors and 
pumps.
This is because any consequential loss should reflect the actual value of those items 
that had been  damaged. So, age, wear and tear all need to be considered when 
calculating any reimbursement. As Mr C had set up the aquarium four years ago I 
thought it was fair to assume any equipment he had wouldnt have been new when the 
leak happened. This meant that, on the evidence I had, I was unable to quantify the 
value of any consequential losses. And where Im unable to do so it would be unfair to 
ask Capital One to make any reimbursement to Mr C for the items set out in the report.
In respect of the fish, the invoice was dated 2017 and I thought it would be fair to 
assume their value would have decreased over time due to their expected life spans, 
illness etc. Again, I was unable to quantify what the real value of the fish would have 
been at the time the aquarium failed and in the absence of any other evidence I thought 
it wouldnt be fair to ask Capital One to reimburse this cost to Mr C.
So, in these circumstances I thought Capital Ones offer to pay Mr C a total reimbursement 
of £1,319.40 for the defective aquarium was fair and reasonable. And for the reasons given I 
wasnt going to ask it to reimburse any consequential losses as I was unable to satisfactorily 
quantify what those costs would be from the evidence that had been provided.
I was therefore partially upholding Mr Cs complaint in that I was asking Capital One to pay 
him £1,319.40 in respect of his claim under section 75 for the faulty aquarium.
Capital One hasnt asked me to look at any anything further. Mr C enquired whether Capital 
One would reimburse him for the cost of having the aquarium removed from his home as 
due to its size he would need to hire people to assist him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided me with any further evidence to consider. Mr C has raised the 
costs of removing the aquarium and I asked him to provide me with proof about that such as 
invoice but unfortunately, he hasnt done so.
Although I wasnt asked to look at any parts of my provisional decision again, I have 
reviewed it and, having done so, I havent changed my mind. I think Capital Ones approach 
regarding the amount to be reimbursed to Mr C for the faulty aquarium was fair and reflected 
the four years of use he was able to enjoy from it.
While I appreciate there may have been some consequential losses for Mr C arising from the 
faulty aquarium, to require Capital One to reimburse Mr C any of these additional costs I 
need to be satisfied that the amount of a repayment was fair. For the reasons given above, I 
have been unable to quantify what additional losses were suffered by Mr C. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to ask Capital One to reimburse Mr C more than 
the £1,319.40 it has already offered for Mr Cs section 75 claim.
As Mr C also hasnt been able to provide any proof regarding the potential removal costs of 
the aquarium from his home, Im not going to ask Capital One to cover that cost as I dont think its fair for me to do so without sight of a quote and explanation of how that quote was 
reached. 
For the reasons given above, my decision is unchanged, and Im partially upholding Mr Cs 
complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Capital One to reimburse Mr C the amount of £1,319.40 in respect of his claim 
under section 75 for the faulty aquarium    
My final decision
For the reasons given Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint and I am asking Capital 
One (Europe) plc to pay Mr C £1,319.40 as a partial refund for the faulty aquarium that 
was the subject of his claim under section 75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman