DRN-3365241
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society has unfairly declined their claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a timeshare product 
they were sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D purchased a trial membership timeshare through a timeshare provider 
(Company A) in July 2012. The membership was to last for three years and cost Mr and 
Mrs D £3950.00. This was paid for using Mr Ds Nationwide credit card.
Mr and Mrs D said this was purchased after they received a phone call from Company A, 
inviting them to a seven-night stay at one of its resorts for £99.00. The only condition of the 
holiday was that Mr and Mrs D attend a sales presentation while away. They were told this 
would last no longer than 90 minutes. 
Mr and Mrs D said the presentation lasted almost an entire day with different sales 
representatives taking them through the timeshare details at different points. It was at the 
end of this sales presentation that Mr and Mrs D chose to purchase the trial membership 
after explaining they couldnt afford or want to pay for the full membership at a higher price 
of £10,000. Theyve said that they were told this price would be honoured later if they chose 
to upgrade, providing they purchased the trial membership that day.  
Mr and Mrs D believe the product was mis-represented with the following points highlighted:  
- The timeshare was an investment and could be sold at a later date for profit.
- That the timeshare was affiliated with timeshare exchange schemes. This meant Mr 
and Mrs D could trade any weeks they didnt use each year into these schemes for 
10,000 points towards other holidays within the scheme.
Mr and Mrs D used the timeshare for their first holiday in 2013 and during this holiday, 
attended another sales presentation. At this presentation they were persuaded to trade in 
the trial membership and pay a further £2990.00 for a full membership. They say it was only 
after this full membership was taken out that they realised the representations made about 
being able to use the untrue. Their upgraded membership was paid for by a different credit 
card and this transaction cancelled the trial membership with the new timeshare and contract 
being issued for the full membership. 
It was when trying to use the benefits of the new timeshare that Mr and Mrs D say they 
realised Company A had misrepresented the trial membership contract. 
Nationwide declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim under s75 CCA. They felt the points raised in 
relation to alleged misrepresentation and breach of contract related to the second later 
agreement. As this was not paid for with the Nationwide card, it didnt believe it had any 
liability over this.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ds claim and said she didnt think Nationwide acted 
unfairly when the claim was declined.  She acknowledged the complaint letter brought by Mr 
and Mrs D and their representative didnt distinguish between the two sales but she 
considered the points made in relation to the trial membership when considering whether 
Nationwide acted fairly. She explained another complaint against the other credit card 
supplier would address the points in relation to the full membership purchased in 2013.
She didnt think it was likely that the trial membership was sold as an investment. She said 
the product doesnt contain the potential for a return of money at the end of the term nor 
does it provide a tangible asset. She thought Mr and Mrs Ds rights to use the timeshare 
exchanges only arose following the second purchase, so she didnt think the arguments 
about what they were told applied to the purchase of the trial membership. So she couldnt 
say whether there was any misrepresentation on this point when the trial membership was 
taken out.
She acknowledged that the sales techniques used by the sales agents would have made 
saying no more difficult, but she didnt think this was the same as Mr and Mrs D feeling as 
though they had no choice but to take the product. Without more detail in relation to this 
element of their complaint, she didnt think it was fair to say the sale was unfair and Mr and 
Mrs D had no option but to say yes to the purchase.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They felt that as the trial membership had been traded in to pay for 
the full membership, Nationwide could be responsible for some of the things that went wrong 
with the 2013 purchase. They said the sales tactics were intimidating and they were 
effectively brain washed with multiple sales agents going through the timeshare benefits 
over the course of the day.
Because they didnt agree with our view, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs D but Ill explain why.
Ahead of covering why Im not upholding this complaint; it is important to draw the distinction 
between this complaint and the other Mr and Mrs D has with our service. When considering 
the actions of Nationwide and whether it has acted fairly when declining Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim under s75 CCA, I am only looking at the trial membership. That is because that was 
the agreement funded by the use of the Nationwide credit card. I accept that the trial 
membership was then traded in to reduce the cost of the full membership, but as a 
Nationwide credit card wasnt used to pay for the 2013 purchase, Nationwide cant be 
responsible for things that went wrong under that agreement. But Im addressing whether I 
think Nationwide made a fair claim decision when declining the claim for the purchase made 
with its card only.
Mr and Mrs D have made a claim under s75 CCA. This part of the act gives them an equal 
right to claim against Nationwide, the credit provider, for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. To agree there has been a misrepresentation, Id need to be satisfied 
Company A made a false statement to Mr and Mrs D when they purchased the timeshare.
Ive considered whether I think Nationwide acted fairly when it rejected Mr and Mrs Ds s75 
claim. If I think there was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier or the contract was breached, Id expect Nationwide to take account of this when dealing with the claim.
Mr and Mrs D say the timeshare was sold to them as an investment which could be sold in 
the future. And promises were made in relation to being able to use timeshare exchanges. 
Ive thought about each of these in turn.
Did Company A misrepresent the timeshare as an investment?
The timeshare Mr and Mrs D purchased was a trial membership. Theyve said they chose 
this over a full timeshare during the initial sales meeting as the price of the full membership 
was too expensive. The information provided by Mr and Mrs D in relation to the timeshare 
doesnt show it to be detailed as an investment. The contract makes it clear the introductory 
timeshare cannot be exchanged and the product entitles the member to three weeks (or 
shorter) holidays at Company As resorts over a three-year period. 
Mr and Mrs D havent been clear on what was said in relation to the timeshare to make them 
believe it was an investment. Ive seen no mention of promises made over returns or 
guarantees on what they could expect to receive. And with the membership being a trial 
membership, I think its unlikely long-term benefits were mentioned during the sale  this 
product was only ever due to run for three years from the date of the first holiday. 
I appreciate recollections may differ and the second sale which Im not considering under 
this reference, may have talked about longer term goals. But Ive not seen anything in 
relation to the sale in 2012 which leads me to believe that the timeshare was presented as 
an investment.
Was the timeshare misrepresented as being able to be traded through exchange 
schemes?
Mr and Mrs D said they bought the timeshare with the belief that they could, trade their week 
in and receive points which could be used towards other holidays when they were unable to 
use it. And theyd save these traded/banked points towards future, special holidays. They 
realised after theyd upgraded to the full membership that the timeshare  didnt give them 
what they expected. 
I understand that with two sales for two timeshares over the short space of time that Mr and 
Mrs D may well believe the benefits of the full timeshare were reflective of the trial 
membership too. But from looking at the contract for the trial membership and what this says 
was provided with this membership, I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs D were told this 
product could be used with an exchange scheme or that it could be transferred.
Although the contract for full timeshare does talk about the benefits of being affiliated with 
these schemes in some detail, the trial membership doesnt. It is a different product with 
different benefits and no details of the schemes are mentioned. And it makes it clear that 
holidays are restricted to use by Company A introductory members are not transferable.
So while I understand it is likely that Mr and Mrs D could have assumed the trial membership 
was the same as the full membership they later upgraded too, I think there is clear 
differences. And while Company A might have discussed the benefits of the schemes when 
talking about the full membership, this didnt apply to the trial membership. So Im not 
persuaded the trial membership was presented as being able to be traded and exchange for 
benefits under the schemes. Overall, thinking about their circumstances at the time of the sale and how the sales process 
took place, I think it is unlikely a court would determine this created an unfair relationship 
under s140A of the CCA.
Was there a breach of contract?
Mr and Mrs D say that there was a breach of contract that Nationwide can be responsible for 
under s75 CCA. They have pointed to a number of European Directives and UK Regulations 
that they say were breached, in particular by taking a deposit at the point of sale, by not 
providing sufficient information and by pressuring them into taking out the trial membership. 
Our investigator explained why she didnt think there was enough to say there was 
excessive pressure applied to make them take out membership.
But even if I did think there was a pressured sale or the other breaches of regulations that 
have been pointed out, I dont think that would mean Nationwide needed to do anything. I 
say that those problems wouldnt be a breach of contract as is required under s.75 CCA, so I 
dont think Nationwide would be responsible under that provision.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to demonstrate that Nationwide has made an unfair 
claims decision when turning down Mr and Mrs Ds claim under s75 of the CCA.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman