DRN-3653771
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as MBNA) wont refund money he lost to what 
he believes are investment scammers. 
What happened
Mr K found patronfx.com on social media as he was interested in a long term investment. 
Shortly after he signed up to their website, he was contacted by their representative. He was 
subsequently assigned a senior account manager who explained how investing and 
leverage works and helped him get to the highest possible leverage by suggesting it was 
less risk. At that time Mr K didnt know the difference between investing and trading. He later 
found out that trading is speculative and high risk and he never speculates or gambles. 
Mr K carried out extensive research on patronfx.com and saw they were FCA approved and 
regulated in Cyprus. He also saw legitimate reviews. He decided to invest using various 
payment methods.
 
In March 2021, Mr K paid a total of £5,000 to patronfx.com, across three payments, using his 
MBNA Mastercard credit card. In total, he received a credit of £269.14 from them. 
Mr K says his first deposit was £5,000 but his account manager asked him to raise £25,000 
for a platinum account which had lower rates on commission and access to senior account 
manager services. Mr K didnt have these funds readily accessible and his account manager 
encouraged him to take loans and credit cards. Shortly after he funded his account with 
larger sums, the account balance was depleted. 
Mr Ks account manager told him that the market conditions were unfavourable which is why 
he lost money but if he paid more money they would try to recover his losses. After a couple 
of weeks, Mr K received an email from patronfx.com explaining that they stopped trading in 
the UK and his account would be closed. He had approximately £460 left in his trading 
account, which was refunded to his bank account. 
Mr K did some further research and found hed been scammed. He spoke with a few claims 
management companies but realised they too were scams. He contacted Lloyds to process 
claims for him under S75 as he felt patronfx.com misrepresented their services and 
breached their contract with him. He saved proof of telephone conversations he had with 
them. 
Lloyds considered Mr Ks S75 complaint but it didnt think it was applicable to Mr K as he 
invested with a trading company. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and didnt think MBNA acted 
unreasonably by declining his S75 claim. Mr K didnt agree. He asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman and it has now been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact 
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Mr Ks case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent.   
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that patronfx.com had no adverse 
information reported about them at the time Mr K authorised his payments. What I have 
noted is that they were regulated by CySEC at the time of Mr Ks payments with passporting 
rights through the FCA - which meant they could offer services to UK customers.  
Ive also noted that the FCA removed passporting rights from patronfx.com on 12 April 2021 
but this was after Mr K had sent all of his payments. Mr K says when patronfx.com told him 
they could no longer offer services to UK customers, they returned the available funds in his 
trading account. This appears to be what they were instructed to do. 
So whilst I accept Mr K lost significant sums, Ive not seen enough credible evidence to 
persuade me that patronfx.com was a scam company. 
With that being said, I have considered whether MBNA acted unreasonably when choosing 
to decline his S75 claim. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
For S75 to have been a valid option there must have been an unbroken chain between the 
debtor (Mr K), creditor (MBNA) and the supplier (patronfx.com). Ill refer to this as the DCS 
chain. And any claim being made would have to have related to a breach of contract and/or 
a misrepresentation between Mr K and patronfx.com in relation to a contract that was funded 
by the MBNA credit card.
From my review of Mr Ks MBNA statements, patronfx.com are listed on his statements, so 
Im satisfied there was an unbroken DCS chain between Mr K and patronfx.com. Next is the consideration that the transactions are financed by the agreement. Here, the 
deposit onto a trading platform should have entitled Mr K to use the deposits on his trading 
account and withdraw them as and when he wished. So, Im satisfied his deposits financed 
this agreement with patronfx.com. 
Next is the consideration of Mr Ks claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract. 
I note the main ground Mr K is looking to rely on to establish this is that patronfx.com were 
scammers. Ive already explained above why Ive not seen any evidence that this has been 
proven.
Ive seen that Mr K was able to withdraw from his trading platform, so, I cant say that 
patronfx.com didnt process withdrawal requests for him. 
Mr K provided copies of some calls he recorded with his patronfx.com account manager. I 
have no doubt that he was encouraged to deposit more money on his trading platform and 
perhaps poor practices were used but I dont find that patronfx.com made 
misrepresentations or breached the contract they had with Mr K. They were careful with their 
wording to say that large profits were possible and this was true, albeit there was high risk 
involved with the nature of the investments Mr K was entering into. They may have been 
unsuitable for Mr K but I dont find that this amounts to a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Ive noted the paperwork Mr K received clearly highlighted the potential 
risks involved with his investment  including the fact that 57% of retailers lose money in 
trading CFDs with patronfx.com. 
Im of course sorry to hear Mr K lost a significant amount of money. But on the evidence Ive 
seen, Im not persuaded there is a reasonable basis upon which I can tell MBNA it needs to 
refund Mr Ks disputed payments. 
I note Mr K made a formal complaint to patronfx.com with the help of a solicitor and it offered 
a small settlement which he said hes not received. If he hasnt already, Mr K may wish to 
consider whether he has the option to refer his complaint about patronfx.com to The 
Financial Ombudsman of the Republic of Cyprus. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Ks losses, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman