DRN-2645057
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from U K Insurance Limited when he made a
claim on his travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr C has travel insurance as part of his packaged bank account. In January 2018 he was
involved in an accident abroad and incurred medical expenses. In August 2018 he made a
claim for his medical bills to be covered.
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Cs complaint in part and 
awarding a total of £850 compensation. In summary I said: 
It had taken far too long for UKI to settle the outstanding bills as they werent settled 
properly until the summer of 2020
Mr C was given assurances by UKI that the bills had been paid when they hadnt 
been paid
The delay in settling the claim led to complications and confusion in a related 
personal injury claim
I wasnt able to conclude, on the basis of the available evidence, that UKI had 
incorrectly paid one of the providers of Mr Cs medical care. Mr Cs solicitor was 
saying that they had issued a cheque to the provider. UKI said that they had settled 
the bill directly with the provider, because it hadnt been settled by the solicitor. I 
said that both parties had the chance to provide more information on this point as it 
was unclear whether the provider had been paid twice or not. 
Mr C said that he was happy with my findings. UKI said that it had sought clarity from the 
claims team about whether one of the providers had been paid twice. They said that the 
provider had only been paid once, by UKI, and not by Mr Cs solicitor. 
So, I now need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I set out that there were two invoices in dispute:
A bill for $1282 (for which Mr C has a liability of $1233)
A bill for $2725 
Im upholding this complaint in part. I say that because I am satisfied that: 
It took from August 2018 to the summer of 2020 to get all the bills sorted out and this 
caused Mr C distress and inconvenience. It left Mr C trying to resolve this issue and it 
impacted on the settlement arrangements of his personal injury claim. He was also 
told, incorrectly, that the bills had been settled  
Neither party has made any further comments or evidence in relation to the delays in 
settling the bills. So, theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion to the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision 
 
Mr C had access and control over the money which he needed to settle one of the 
invoices as it formed part of his personal injury settlement. So, hes not experienced 
a financial loss as hes able to settle that bill with the provider directly as he can take 
the money from the settlement figure to pay it. But I have taken into account the 
avoidable inconvenience caused when reaching my decision about the level of 
compensation UKI should pay
Theres not enough evidence to reasonably conclude UKI should pay the amount of 
the final outstanding bill (which Mr Cs solicitor said theyd paid) to Mr C directly. UKI 
settled this with the provider and Mr C has accepting my findings. However, to clarify, 
following my provisional decision UKIs claims team checked with the healthcare 
provider who said theyd not received a payment from the solicitor. Ive not seen 
independent evidence to confirm that is correct. But I dont think I can fairly conclude 
that UKI should pay Mr C back directly given that the provider has said the solicitors 
cheque wasnt received. However, I think this situation could have been avoided had 
the bills been settled correctly at the outset as it wouldnt have been necessary for 
the costs to form part of Mr Cs personal injury settlement. 
 
Putting things right
The settlement of the bills came too late to avoid complications in Mr Cs personal injury 
claim which has added further complexity and challenges to the circumstances of this claim. 
And, as Ive outlined above it took around two years from the point of claim for the bills to be 
correctly settled. 
So, as I set out in my provisional decision, Im awarding a total of £850 compensation. That 
is inclusive of the compensation UKI has already offered. It is for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr C by being assured that the bills had been correctly settled, 
when they hadnt been, and for the added difficulties this caused to his personal injury claim.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and I direct UK Insurance Limited to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman