DRN-3808151
The complaint
Miss E complains about TSB Bank plcs security processes. She feels her account was put 
at risk, and says that as a result she had to close it. She thinks TSB should increase the 
compensation theyve paid her in respect of the issues she experienced.  
What happened
Miss E held a current account with TSB. In March 2022, TSB received a call via telephone 
banking, requesting Miss Es telephone number be updated. The request was acted upon, 
and Miss Es phone number was updated. Following this, Miss E contacted TSB to say shed 
not made this request, and was concerned someone had accessed her account. She also 
realised that her online banking access had been revoked. So, she complained, and asked 
TSB to provide her with copies of the calls where the changes were requested.
TSB responded, and said that they received a call in March 2022 requesting the above 
changes, and the caller answered all relevant security questions correctly  so they had no 
reason to doubt the call was genuine. But they said they werent able to provide her with 
copies of the calls, as this would breach data protection, given Miss E had said the calls 
were not made by her. They did accept however, that theyd kept incomplete records 
regarding Miss Es online banking, which meant they were unable to explain why her access 
had been revoked. So, they agreed to pay her £75 compensation to recognise the 
inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Miss E brought her complaint to our service. She said she 
failed to understand how someone could access her account details, with there being no 
fault on TSBs part. And she was worried about what other data breaches had occurred, or 
may occur, moving forward. 
An investigator considered Miss Es complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. In 
summary he said:
-he accepted it must have been distressing, but he was satisfied that the changes 
made to Miss Es account were made following the caller passing the required 
security checks. And he felt TSB took appropriate steps to put account restrictions in 
place when Miss E made it clear it wasnt her that called. 
-He didnt think it was unreasonable for TSB not to release call recordings, given 
Miss E had said it wasnt her on the calls; and, he pointed her towards the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) for any concerns about data breaches  but 
he said that he could see no evidence to suggest a wider breach. 
-He agreed it was unfortunate TSB couldnt provide further information as to why 
Miss Es online banking access had been revoked. But TSB had agreed to reinstate 
this upon her request, and had paid her £75 compensation, which he felt was 
reasonable in the circumstances. So, he didnt recommend TSB do anything further. 
But Miss E remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this case, Ive first considered the main issue, which is that it seems that 
someone other than Miss E had been able to access her records. I can only imagine, and 
appreciate from what Miss Es told us, how distressing this must have been for her  to know 
someone else had accessed her personal account. 
Generally speaking, banks will have security measures in place to help prevent unauthorised 
access. And if security questions are answered incorrectly, then any access to a customers 
account would usually be prevented. In this instance (and its unclear how this happened), 
according to contemporaneous contact notes, TSBs records show that the customer was 
verified at the time of calling, suggesting that they knew Miss Es personal details. So, while 
distressing for Miss E, I cant hold TSB responsible for allowing another party to access her 
records if the security questions were answered correctly, as there would be no reason for 
TSB to think it was anyone other than Miss E calling at the time. 
Also, while distressing, it seems that when Miss E made TSB aware that another party had 
accessed her account, TSB took steps to prevent further access being granted to her 
account immediately. And they did so before Miss E experienced any monetary loss, which 
Im pleased to see. So, I dont think TSB need to do anything further in this regard. 
As well as someone accessing Miss Es account, it seems that Miss Es online banking 
access was also revoked. TSB have been unable to provide any further clarity around why 
this happened, and have admitted that the notes on their system were incomplete, and dont 
provide them with sufficient information to explain why this was. This is unfortunate, and I 
would have expected TSB to hold more detailed records, so that a further explanation could 
be given  particularly as only a couple of months had elapsed since the issue occurred at 
the time of TSB issuing their final response. However, TSB have been open and 
acknowledged their failings in this regard, and have credited one of Miss Es accounts with a 
payment of £75 to compensate her. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Miss E would also like to obtain copies of the calls that were made. I understand 
why she would want these, and also the anxiety she must have around someone accessing 
her details. But equally, businesses are required to comply with data protection laws, and 
Miss E has been clear that it was not her that made the calls. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for TSB not to provide this information in the circumstances.
Also, outside of the complaints raised with this service, I cant see anything to suggest there 
were any further incidents that have compromised Miss Es data. But should she remain 
unhappy with TSB not sending her copies of the above calls, or with TSBs data protection 
policy more widely, then this might be something she could discuss with the ICO who would 
probably be better placed to address such concerns. 
I also understand Miss E has said that switching her account has caused her significant 
inconvenience. But while I fully appreciate why Miss E chose to take this course of action, 
she did have the option to continue banking with TSB. And, given that I dont hold TSB 
responsible for the issues Miss E experienced, I dont feel any further compensation is due 
from TSB as a result of her choosing to switch. I am pleased however, to hear that shes 
experienced no further issues since doing so. I appreciate this was not the answer Miss E was hoping for, and I understand the distress 
this wouldve caused her. But I hope Ive been able to set out clearly why I dont hold TSB 
responsible in the circumstances. So, while I accept Miss Es frustrations with the matter, 
Im not instructing TSB to do anything further in relation to Miss Es complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman