DRN-1866224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the service they received from Union Reiseversicherung AG 
when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were on holiday with their children. One of the children had an accident, was 
taken to hospital by ambulance and diagnosed with a broken arm. Mr and Mrs R were taken 
to a private hospital. They say that URV initially told them theyd authorise private treatment 
and then said they needed to move to a public hospital. 
Mr R says that theres nothing in the policy terms which says that he cant use a private 
hospital and that they were left in a position where they had to wait for treatment in the UK. 
Mr R explained that the public hospital said they couldnt operate for 7 days and that this 
would have left them in a very difficult situation due to the fact that Mrs R has a disability 
because she couldnt have returned to the UK alone with their other child whilst Mr R stayed 
for the surgery to take place with their injured child. Mr R says the delay in treatment has 
caused lasting damage to his sons arm.
In their final response letter URV said that private treatment wasnt covered under the policy 
and Mr R was correctly told to take his son to a public facility when it was medically safe to 
do so. They said that upon receipt of a medical report they would have reviewed the injury 
and arranged support based on the injured childs needs. Mr and Mrs R complained to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that the policy documents say that the policyholders should seek public treatment 
and thats not unusual in the travel insurance industry. He also took into account that there 
were public facilities nearby and, in the circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable for URV to 
ask Mr and Mrs R to move their child. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. He said that if URV had honoured their original agreement to 
cover the cost of private treatment then their child could have had the surgery and had time 
to recover. He reiterated that their circumstances meant that it would have been very difficult 
for one parent to stay abroad and the other return home given the timescales at the public 
hospital. 
Mr R clarified that they transferred to the public hospital and he called URV to explain that 
the operation couldnt take place for 7 or 8 days so they would be returning to the UK. The 
investigator listened to the call recording but it didnt change his thoughts about the outcome 
of this complaint. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review their 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs Rs child was involved in an accident on holiday. I 
understand that he was rushed to hospital in an ambulance. I appreciate that this must have 
been a frightening and worrying experience. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say URV will: 
Pay you up to £5, 000,000 in respect of customary and reasonable fees or charges 
that we have agreed to, including the additional travel and accommodation costs for 
one other person to stay with you, or to travel to you from your home country and to 
accompany you home. 
But it says URV wont do anything if the policyholder doesnt co-operate with them. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint because: 
The policy doesnt specifically say that it doesnt cover private treatment. However, I 
think it is clear that URV wont cover treatment it doesnt agree to. And, it didnt agree 
that Mr and Mrs Rs son could access private treatment in the facility where they 
were. It isnt uncommon for insurers to direct policyholders to access public facilities 
where possible 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Rs child was taken by ambulance to the hospital and 
that surgery was required. But theres no medical evidence available explaining the 
need for urgent treatment or indicating that the surgery had to take place straight 
away. Mr and Mrs R were also within range of a number of public facilities and 
theres no evidence that there was a risk in removing their child to a different local 
hospital. So theres no evidence to suggest that URV unfairly applied their discretion 
by not authorising private treatment in the circumstances of this case 
I understand that Mr and Mrs R didnt want to stay and that their circumstances made 
the prospect of one of them returning home very difficult. But at that point URV had 
no medical reports and so wasnt in a position to give them guidance and direction 
about the options available. So, whilst I understand why they didnt want to wait a 
week for treatment, I also cant fairly say that it was unreasonable for URV to ask 
them to access treatment in a public facility based on what they knew at that time
  
I have a lot of empathy for Mr and Mrs Rs situation and I can completely understand 
the decisions they made, which Im sure were with the best of intentions and with 
their familys best interests at heart. But, they decided to return to the UK, rather than 
get a medical report and receive assistance from URV. In the absence of medical 
evidence indicating that this was an urgent or time sensitive situation, I cant fairly 
say that URV treated them unfairly. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Anna WilshawOmbudsman