DRN-4085215
The complaint
Ms S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ms S paid to join a dating website where she met someone Ill refer to as the scammer. 
They eventually began to communicate via Whatsapp, and discussed their careers, lifestyles 
and interests, such travelling, sport and reading. She thought he seemed wealthy, which 
aligned with the websites claim to attract rich and successful millionaires and he sent 
photographs of himself on extravagant holidays and wearing expensive watches. He 
expressed an interest in getting married and said his culture meant he only dated for marital 
purposes. 
The scammer told Ms S he was a financial advisor and seemed knowledgeable about the 
stock market. She told him she was keen to invest, and he said she should begin investing in 
gold and that hed devise an investment plan for her. He told her she could make 
transactions via cryptocurrency or international transfers and as Ms S had some experience 
with cryptocurrency, she was happy to proceed. 
He sent her a link to a trading platform Ill refer to as J and told her to create a gold 
account, which required her to complete KYC and verification checks by providing her photo 
ID, proof of address, and credit card details. The account was incredibly professional and 
well organised and replicated other genuine trading platforms Ms S had seen.
The scammer told Ms S he had his own broker who was essential for investors to succeed in 
getting returns from the London gold market. He provided a wallet address to transfer her 
existing cryptocurrency to J, and between 24 April 2021 and 30 May 2021, she made nine 
transfers totalling £44,505 from her HSBC account.
On 18 April 2021, Ms S processed two credit card payments of £500 each to the 
cryptocurrency exchange company. The scammer told her there would be a sudden drop, in 
the value of gold on 19 April 2021 so on 20 April 2021, she processed a further four credit 
card payments of £500. Ms S told the scammer she had no more money to invest but he 
said he would place double the amount she would so that if anything went wrong, it would 
happen to them both. Ms S had already exceeded her overdraft and credit card limit, so she 
increased her overdraft limit to £5,000, and took out a loan of £20,000.
While she was waiting for the loan to be processed, Ms S processed a payment of £4,000 
from her HSBC account. HSBC blocked the payment and in the subsequent call, she was 
asked what the payment was for, whether she was making the transaction, and whether she 
was being forced to make the payment. 
Ms S received the loan on 25 April 2021 and made a further payment of £10,000 from her 
HSBC account. HSBC blocked the payment and asked her questions around the purpose of 
the payment. She told it the reason for the payment was private, and it was released with no 
scam education or advice.
Ms S continued to see profits on her trading account and on 28 April 2021, she processed a 
further payment of £2,005 from her HSBC account. On 5 May 2021, she took out a second 
loan and when she received the loan, she processed two payments of £10,000 from her 
HSBC account. On 13 May 2021, she transferred a further £4,000 from her current account, 
which was the remaining balance on her overdraft.  
In June 2021, Ms S was notified that J had frozen her account due to suspicion of money 
laundering and that to reopen the account she would have to pay a risk release fee of 
£172,000. The scammer tried to persuade her to borrow money from friends or to take out a 
further loan, offering to pay 50% of the fees. When Ms S refused to do this, the scammer 
became threatening and threatened to post photographs of her online, at which point she 
realised she was the victim of a scam.
Ms S complained to HSBC with the assistance of a representative. The representative 
argued the two interventions were basic and ineffective as Ms S had been coached to lie. 
They said it failed to question Ms S further when she said the reason for the payment was 
private, despite the fact she was paying a cryptocurrency merchant. And it failed to provide 
any advice or scam education.
HSBC refused to refund any of the money shed lost. It said it was signed up to the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code but as the payments were to an account in 
Ms Ss own name, they werent covered by the code. 
Ms S complained to this service with the assistance of her representative. She said it was 
clear she was at risk of financial harm as the transactions were unusual, and HSBC failed to 
intervene and protect her against the scam. She explained HSBC sounded patronising 
during the phone calls and she was unhappy with the customer service it provided when she 
reported the scam to it.
Her representative said there should have been a greater level of intervention as the 
payments had the hallmarks of an investment scam and multiple known fraud indicators. 
They argued HSBC ought to have asked more questions around the reason for the payment 
as she sounded frustrated, and this should have alerted it that she was possibly being 
coached. 
They said it should have directed Ms S to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, 
asked her whether shed been able to make any withdrawals and warned her it was unusual 
for third parties to be involved in investments, and had it done so she might have discovered 
there were negative reviews online about J.
The representative explained Ms S was in her overdraft throughout the scam and took out 
loans which were quickly paid out, which ought to have raised concerns. Before the scam, 
her daily expenditure was low for example in January and February 2021, the highest 
payments were £825 and £550. And in March 2021, the highest payment was £649.95.
 
They also said HSBC failed to raise a chargeback request in respect of the card payments 
and that it should provide a refund under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
HSBC said the cryptocurrency exchange company offered useful information to consumers 
and warned that transactions cant be reversed. It said warnings were issued in accordance with its understanding that Ms S was paying an account in her own name, and there was no 
suggestion the funds would then be used for a cryptocurrency investment. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the CRM code doesnt 
apply to card payments, international payments or payments to accounts in the name of the 
consumer. She explained the interactions on 24 and 25 April 2021 didnt prevent Ms S from 
going ahead with the transactions and that she would have expected HSBC to have asked 
additional questions about the context and true purpose of the payments. Specifically, it 
should have asked how she was contacted, whether shed parted with personal details to 
open a trading account and whether the investment opportunity was linked to a prominent 
individual or advertised on social media.
But she noted Ms S had been coached on what to say and that when she applied for the 
loan, she didnt provide a detailed reason for the application. Because of this, she thought 
that even if HSBC had provided a scam warning, or asked further questions, Ms S wouldnt 
have disclosed the real reason for the payments, so she didnt think further questioning from 
HSBC would have made a difference.
Finally, she said Ms S had moved the funds out of the account, so there would be nothing to 
recover.
Ms S has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Her representative has 
argued that HSBC ought to have asked open ended questions to get Ms S to explain what 
the payments were for and if shed been contacted by anybody about the transactions. It 
should have also explained the risks involved in lying to the bank. And if it had asked more 
questions and provided a full scam warning, it would have been able to break the spell of the 
scammer and prevented the loss.
They said HSBC ought to have asked Ms S more questions on 5 May 2021 when she told it 
the payment was for private reasons including more questions about the context and true 
purpose of the payment, how shed been contacted, whether shed parted with personal 
details to open a trading account and whether the investment opportunity was linked to a 
prominent individual or advertised on social media. And if it had looked at the account 
holistically, it would have seen shed made over £15,000 of payments to a cryptocurrency 
wallet using money from loans, which is an obvious pattern of fraud. And regardless of her 
responses, it had the account history and an unwillingness to respond with specific answers 
to determine that she had fallen victim to a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms S has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Ms S says shes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC has said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the code doesnt apply to card payments and international payments, or 
payments an account in the customers own name, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Ms Ss payments when 
she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Ms S).
Ms Ss own testimony supports that she used a cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate the 
transfers to J. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been 
able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Ms Ss 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that HSBCs decision 
not to raise a chargeback request against the cryptocurrency exchange company was fair.
Im satisfied Ms S authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Service
s Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt intend 
the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of 
her bank account, Ms S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am satisfied J was operating a scam. 
However, although Ms S didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did authorise the 
disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Ms S when she tried to 
make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Ms S from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments did flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems and there were calls on 23 April 
2021, 24 April 2021, 25 April 2021, 28 April 2021 and 5 May 2021. The first payment of 
£4,000 on 24 April 2021 flagged for checks and Ms S contacted HSBC to tell it she wanted it 
to release the payment. The call handler told her they were asking questions to make sure 
she wasnt being scammed and asked whether shed been forced or threatened to make the 
payment. Ms S said she was paying her own account and that shed opened it herself. She 
said she wasnt forced or threatened or told to lie, and the payment was released. She 
wasnt asked any questions around the purpose of the payment, whether there was a third party involved or the nature of the checks shed completed, and she wasnt given any advice 
about scams.
The next intervention took place on 25 April 2021 when Ms S tried make a payment of 
£10,000. This was a long and difficult call during which Ms S was obviously distressed and 
upset at how she perceived the call handler was speaking to her. The call handler told Ms S 
she wanted to check her money was safe and asked whether anyone had forced her to 
make the payment. Ms S said that she was paying her own account, and no one had forced 
her to do it. The call handler required confirmation that pervious payments had been 
received, but Ms S was only able to confirm receipt of funds from her credit card. The call 
handler also asked questions around how she got the account details and why she wanted 
to transfer the money. Ms S insisted the reason for the payment was personal. She was also 
asked why she got the £25,000 loan, and again she said it was for personal reasons.
The next call took place on 28 April 2021. During this call, Ms S was asked if shed made the 
payment of her own free will. She confirmed the payment was to her own account and that 
no one had advised her to make the payment. She also said no one else had access to the 
account and when asked about the purpose of the payment she said it was for personal 
reasons. The call handler asked if shed read the fraud warning and Ms S said she read it 
every time she made payments. The call handler said she wanted to make sure she wasnt 
the victim of a scam and released the payment.
The final call took place on 5 May 2021. The call handler said she needed to make sure Ms 
S wasnt the victim of a scam and asked her about the purpose of the payment. Ms S said it 
was for private reasons and that she was paying her personal account. The call handler 
checked Ms S had confirmed the details of the beneficiary account and warned her it was 
important that she knew who she was paying, and that fraudsters try to get to know people 
on social media and then ask for money. They pressed her on the reason for the payment 
and she maintained that she didnt have to tell her why she wanted to transfer the money. 
After several attempts, the call handler warned Ms S that HSBC wouldnt be able to recover 
the funds and released the payment.
Ive thought carefully about what took place during the four interventions and Im satisfied 
HSBC intervened when I would expect it to. And I dont think it needed to intervene when 
she made the later payments, which were for increasingly smaller amounts. 
During each call, Ms S was asked why she was making the payments and each time she 
said it was for personal reasons or refused to give any detail. On 25 April 2021, the call 
handler pushed Ms S to tell her the reason for the payment, but she refused to give any 
more information.
Our investigator said HSBC ought to have asked more questions around the context and 
true purpose of the payments and to have given a scam warning. I agree with this because it 
would have been clear that Ms S was paying a cryptocurrency exchange. But, based on the 
answers she gave to the questions she was asked, I dont think Ms S would have 
volunteered any more information, so wouldnt have had enough information to enable it to 
identify that she was being scammed. And I dont think shed have listened to a scam 
warning because she clearly trusted the scammer to the extent that she was unwilling to 
engage at all with HSBC.
 
The representative has said some of the questions were irrelevant and misleading, but 
across the four calls, Ms S maintained her position in the face of repeated attempts to 
encourage her to disclose the reason for the transfers, so HSBC didnt have the information 
it needed to properly tailor the advice and warnings. Overall, while I think HSBC could reasonably have done more during the calls, I dont think 
this represented a missed opportunity to have prevented Ms Ss loss.
Recovery
Im satisfied there was no reasonable prospect of a successful recover because Ms S 
transferred the funds out of the beneficiary account. 
Customer service
I understand Ms S felt patronised during one of the calls, but Im satisfied the service she 
received was reasonable throughout.
Im sorry to hear Ms S has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think HSBC is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman