DRN-1445569
 
The complaint
 Mr L says Stagemount Limited (trading as Quidmarket) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened 
Quidmarket gave Mr L three loans between September and December 2018. They were all 
due to be paid back by way of six monthly instalments. 
All the loans were repaid early.
Heres a table showing the loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 21/09/2018 11/10/2018 6 £400.00 £133.32
2 25/10/2018 07/12/2018 6 £500.00 £166.65
3 28/12/2018 24/01/2019 6 £1,000.00 £329.89
 
Mr L complained that Quidmarket didnt do sufficient checks. He said more thorough checks 
wouldve shown that he had many other payday and short term loans as well as being up to 
his limit on two credit cards and overdrawn on two bank accounts. 
When Quidmarket looked at Mr Ls complaint, it said that it had carried out full affordability 
checks on all the loans and it didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He thought that Quidmarket shouldnt have 
provided any of the loans to Mr L and he gave detailed instructions about the way he felt 
Quidmarket should settle the complaint.  
Quidmarket disagreed with our adjudicators view. So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Quidmarket has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr L. It asked him for 
details of his income and normal expenditure, and carried out checks on his credit file. It also 
told us Quidmarket adjusted the figures to reflect information it obtained when it carried out 
credit checks which indicated that Mr L had underestimated his spending on other credit. 
The repayment amount for loan 1 mightve looked affordable on the figures Mr L gave 
Quidmarket, even after Quidmarket allowed for his significantly higher spending on other 
monthly credit commitments. But what Mr L had told Quidmarket about his financial 
circumstances was clearly at odds with the the information Quidmarket obtained about Mr Ls credit history which showed that hed opened and closed a large number of accounts 
in the previous six months prior to approaching Quidmarket. 
I've taken into account what Quidmarket says about this credit information  it mentions that 
of the loans Mr L settled within the previous 6 months, 23 were repaid within one week. A 
further 10 were repaid within two weeks. Only two loans extended beyond a month. And only 
13 of these loans were payday loans, requiring repayment within a month of the loan. 
But I think its fair to say that Quidmarket could see that Mr L had been relying significantly 
on short term loans, including payday loans, for some time. 
This type of borrowing is intended to provide a short term fix in the event of temporary or 
unexpected money problems. So I think the information Quidmarket had gathered about 
Mr Ls credit history shouldve made Quidmarket realise that it looked like Mr L was having 
problems managing his money. 
Quidmarket says that it doesnt agree that the number of credit searches revealed on the 
credit report it obtained for Mr L shows an inability to manage his finances  only the number 
of credit searches made for him. But I think Quidmarket shouldve realised that this number 
of searches was a sign that Mr L was very active in the credit market. And coupled with the 
other information Quidmarket could see, including the fact that Mr L was practically at the 
limit of his borrowing on two credit cards (both with substantial balances) I think it shouldve 
realised when he asked for loan 1 that this loan, and any further lending, was most likely 
unsustainable. 
So it shouldnt have provided loan 1 to Mr L  or any of the loans that followed.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything Quidmarket has said, 
including its response to our adjudicators view. 
Even if Quidmarket didn't feel the credit information it had was enough to show that it 
shouldve declined to lend to Mr L, at the very least the credit information it could see 
shouldve prompted a responsible lender to do further checks before lending. Had 
Quidmarket done proportionate checks before agreeing to lend, it would've likely become 
aware that Mr L had at least three other outstanding short term high cost loans when it gave 
him loan 1  a clear sign that he was having problems managing his money. 
I appreciate that Mr L repaid his loans earlier than the agreed term. But successfully 
repaying his loans doesnt mean he managed to do so in a sustainable way. And borrowing 
and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that his finances were not in a stable 
position. 
And Ive also taken into account what Quidmarket said about the way other complaints have 
been dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  
Putting things right  what Quidmarket needs to do 
 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 1 - 3, not including anything it has already refunded.
 B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr L which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr L the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove any adverse information Quidmarket has recorded on Mr Ls credit file for 
loans 1 - 3.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to take off tax from this interest. Quidmarket 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint and Stagemount Limited 
(trading as Quidmarket) should take the steps to put things right set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman