DRN-3568897
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly turned down their claim 
for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs Ms roofer knocked on their door to tell them some end caps on their roof 
were loose. Worried that their neighbours could get hurt if the caps fell off, Mr M and Mrs M 
got their roofer to carry out the necessary repairs immediately.
Mr M and Mrs M then made a claim on their home insurance policy for storm damage. They 
wanted Ageas to reimburse them £1,000 for the repair costs. 
Ageas turned down Mr M and Mrs Ms claim. It said the damage to Mr M and Mrs Ms roof 
was not storm damage but was due to wear and tear, which their home insurance policy 
didnt cover. 
Mr M and Mrs M disagreed and so brought their complaint to us. The investigator who 
looked at it didnt uphold it. She didnt think Mr M and Mrs M had shown the damage to their 
roof was caused by a storm. And she also didnt think Mr M and Mrs M could claim for 
accidental damage instead.
Mr M and Mrs M disagree. Among other things, they say theyve made it clear storm damage 
is what caused the caps to come loose. So Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
For storm claim complaints, we look at three main issues:
1.    Was there a storm?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with the damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no, were likely to say a claim for storm damage 
wont succeed.
In Mr M and Mrs Ms case, Ageas hasnt disputed there was a storm. So the answer to the 
first question is yes. And the damage for which Mr M and Mrs M are claiming  the loose 
roof caps  is, I think consistent with the damage a storm typically causes. So the answer to 
the second question is yes.
But, based on the evidence I have (which is quite limited), I think the answer to the third 
question  was the storm the main cause of the damage?  is no, as Ill come on to 
explain. 
In considering this question, my starting point is that, in making their claim, it is for              
Mr M and Mrs M  not Ageas  to show the damage was caused mainly by a storm. 
Ordinarily, when looking at a claim for storm damage, an insurer will instruct its surveyor 
either to assess the damage by making a physical site visit or to carry out a desk-top 
assessment based on any photographic evidence it has of the damage. But Mr M and Mrs M 
had had their roof repaired on the same day their roofer told them about the loose caps. I 
understand why Mr M and Mrs M did this  they were worried that, if the loose caps fell, they 
could hurt their neighbours small children. But what that means is that the roof was repaired 
before Ageas had an opportunity to send a surveyor to make a physical assessment of the 
damage. And no photos were taken of the roof before it was repaired, so there was no 
photographic evidence for Ageas to use to assess Mr M and Mrs Ms claim  or for              
Mr M and Mrs M to use to support it. 
The only evidence Ageas has about the damage to the roof is from a phone call it made to 
Mr M and Mrs Ms roofer. When asked by Ageas what caused the damage, the roofer says 
his opinion is that it could be storm damage because of recent high winds. But the roofer 
also says the end batons on the roof were rotten and needed to be replaced. When asked 
what might cause this, the roofer says it would be down to wear and tear given the age of  
Mr M and Mrs Ms home. 
I know Mr M and Mrs M say the damage to their roof was caused by a storm. But they arent 
experts and they only became aware of the damage when their roofer knocked on their door. 
And only their roofer had a close-up view of the damage. Mr M and Mrs M say there was no 
rotten wood in the debris on their drive following the repairs. And they say the same roofer 
installed new dry verges in 2019, at a time when there were no verge tiles at the gable end. 
So they say their roofer shouldve seen any rotten wood then but there was no mention of it.
While I understand the points they make, Mr M and Mrs Ms comments arent enough to 
persuade me theyve shown  as they need to for their storm damage claim to succeed  
that a storm was the main cause of the damage to their roof. Mr M and Mrs Ms policy 
contains a general exclusion for loss or damage arising from wear and tear. Based largely 
on Mr M and Mrs Ms roofers comments, Ageas has relied on this exclusion to turn down  
Mr M and Mrs Ms storm damage claim. I dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
doing so.
As well as giving cover for storm damage, Mr M and Mrs Ms policy also gave them separate 
cover for accidental damage. So Ive gone on to look at whether  having turned down their 
claim for storm damage  Ageas ought to have accepted Mr M and Mrs Ms claim as 
accidental damage.
Mr M and Mrs Ms policy says accidental damage is unexpected and unintended damage 
caused by sudden means. However, the same general exclusion for damage arising from 
wear and tear that Ageas applied to Mr M and Mrs Ms storm damage claim also applies to 
accidental damage. I think this means, based on the available evidence, Mr M and Mrs Ms 
claim wont succeed under the accidental damage section of their policy either.
Ive looked at all the other comments Mr M and Mrs M have made about their claim but they 
dont change my conclusions on their complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman