DRN-2754208
The complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited rejected his motor insurance claim for damage 
to his car.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr B purchased a car and obtained a classic car insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy had an agreed value of £8,000 for the car and the insurer was Ageas. In 
August the same year, Mr B made a claim on the policy as he says his car was damaged 
when parked on the road.
Mr B reported the incident to the police and Ageas. Ive seen the police wrote to Mr B shortly 
after the incident to tell him it was unlikely they would be able to identify any third-party 
responsible for the damage to his car. Ageas initially dealt with Mr Bs claim and asked him 
for an estimate of the damage, as well a copy of the vehicle log book (V5) and his 
identification documents. When the estimate for the repairs was received from Mr Bs 
garage, Ageas initially told Mr B they would pay the agreed value of the car and asked for 
his bank details. Mr B confirmed he wanted the salvaged car returned to him.
At this point Ageas noted similarities between Mr Bs claim and other claims involving them 
and the broker. Ageas then requested further information from Mr B. They asked him how 
much he paid for the car, how the funds were paid and who he purchased the car from. And, 
after reviewing the information Mr B provided, Ageas instructed a third-party investigator to 
interview Mr B and provide a report on the incident.
After reviewing the report from the third-party investigator, and the evidence and information 
provided by Mr B, Ageas told Mr B that they had declined his claim. They said his claim 
followed a similar pattern to other claims submitted against Ageas and the broker. They said 
they considered the circumstances went well beyond coincidence and thought it was an 
organised attempt to commit fraud against them. Ageas declined the claim and referred Mr B 
to the policy conditions that said, If you or anyone acting for you; make a claim which you or 
they know is false, fraudulent or exaggerated; or provide false or stolen documents to 
support a claim; we will not pay the claim and this insurance will end.
Mr B wasnt happy with the decision of Ageas and complained to them. Ageas provided a 
final response to Mr B and told him they upheld their decision to decline the claim. Mr B then 
brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things for him and 
thought that Ageas hadnt treated Mr B unfairly when they declined his claim.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator and has asked that an ombudsman decides his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide whether Mr Bs claim is valid. Instead, I will consider whether 
Ageas acted reasonably in assessing the validity of Mr Bs claim before deciding to reject it. I 
understand Mr B will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons given by our 
investigator, I have decided not to uphold his complaint. I will now explain why.
Ive seen the claim made by Mr B had similarities to other claims issued against Ageas and 
the broker. The other claims were on vehicles from specific manufacturers that matched Mr 
Bs vehicle, had an agreed value for the vehicle, had no traceable third-party, took place in a 
similar geographic location and the damage was similar. So, when Ageas considered Mr Bs 
claim circumstances, I believe it wasnt unreasonable for them to seek further explanations 
and evidence from him before deciding whether to pay the claim. In this case Ageas asked 
for a third-party investigator to interview Mr B and report back to them. Ageas also asked for 
further evidence about who Mr B brought the car from, how much he paid for it and how he 
paid for it.
The report from the third-party investigator highlighted some inconsistencies in Mr Bs 
recollections about the amount of damage to his car. I consider it was reasonable for Ageas 
to take this into account when assessing the validity of the claim. Ageas also had concerns 
about the amount Mr B paid for the car and who he paid the money to. Whilst Mr B said he 
paid about £8,000 for the car, he also said that about half this amount had been paid in cash 
and the other half by bank transfer. Ageas did establish a payment of £3,800 had left Mr Bs 
bank account about the time of the purchase, and Mr B was given the opportunity to provide 
evidence of a cash payment to the seller, or to provide a receipt for purchase. He was 
unable to provide either. Mr B was also unable to provide details of who he purchased the 
car from, or a copy of the V5 receipt when ownership changed.
I cant say there was any one thing that caused Ageas to decline Mr Bs claim, but Ive seen 
they considered all the evidence they had gathered before they did so. Ageas believe this 
claim is fraudulent due to the number of inconsistencies and the similarities with other 
claims. Having considered everything, Im persuaded thats fair and reasonable in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman