DRN-4262644
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
They say that Barclays didnt do enough to protect them from becoming the victims of a 
scam and would like Barclays to refund them the money they have lost as a result.
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs R were called by a broker offering an investment in a property bond. 
They were persuaded to part with £10,000 into the investment.
Mr and Mrs R say that they became aware that they had been scammed when they were 
contacted by the police some time later.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Barclays, saying that it didnt provide them with any warnings at 
the time they made the payment which would have prevented them from losing their money.
Barclays hasnt upheld their complaint. Unhappy, they brough their complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt think that their complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs R, so Ill 
explain why.
Were Mr and Mrs R the victims of a scam?
It isnt immediately apparent here if Mr and Mrs R were the victims of a scam  Barclays say 
that Mr and Mrs R paid a legitimate business which has now gone into liquidation. However, 
Mr and Mrs R and their representatives have provided information which suggests that they 
were the victim of a sophisticated scam. 
Barclays has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or to provide
investment advice  so if Mr and Mrs R paid money to a legitimate company, it would be 
under no obligation to have prevented the payment from being made. 
That said, as it is unclear if Mr and Mrs R were scammed, I will explain why I am still not 
upholding their complaint, even if this was the case.
Did Mr and Mrs R authorise the payment?
I dont think it is in dispute here that Mr and Mrs R authorised the payment in question  they 
made the payment through their online banking services. This means that they gave 
Barclays the instruction to make the payment from their account. While I understand that Mr 
and Mrs R did not think at the time that they would go on to lose their money, this doesnt 
change the fact that they authorised the payment in the first instance, and businesses are 
generally expected to act on their customers instruction.
Recovery of the payment
Mr and Mrs R feel that they are entitled to a refund under the Contingent Reimbursement 
model (CRM) code. However, this was not in place at the time. And by the time Mr and 
Mrs R made Barclays aware of the loss they had suffered, the business they paid had 
already gone into liquidation  they also did not report the payment to Barclays until 2022  
six years after it had been made. So, I dont think it likely the funds were recoverable by this 
time.
Should Barclays have prevented the payment? 
As Ive explained above, it isnt completely clear if Mr and Mrs R were the victims of a scam 
here  however, as they have provided some information which suggests that this may be 
the case, I have also considered if Barclays should have intervened.
I can only uphold this complaint if I think Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented the 
payment in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before it happened.
Mr and Mrs R authorised the payment in question here  so as Ive explained above, they 
are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks 
are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr and Mrs R and the payment they made.Having looked at Mr and Mrs Rs account history in the months leading up to the payment, 
Im not persuaded that Barclays should have contacted Mr and Mrs R before processing 
their payment request. I say this because I dont think that it was sufficiently unusual, 
uncharacteristic, or suspicious to have triggered Barclays into taking extra steps.
Mr and Mrs R had made several high value payments of a similar amount in the lead up to 
the payment in question here  so I dont think that it was out of character considering the 
way they used their account. 
This means that as Barclays didnt interact with Mr and Mrs R at the time of the payment  
and I cant reasonably say Barclays ought to have been obliged to have gotten in touch with 
them about it either. So, Im satisfied Barclays didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to
prevent the payment before it was sent.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman