DRN-3892966
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains about how American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) handled its chargeback claim.
Mr B, a director of O, brings the complaint on O's behalf.
What happened
O is a travel agency. In March 2020, a client had to cancel a planned trip due to the travel 
restrictions arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. O sought a refund from the local travel 
provider with whom it had engaged to provide services but, as it was unable to agree a 
solution, it then raised a chargeback request with AESEL, through which it had made the 
relevant payments. Subsequently, the client accepted a rescheduling of their plans to April 
2021, so the chargeback request was cancelled. 
In December 2020, the same client requested to cancel their April 2021 trip due to the 
ongoing restrictions. O engaged again with its local travel provider seeking a refund or a 
credit voucher, as the client was this time unwilling to accept a rescheduling. But the local 
provider did not agree. Therefore, in April 2021, O raised a new chargeback request with 
AESEL. 
The local travel provider had withheld a few refunds to O, all of which O sought to recover 
through chargebacks, mostly with AESEL. Only one chargeback was unsuccessful, which is 
the subject of this dispute, worth $7,304.
O said that it had raised the chargeback within the period allowed and provided the 
documentation required to support it. O also highlighted that, at the same time as raising the 
chargeback in dispute, it had raised another chargeback against the same local travel 
provider relating to the same trip for the same customer, which AESEL had accepted. O said 
it therefore made no sense for AESEL to reject this chargeback request. 
O complained to AESEL. However, AESEL said that it had not received sufficient or correct 
documentation from O to support the chargeback. It said that it had no legal position by 
which to intervene in this dispute between O and Os local travel provider. 
Not content with this response, O brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened but said that AESEL had acted reasonably in how it had 
dealt with Os chargeback request. He said that AESEL had assessed the information 
provided by O but, because the chargeback was referred outside of the time limits, there 
was no obligation that the merchant reply to its enquiries, and no basis for O being entitled to 
a refund.
O re-iterated that AESELs actions were inconsistent and incomprehensible, having refunded 
other chargeback requests, including against the same merchant. 
Because O did not agree, the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 and invited further responses from both O 
and AESEL. 
AESEL said that it had no further comments.
O said that, while AESEL had focussed on the clause in the terms and conditions of its local 
travel provider about cancellation for unforeseen circumstances and illness, its claim was 
made with reference to the prior clause, which said:
In most cases cancellations with less than 24 hours notice are not refundable. 
Cancellations of single bookings with less than 7 days notice are subject to provider 
fees (plus any bank or vendor charges).
O said that, as no fees had been incurred by its local travel provider (eg on hotels, trips etc), 
its provider was obliged under this term to provide a refund. 
O also pointed to a clause in the terms and conditions which said:
In order to avoid the fees we are always happy to apply the credit towards another 
service we may offer.
O said that its local travel provider had refused to refund the amount paid and had ceased 
engagement with O entirely. O said that, as its merchant had not delivered the services paid 
for based on their terms and conditions, it had actioned the chargeback to recover these 
funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between O and AESEL and considered 
all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider 
central to this complaint.
It appears to me that AESEL has provided, at different times, three different reasons for 
dismissing the chargeback request. I set these out in turn, though I do not form an opinion 
on the first two as my view on the third reason is determinative.
The chargeback request was out of time
AESEL treated Os second chargeback request in April 2021 as a re-opening of the first 
chargeback in March 2020 as it related to the same underlying transaction. Therefore, it 
found that O was out of time to bring the second request. 
In Os view, the chargeback request in April 2021 was separate to the initial cancelled 
request and arose from the merchant being unresponsive to its new request to cancel the 
booking, which was only made in January 2021. O said that it was therefore in time to raise 
the chargeback. 
Given my finding on Os entitlement to a refund, I have not needed to form a view on 
whether, in the circumstances of this cancellation, O was out of time in bringing its 
chargeback request.
The merchant had offered O a voucherAESEL has said that a chargeback cannot succeed where a merchant offers an alternative 
remedy, in this case a voucher, as a resolution.
O has said that it was never offered a voucher. In December 2020, O informed the merchant 
that its client was unable to travel and there then followed a protracted exchange in which O 
first asked about the possibility of a refund, then requested a refund, then compromised on a 
50% refund/voucher, and then said it would be willing to accept a 100% voucher. All of these 
requests were rejected by the merchant. The merchant did offer to reschedule the trip on 
exactly the same itinerary, but O said it was unwilling to accept this offer as it was 
unreasonably restrictive. 
Given my finding on the entitlement to a refund, I have not needed to form a view on 
whether, in the circumstances of this cancellation, O was entitled only to a rescheduling of 
the booking.
Insufficient documentation to support Os entitlement to a refund
AESEL has said that, under its scheme, a chargeback cannot supersede a merchants terms 
and conditions. So, in the context of Os chargeback request, it would only uphold the claim 
if, in the circumstances, O was entitled to a refund from the merchant under the merchants 
terms and conditions. 
It appears that AESEL sought to access the terms and conditions of Os agreement with the 
merchant, but the email scan provided by the merchant was unreliable. However, in support 
of its claim in April 2021, O was able to provide a link to the merchants website setting out 
the merchants general commitments, which was consistent with the scan of the agreement 
O supplied to AESEL in support of its March 2020 chargeback. This document says:
[The merchant] is not responsible for any unforeseen event that may cause you to 
cancel your tour/package. This includes viruses, disease, sickness, pregnancy, 
weather, the act of nature, or any other event non-related to [the merchant]. In order 
to cover refunds for these cases, we recommend that you purchase a third party 
travel insurance in advance of your travel
AESEL said that this alone is sufficient to frustrate the chargeback as it indicates that, in the 
circumstances of Os cancellation in April 2021, it was not entitled to a refund from the 
merchant.
O pointed out that the paragraph prior to this one in the merchants terms and conditions 
states:
In most cases cancellations with less than 24 hours notice are not refundable. 
Cancellations of single bookings with less than 7 days notice are subject to provider 
fees (plus any bank or vendor charges).
O relied on this clause in seeking a refund from the merchant, and in making its chargeback 
claim to AESEL.
It is apparent that there is a tension between these two clauses. If the paragraph quoted by 
O were to be the only statement made by the merchant in its terms and conditions about 
refunds, I can understand why O might interpret it as it has. However, this paragraph only 
covers two circumstances: (i) cancellations with less than 24 hours notice; and (ii) 
cancellations with less than 7 days notice. It does not cover cancellations where more than 
7 days notice is provided.O has therefore interpreted this paragraph to suggest that all other cancellations, with more 
than 7 days notice, should receive a refund. However, the following paragraph clearly states 
that [the merchant] is not responsible for any unforeseen event that may cause you to cancel 
your tour/package  and goes on to list examples of such unforeseen events.
Taking these two paragraphs together, I think it is reasonable for AESEL to reach the view 
that O was not entitled under its merchants terms to a refund in the circumstances of this 
cancellation.
O has also referred to a later clause in its merchants terms and conditions which states:
In order to avoid the fees we are always happy to apply the credit towards another 
service we may offer.
However, this is the second sentence of a clause, in which the first sentence states:
Cancellations are subject to bank fees which are generally 3% to 5% of the amount.
Given this clause is about the charging of bank fees in the context of a cancellation, I do not 
believe it informs whether O is entitled to a refund or a voucher in the circumstances of its 
cancellation.
For these reasons, I am persuaded that AESEL fairly considered Os chargeback request 
and reached a reasonable determination that, in the circumstances of this cancellation, it is 
not clear that O was entitled to a refund under its merchants terms and conditions.
Other points
O has highlighted that AESELs actions in rejecting this chargeback request are inconsistent 
with its parallel acceptance of other chargeback requests, including against the same 
merchant in the same, or very similar, circumstances. However, I have to consider the 
chargeback request subject to this dispute. 
O has also evidenced that the funds which it had supplied to the merchant to pay for the 
deposits at the hotels had been returned in full by the hotels to the merchant and, therefore, 
it was unfair for the merchant to retain these funds. However, the question I have to consider 
is whether AESEL acted fairly and reasonably in how it handled Os chargeback request. As 
set out above, I believe AESEL fairly considered Os request and, as it is not clear that O 
was entitled to a refund from the merchant, it acted reasonably in rejecting the request. O 
may continue to dispute with its merchant the fairness of the merchant being enriched 
through retaining Os deposit when it had recovered these funds from the hotels, but that is 
not a matter for me to decide.
I know this decision will be deeply disappointing to Mr B. However, for the reasons set out 
above, I believe AESEL fairly considered Os chargeback request and reached a reasonable 
determination on it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman