DRN-4417964
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
At the end of March 2023, Mrs M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF. The agreement was for £5,000 over 60 months; with 59 monthly 
payments of £132.29 and a final payment of £142.29. At the time of supply, the car was 
around nine and a half years old and had done 85,711 miles (according to the MOT record 
for 31 March 2023).
Mrs M started to have problems with the car in early May 2023  there was a loud noise from 
the engine, and smoke coming from the exhaust. She took it to a local garage, who told her 
the engine needed stripping so the fault could be identified. And they advised her not to drive 
the car.
Mrs M had the car recovered to the supplying dealership, but they said they were unable to 
find any faults with the car. And they told her she was liable for the recovery costs of £480. 
When the car was returned to Mrs M the engine noise and smoking exhaust had stopped, so 
she thought the car had been repaired. However, the dealership confirmed they hadnt done 
any repairs, which was why she was liable for the recovery costs. Mrs M paid the recovery 
costs on 30 May 2023.
The car was inspected by an independent engineer on 3 June 2023. The engineer confirmed 
that the car had a slight misfire, and the timing belt had been recently replaced. Mrs M 
complained to SMF, but they didnt respond to her complaint. So, she brought her complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
SMF didnt engage with our investigation, so our investigator formed her view based on the 
information thatd been provided by Mrs M. The investigator was satisfied there was a fault 
with the car when it was supplied to Mrs M, and this made the car of an unsatisfactory 
quality. The report from the independent engineer suggested this had been repaired, and the 
investigator thought this had most likely happened when the fault was being investigated by 
the supplying dealership.
While the car was with the supplying dealership for investigation/repair, Mrs M wasnt 
provided with a courtesy car and wasnt kept mobile. So, the investigator said that SMF 
should refund Mrs M the equivalent of two-weeks payments to reflect this. The investigator 
also said that Mrs M shouldnt be responsible for the recovery costs of the car, and these 
should be refunded to her, along with £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shed been caused.
Mrs M agreed with the investigator, but SMF didnt respond. Because of SMFs continued 
non-responsiveness, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, SMF 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless SMF can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mrs M to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs M took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask SMF to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 3 June 2023. At the time of this 
report the car had done 87,047 miles  1,336 miles since it was supplied to Mrs M.
The engineer said there is evidence of disturbance around the [timing] belt/chain area. 
Securing bolts have been removed and refitted, along with some engine parts, hoses, and 
induction pipes. The identified work is consistent with component replacement, potentially 
chain/belt. It was not possible to examine this further, without dismantling.
The engineer also said the engine had a light tick, which was consistent with the cars age 
and mileage, and there was a slight misfire present due to a faulty coil pack. Due to the 
mileage the car had covered since supply the engineer said that, even though coil packs can 
fail without warning, this was the responsibility of the dealership to repair.
Finally, the engineer confirmed their duty is to the courts, not to the person who instructed or 
paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied this report is reasonable to rely upon.
Ive considered the engineers comments, as well as the age and mileage of the car. While a 
coil pack wouldnt be expected to fail after 1,336 miles, this would only be the case if the car 
was supplied with brand new coil packs. I havent seen anything to suggest this was the 
case, and it isnt something Id expect in a car that was approaching ten years old and had 
done more than 85,000 miles. Coil packs are a wear and tear item and, as such, I wont be 
asking SMF to replace these.When a timing belt needs replacement, the external indicators of this are excessive engine 
noise accompanied by smoke. Mrs M had said this is what happened to the car, and I dont 
doubt this was the case. I say this because she arranged for the car to be recovered to the 
dealership, and I dont believe she wouldve done this had she not been told to stop driving 
the car. So, Im satisfied there was a fault with the car that manifested itself around a month 
after supply.
While the supplying dealership have said they found no fault with the car, and they didnt 
repair anything, this is not supported by the evidence. When the car was returned to Mrs M, 
the symptoms of a failed timing belt were no longer present, and there is evidence that this 
had been replaced. So, Im satisfied its more likely than not that the supplying dealership 
replaced the timing belt. And I suspect they denied doing any work on the car so they 
werent held liable for the recovery costs.
Im also satisfied that the failure of the timing chain made the car of an unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied  even allowing for the age and mileage, its reasonable for Mrs M to 
expect the cars major components to last little more than a month before failing. As such, 
Im also satisfied that SMF need to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
In situations such as this, the CRA allows for a single chance at repair. For the reasons 
given, Im satisfied this repair took place. And all the evidence suggests this repair has been 
successful, with no reoccurrence of the engine noise or smoking exhaust. Mrs M wasnt 
charged for this repair by the supplying dealership, so there are no repair costs to reimburse.
However, the car was off the road and undrivable for two weeks while it was with the 
dealership being repaired. During this period, Mrs M wasnt supplied with a courtesy car. As 
such, she was paying for goods she was unable to use. As, for the reasons already stated, 
Im satisfied the car was off the road due to it being of an unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, and as SMF failed to keep Mrs M mobile; Im satisfied they should refund half 
(£66.15) of the payment Mrs M made in May 2023.
Mrs M has provided evidence of the costs shes incurred in having the car recovered to the 
supplying dealership. Given the distance between the dealership and where Mrs M lives, I 
dont consider these costs to be unreasonable or excessive. As the recovery costs were only 
incurred because the car supplied was of an unsatisfactory quality, Im satisfied that these 
should also be refunded to Mrs M.
Finally, its clear that Mrs M has been inconvenienced by having to arrange for the car to be 
recovered to the dealership, and by being without access to a car while it was being repaired 
 Mrs M has explained that she works in a location with limited public transport, so needed 
to take a train and two busses to get to work while she was without the car. Mrs M also 
needed to travel to the dealership to collect the car once the repair had been completed.
So, I think SMF should compensate her for this. The investigator had recommended SMF 
pay her £150, which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been 
made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, SMF should:
refund £66.15 of the payment Mrs M made for May 2023;
reimburse Mrs M for the £480 recovery costs she paid on 30 May 2023;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund/reimbursement, calculated from the 
date Mrs M made the payments to the date of the refund; andpay Mrs M an additional £150 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires SMF to take off tax from this interest. SMF must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman