DRN-2835525
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund payments he didnt 
make from his account.
What happened
Mr P said that he didnt make a number of faster payments from his account in the last week 
of December 2020. He said that his details must have been taken and used by someone 
else.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding the money. All the payments were made using Mr Ps 
device and there was a match of the IP address involved to that used for previous genuine 
payments. Mr P had given different explanations about what had happened, first saying that 
his details must have been hacked, then that someone he had sent a payment to must have 
had access to his account and finally that a person he had met though a website had 
drugged him. That latter explanation was the same as one hed already used in October 
2020 when he disputed a previous payment and it had been accepted the first time. It further 
noted that these payments didnt just take place on one day. It said Mr P had contacted it on 
27 December 2020 during the time these payments were being made. But that wasnt to 
report this fraud and instead to report his card as stolen. He hadnt mentioned other 
payments from his account. Mr P had told it he had contacted police and Halifax said it 
would co-operate with any inquiries.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There was no evidence    
Mr P had reported what had been happening with these payments before a call on 1 January 
2021. And when he did report this hed claimed he hadnt been able to get through when 
hed called. That was inconsistent with the records Halifax had of speaking to him earlier 
about his card. Our investigator thought Mr P was disputing 30 faster payments in this 
period. And all were made using his own device and involved a log in with his biometric 
details. He couldnt see how Mr P wouldnt be aware of what was happening especially as 
he had been logging on every day and ought to have noticed the amount taken. And a 
fraudster would have most likely taken as much money as quickly as possible and this didnt 
happen here. As Halifax had said Mr P hadnt given a consistent account of what had 
happened. And hed seemed to change this during the call recordings hed listened to as 
Halifax had pressed him on how what hed said could have been plausible 
Mr P didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He clarified that not all the faster 
payments on his account were fraudulent and he provided an annotated copy of his bank 
statement showing the ones that were. He still thought someone else took this money and 
he didnt think that Halifax had looked into things properly, dismissing his claim in a minute. 
He only noticed these payments after they had been processed and not while they were 
pending. His medical condition and mental health issues havent been taken into account 
and his medication affects his memory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, with the security information on the account. And if 
they werent authorised Mr P wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened with these payments?
- Did Mr P either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Halifax says?
- Did Halifax act reasonably?
Ive seen the audit logs from Halifax showing that the faster payments from Mr Ps account 
at this time were made using the mobile app which had been accessed with his security 
information. The device was the one he generally used to access his account. Im satisfied 
the payments were authenticated.
I need to think about whether Mr P consented to the payments. Until now Halifax was under 
the impression that all the faster payments were in dispute. But Mr P has as I mentioned 
above now itemised what I count as 16 of them totalling it seems £2,150. That means that 
he made the other faster payments himself and thats relevant as they came between 
disputed ones. 
Having listened to the recordings of calls he had with Halifax and considered what hes said 
to this service I agree he has been inconsistent in what hes said about what happened. And 
frankly I dont think hes been fully open about the situation he was in and how these 
payments came about. I say this because he initially said his account had been hacked and 
he made one payment that he thought had allowed access to his account. When he was told 
that wasnt possible he then said he met a female online and when in his hotel room she 
must have taken his details. He said he had written them down in his wallet. When 
challenged by Halifax about how payments happened over a number of days he says he 
saw her several times. When asked about how he wouldnt have known what was happening 
he said he had been drugged and he also referred to being addicted to medication. He also 
then said he had been at a party for three to four days during this period when he was 
drinking alcohol and others were taking drugs. He said when he first reported this that he 
couldnt call Halifax before then because he couldnt get through and thought the office was 
closed and had to get back to work. He now seems to say he wasnt at work and it seems 
that instead while at this party phoned Halifax to report his card stolen. He has also said he 
did notice the fraudulent payments when he called on 27 December 2020 and Halifax made 
a mistake in not blocking his account. But he also has said that he didnt notice the 
payments as they were pending. I also take into account that Mr P is broadly saying he got 
himself into a situation he was in before in October 2020 and was drugged and his money 
taken. 
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what it most likely. And I 
dont find it most likely that these payments were made without Mr Ps consent and so 
werent authorised. I say that because:
- As set out above he has been very inconsistent about what has happened.
- He was clearly able to make genuine payments during this period.- He has used this explanation for fraud before, seemed to not have learnt from a past 
experience and has allowed this to go on for a number of days.
- There is no evidence to support what he says happened and no information provided 
from any police investigation into what he reported as a criminal matter.
- Mr P accepts that his memory of what happened may not be good and that alcohol and 
drugs may be involved.
- The pattern of payments isnt consistent with fraud as someone with access to his 
account would likely have taken as much money as quickly as possible. Instead there 
are multiple disputed payments over several days  some as low as for £10 and as I say 
genuine payments made in between these.
- During his regular genuine access to his account during this period Id have thought it 
reasonable he noticed what was happening.
I dont think there was a basis for Halifax to identify any issues with this pattern of payments. 
And as I say it was only told about his card being stolen during this time  not concerns 
about faster payments. It did review what he said in phone calls and told him he should 
contact police as he did. I know Mr P will be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking 
Halifax to refund this money and that I dont think it has acted unreasonably.. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman