DRN-4285070
Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited hasnt refunded the money he lost to a scam.
Background
Mr K was looking for work. He made contact with what appeared to be a recruitment agency 
online. Unfortunately, that contact turned out to be a fraudster rather than a legitimate 
employment agency.
He was offered a job as an affiliate marketer. He was told that he would need to buy 
packages through the employers online platform and write reviews of products at various 
online platforms. He would be paid based on the number reviews that hed written  but he 
couldnt earn anything unless he purchased sufficient packages. Essentially, the 
arrangement meant that he would lose money upfront but with the promise of generous 
reimbursement further down the line.
He made his first payment on 2 March 2022 for £5,000. He made another payment the 
following day for £3,850. When he didnt receive any pay from the employer, he realised he 
must have fallen victim to a scam.
He contacted Wise but it said it wouldnt reimburse him. In its response to his complaint, it 
wrote:
 the obligation of ensuring the legitimacy of the recipient on any given transaction 
lies with the sender of the payment. As Wise is a Money Remittance service, we do 
not have the ability to be involved in disputes between senders and recipients. 
Consequently, we always recommend all our customers to perform their own 
investigations on that person or business before setting up a payment.
Mr K was unhappy with that response and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was 
initially upheld by the Investigator. However, following arguments made by Wise in response 
to that uphold opinion, a second informal opinion was issued rejecting the complaint. Mr K 
disagreed with the Investigators second view and so the case was passed to me to 
consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 June 2023. I wrote:
It is common ground that Mr K authorised the payment. Under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss at first instance. However, this is 
not the end of the story. Wise is an electronic money issuer. The regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has confirmed that all e-money issuers must 
comply with legal requirements to deter and detect financial crime, which includes 
money laundering and terrorist financing. The nature and extent of those obligations 
have been set out in many final decisions issued by other ombudsmen at this 
service.
Broadly summarised, the obligations on Wise at the material time were to:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which firms are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered Wises obligations carefully and Im persuaded that it ought to have 
spotted the fraud risk here. The first payment Mr K made in connection with the scam 
was for £5,000 and to a new payee. I think there were enough factors in play here 
that Wise shouldnt have processed the first payment without first contacting Mr K to 
satisfy itself that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud.
If it had done so, I think its likely it wouldve prevented his losses. Theres nothing to 
suggest he wouldnt have been candid with Wise about the purpose of the transfers. 
And the arrangement Mr K had come to with what he believed was his employer was 
consistent with a common scam type and was sufficiently unusual that it ought to 
have elicited suspicion.
Wise has argued that, since it is an electronic money issuer rather than a bank, it 
necessarily views fraud risk differently. Its thresholds for marking an individual 
payment as suspicious are not the same. Im not persuaded that this approach is 
justifiable. Im mindful that Wise might face different challenges in respect of fraud 
prevention than a bank. A customer might not use an account with an EMI in the 
same way as they would use a current account at a bank. That means that the EMI 
might not have the same quantity of data to help them determine whether a payment 
is out of character or not, particularly if the account had only been open a short 
period of time.
But I dont think any of this posed a problem here. Mr Ks account wasnt brand new 
and had several months of activity on it. There was enough data to enable Wise to 
have treated the first payment as being not in keeping with the typical payments on 
the account.
Ive also considered whether or not Mr K should be considered partially responsible 
for his own losses here. In doing so, Ive taken into account what the law says about 
contributory negligence but also kept in mind that I must decide this case based on 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I do find it unusual that Mr K didnt act more cautiously here. While I understand he 
was out of work at the time and keen to find a new job, Im surprised that he didnt find the proposal unusual  i.e. that he was being asked to pay nearly £9,000 to allow 
him to carry out a new job. I think he ought really to have carried out some more 
research on the proposal and its likely hed have discovered that it was unlikely to be 
a legitimate operation.
For that reason, I think its fair and reasonable for a deduction of 50% to be made 
from any compensation paid.
I explained that I would likely ask Wise to refund 50% of the money Mr K lost as part of the 
scam. Mr K accepted my provisional decision. Wise disagreed. It explained that Mr K had 
authorised a payment of £3,835 shortly before making the £5,000 payment. In view of that, it 
didnt consider that the £5,000 wouldve appeared unusual or out of character. It also pointed 
out that Mr K had sent money to seven different recipients since opening up his account and 
so the fact that he was adding a new payee wasnt indicative of a fraud risk either.
Ive considered this response carefully, but Im not persuaded to depart from the conclusions 
I set out in my provisional decision. I accept that Mr K did make a significant payment two 
days prior to the scam payment. But I dont think thats sufficient to say that there was an 
established pattern of similar payments that the £5,000 payment was consistent with. I dont 
think the £5,000 payment can be considered typical merely because there was a single 
instance of another payment of a similar (albeit lower) amount just before it.
Overall, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I find that Wise ought to have 
intervened when Mr K asked it to make that payment and, if it had done so, I think its more 
likely than not that the scam wouldve been prevented. Nonetheless, Im persuaded that its 
fair and reasonable for it to consider Mr K partially responsible for his own losses and deduct 
50% from the compensation it now needs to pay him.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
If Mr K accepts my decision, Wise Payments Limited needs to refund 50% of the money he 
lost to the scam. It also needs to add 8% simple interest per annum to this sum calculated to 
run between the date Mr K made the payments and the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman