DRN-4037330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Covea Insurance PLC (Covea) who has voided their cover 
(treated it as though it never existed), following their claim under their home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were victims of a burglary at their home. They contacted Covea to make a 
claim. It asked them to provide a lost list, which they did. Because of the value of the items 
on the list, Covea appointed loss adjusters (LA) to validate the claim. 
During the risk assessment the LA found that Mr and Mrs P were underinsured, so the claim 
was referred to Coveas underwriters for further investigation. Following those investigations, 
Covea decided to void the policy. It said that it had found that the contents were 
underinsured, including the high-risk items limit. It said that had it been made aware of the 
true value of the items, then it would not have offered cover at all.  Covea then refunded all 
of the premiums Mr and Mrs P had paid for the policy, as it had been voided.
Mr and Mrs P said that they had insured the contents for £80,000, which was sufficient, as 
they had intended to carry out renovations and move out of the home, but Covid took place, 
and the works were postponed. Many of the items were below £200 in value and had been 
gifts that they didnt think needed to be disclosed. Also, items that were over £5,000 were 
not kept in the home. Only one item had been at the home, but they had intended to return 
that item back to its safe deposit, which was away from the home. They had a broker to 
assist due to language barriers. And that Covea didnt attempt to negotiate and made 
assumptions, without checking with them. 
Also, they couldnt understand why Covea wouldnt at least pay out for the damages to the 
property as they had cover for this of around £1M. Covea maintained its reasons for the 
voidance of the policy in its final response. And as Mr and Mrs P were given their referral 
rights, they referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators, considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
concluded that the onus was on Mr and Mrs P to provide accurate and complete information 
for all of their belongings, which he felt they had not done. Consequently, Coveas decision 
that a qualifying misrepresentation was done, was reasonable. And its decision to void the 
policy and refund the premiums, was fair. So, there was nothing further he could ask Covea 
to do regarding this complaint. 
Covea accepted the view, Mr and Mrs P did not. They maintained their position, that Covea 
failed to negotiate with them, that many of the items over £5,000 were kept away from the 
home in a safe deposit. That many of the items were below £200 and there was no reason 
why Covea shouldnt have dealt with the damage to the building, as they had sufficient cover 
for that. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P. But I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea said that there is an onus on a policyholder to ensure that the information they 
provide is accurate and factually correct. It also said that had it been made fully aware of all 
of the contents, and the values, it would not have offered cover. Based on this, Covea said 
that the misrepresentation by Mr and Mrs P was careless.
Mr and Mrs P compiled a loss list, which they provided to Covea. The total contents cover 
they had was for £80,000. But the list that was provided total nearly £40,000 more. Notably 
there was a coin collection worth £33,178.75, a stamp collection, as well as jewellery worth 
£44,389.73. These had been on cover since the policy inception. And without any other 
items being included or even if items were excluded, Covea said that this demonstrated that 
Mr and Mrs P had been underinsured.  
Ive reviewed what happened around the time of the sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs P. I 
note that they were asked a series of questions, to determine whether cover would be 
provided and whether Covea wouldve wanted to take on the risk.  These questions 
included:
The full replacement cost of all your contents is less than or equal to £80 000. 
The full replacement cost of all your high-risk items must not exceed £28 000 or the cost of 
the most expensive high-risk item in your home must not exceed £5 000. 
PERSONAL POSSESSIONS  The total value of unspecified items is (Limit £1,500 any one 
item) & The total value of specified items is (Maximum £5,000 any one item).
Given, that Mr and Mrs P were asked to disclose the high-risk items and valuables at the 
property, as well as their values. And to confirm the full replacement cost of those items, 
which shouldnt have exceeded £28,000, with any single item not exceeding £5,000. I dont 
think these questions were unusual or unclear. And as the valuations carried out by the LA Covea relied upon, far exceeded the policy limits, Im satisfied that Covea provided sufficient 
evidence to show that the policy was underinsured.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P said that they were not given the opportunity to negotiate 
with Covea, and that many of the items were kept away from the home and kept in a safe 
deposit. But I note that it was Mr and Mrs P who provided the loss list. Contained within the 
loss list was mention of items that Mr and Mrs P said were kept off site. In addition, there 
were items mentioned on the list that were clearly in excess of the single item limit of £5,000. 
And hadnt been specified on the statement of fact, such as various items of jewellery and 
the stamp collection.
Ive next looked at the actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA and one of the 
remedies allows for it to void Mr and Mrs Ps policy. Which lets it not have to deal with their 
claim following the burglary. Covea said that due to Mr and Mrs P failing to disclose the 
correct values of the high-risk items and contents, it would not have offered cover had it 
been made aware of the true value of the contents. In light of this, as I agree that the 
misrepresentation was careless, Im satisfied that Covea was fair to rely on CIDRA to void 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy.
Finally, Mr and Mrs P have queried why Covea havent dealt with the damage made to the 
property during the burglary, as they said that had sufficient cover. So Ive looked into this 
further. 
Covea voided the whole policy and refunded all the premiums from the inception of the 
policy. This meant it treated the policy as of it had never existed. Because of this, this meant 
there was no cover for the damage caused to the property. 
Taking everything into consideration. I find that the onus was on Mr and Mrs P to disclose 
factually correct and relevant information as required by the terms of the policy. Which then 
wouldve allowed Covea to make an informed choice as to whether it wouldve wanted to 
take on the risk. As this wasnt done, Im satisfied that Covea provided enough evidence to 
show there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And I think it was reasonable to void 
the policy (treated it as if it had never existed). I also think that it was fair to refund all 
premiums paid since inception of the policy. Consequently, there is nothing further I can ask 
Covea to do here. 
My final decision
Covea Insurance PLC has agreed to refund the premiums from the date of inception to the 
date the policy was voided. And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Covea Insurance PLC must refund the premiums from the date of 
inception to the date the policy was voided, within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
and Mrs P accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. If it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman