DRN-3514241
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) continually applied 
overdraft charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mrs R complained to Halifax about the overdraft charges applied to her account and 
requested a refund of fees dating back to 2007. Halifax said it couldnt look at her complaint 
about any charges before 11 June 2015 as she had raised it too late. Halifax says that there 
were no obvious signs of financial difficulty and that all charges were applied correctly in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account and that no bank error had been made.
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and reached the conclusion Halifax hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs R unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs R disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mrs R raised her complaint in December 2021 in relation to her overdraft dating back to 
2007. Six years before she raised her complaint is December 2015. And as Mrs R wouldve 
been aware of how she was using her overdraft and her limit from when she was granted it, I 
think Mrs R ought to have known enough to decide whether it was sustainable and the 
charges Halifax applied were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three 
years from when she ought to be reasonably aware she had reason to complaint provides 
Mrs R with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at Mrs Rs 
overdraft usage and charges applied from December 2015.
I can still look into Mrs Rs complaint about her overdraft outside this time if Im satisfied the 
failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances but Mrs R hasnt made us 
aware of anything that prevented her bringing her complaint. So I am unable to look at Mrs 
Rs overdraft and charges applied to it before December 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mrs R has said that Halifax should have continued to apply fees to her account when it was 
clear she wasnt using her overdraft in the manner it should have been used and that she 
was heavily reliant on it to make ends meet.  Just to be clear I havent considered whether 
the various amounts Halifax charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided  how much a bank charges 
for services is a commercial decision and not something we get involved with. 
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs various charging structures per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs R if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs 
Rs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have 
been aware Mrs R was experiencing financial difficulty and that her overdraft was 
unsustainable.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mrs R fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Halifax did treat Mrs R unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having a detailed look at Mrs Rs statements for the period in question  I 
dont think there was enough to suggest that Halifax ought to have realised she might have 
been experiencing financial difficulty or that her overdraft wasnt sustainable.
Mrs R reduced her overdraft limit from £1,950 to £1,800 in May 2016. I accept that Mrs R 
regularly used her overdraft during 2016, but she was rarely at the top of it and the incoming 
transactions brought it right down. Mrs R then went back into it again, but I dont think the 
cause of this was spending on essential day to day living - while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mrs Rs expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
From November 2016 the overdraft was paid off and following this Mrs R followed a pattern 
of becoming overdrawn and then incoming transactions would pay it off monthly with her 
seeing a credit balance through most of 2017 and 2018. Throughout 2019, again Mrs R was 
using her overdraft but I can see again there was lots of non-committed spending, some of 
which looks like it related to overseas travel as well as some large transfers in and out yet 
Mrs R was still able to maintain her overdraft.
And September I can see a large transfer of £4,500 which once again pays the overdraft off. 
This pattern continues with a pattern of going in and out of overdraft caused mainly by lots of 
discretionary transactions rather than spending on essential day to day living. I accept that 
there were some months where the account didnt see a credit balance. But use of an 
overdraft by itself isnt enough - I think  to say that Halifax ought to have stepped in.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Rs account was being used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax treated Mrs R unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs R. But I hope she understands the 
reasons for my decision and that she feels her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman