DRN-2687498
The complaint
Mrs H complains Sky UK Limited allowed a third party to take out fixed sum loan agreements 
without her consent or authority.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by Mr H. But for ease, Ill mainly refer to Mrs H 
throughout this decision.
 
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs H says she received letters from Sky asking her to pay for five fixed 
sum loan agreements for mobile phone handsets. Mrs H says the total amount for the five 
loans was around £5,100. 
Mrs H says she had no knowledge of the agreements and has remained adamant that she 
never consented to the agreements being taken out with her details. Mrs H says shes never 
received the handsets and also hasnt had use of them. Mrs H says she reported matters to 
both the police and Action Fraud  for which she received a crime reference number for. 
Additionally, Mrs H paid to have a Cifas marker loaded on her credit file to prevent her from 
falling victim to further fraud. And shes provided us with evidence of this.
Mrs H says shes now being pursued for the outstanding amount by a third-party debt 
collector. Mrs H wants the debt cleared and for her credit file to be amended to not show the 
agreements Sky is saying she is liable for. Mrs H also wants compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience the fraud has caused her.
Sky say theres enough evidence to show either Mrs H or someone effectively acting as her 
agent, was responsible for making the application for the loans. Sky say the handsets were 
delivered to Mrs Hs address and photo identification wouldve been requested upon 
delivery. So, Sky concluded that they were going to continue to hold Mrs H liable for the 
outstanding amount.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs concerns. In summary, she said she didnt think 
there was strong evidence to show Mrs H had consented to the agreements or provided 
apparent authority to someone else on her behalf. Our investigator also said there wasnt 
enough evidence to show it was Mrs H who used the handsets or that she benefitted from 
them. So, our investigator asked Sky to buy the accounts back from the third-party debt 
collector and end the agreements, leaving Mrs H with nothing further to pay.
Sky disagreed. They reiterated their stance on the matter and that they still remained of the 
opinion it was either Mrs H who applied for the loans or someone acting on her behalf. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about five fixed sum loan agreements which relate to a regulated activity as 
set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (as 
amended) (the RAO). Therefore, our service is able to consider a complaint about these 
types of agreements. Its my role to determine whether Mrs H consented or provided 
apparent authority for the five agreements. If I decide that Mrs H didnt consent to the 
agreements or provide her authority, its not my role to ascertain who did take out the 
agreements.
I can see from the evidence available that there were five agreements taken out for mobile 
phone handsets between August 2019 and October 2019. Sky have confirmed the 
agreements were taken out online and that identity checks wouldve been carried out  this 
wouldve included checking personal information such as name, date of birth and address. 
Sky havent been able to provide us with any information of the identity checks they say 
were carried out at the time or any other evidence about the information used at the 
application stage of these agreements. So, its difficult for me to determine exactly what 
details were used to take out the agreements. However, I can see the agreements have Mrs 
Hs home address and this is the same address she has provided us with. But the email 
address used isnt the one Mrs H has provided our service with. From our own research, this 
email address appears to relate to a business. We asked Mrs H about this and shes 
confirmed she doesnt know the email address used on the applications and has no 
association with the business this email address appears to relate to. On balance, I think its 
likely the email address used wasnt Mrs Hs.
Mrs Hs representative, Mr H, has also been consistent in telling us that Mrs H doesnt speak 
English and also isnt able to read or write in English. I can see from Skys internal notes that 
Mr H contacted them early December 2019 to raise his concerns about the letters Mrs H had 
received about the five agreements. The notes explain Mr H called on behalf of Mrs H 
because shes unable to speak English. The notes also detail that Mr H had to translate 
some of the security questions Sky had asked, to Mrs H, in order to proceed with the call. As 
Mrs H doesnt speak English, she says she wouldnt have been able to apply for the loan 
agreements. Having thought about this, I dont find this explanation to be unreasonable. In 
fact, I find it quite plausible.
 
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, contacted Sky within five days of receiving the letters. Mrs H also 
reported matters to the police and Action Fraud as she was concerned about the fraud. Mrs 
H also decided to register her details with Cifas to protect herself from any possible fraud in 
the future. In addition to this, Mrs H has told us Mr H made a call from their local police 
station so the officer could relay what had happened to Mrs H, to Sky. But Mr H says Sky 
refused to speak the police officer. Whilst I havent seen any evidence of this call, Ive got no 
reason to doubt what Mr H has told us. I can see from Skys contact notes that Mr H calls 
them several times on behalf of Mrs H to reiterate the fraudulent activity. But Sky advised 
Mrs H to report matters to the police. Having thought about all of this, I think these are 
actions of someone who has been a victim of fraud. On balance, I dont think Mrs H would 
report matters to the police on more than one occasion and Action Fraud if she took out the 
agreements herself or if she provided authority for someone to take out the agreements 
using her details. 
Mrs H told us she lives in her house with a few of her immediate family members. Mrs H 
says she has no reason to suspect her family members would have taken out these 
agreements using her details. And shes also told us she didnt provide anyone in her house 
with the authority to do so. Mrs H also says she would more often than not, be at home most 
days. But shes told us she never received the deliveries of the handsets. Additionally, Mrs H 
has provided flight details to show she, along with her other immediate family members (including Mr H), werent in the country when then last agreement was taken out and the 
handset was delivered.
Sky have provided us with several versions of what information was supplied to the delivery 
driver at the time the handsets were delivered. In some of the information, a delivery date 
and address hasnt been supplied. And in other information, whilst the address and date 
have been provided, the spelling provided to the delivery driver of Mrs Hs surname is 
incorrect. So, its difficult for me to ascertain exactly what information the delivery company 
took down at the time and what information has been supplied to us by Sky themselves.
Nonetheless, Sky havent been able to provide us with copies of the ID that was seen on 
each delivery. Or any details of the ID  other than the form of ID presented which I can see 
was a drivers license on more than one delivery. Mrs H has confirmed shes unable to drive 
and therefore, doesnt hold a drivers license. So, it wouldnt be possible for a drivers license 
to be provided in her name. Based on the information available to me, I cant be sure that it 
was actually Mrs Hs ID that was provided at the time of each delivery. Especially 
considering Mrs H doesnt drive.
Sky have provided us with a log of the calls made from one of the devices. Sky say one call 
was made to Mrs Hs landline and that there was also another call made to a mobile linked 
to a family member at the same address. Mrs H has remained consistent in telling us she 
has never had use of the handsets. 
Whilst I can appreciate this may suggest the person who has access to the handset may 
have a possible link to Mrs Hs address, Sky have acknowledged that what has happened 
here could be a domestic fraud incident. And if this is the case, then its not unusual or 
unlikely for there to be calls to numbers in the household. Having carefully considered what 
Sky have told us and the evidence available, Im not persuaded this evidence is conclusive 
of Mrs H providing her authority for someone to take out the agreements using her details.
Sky have told us that when investigating the fraud, they carried out checks which identified 
the IP details used when the fixed sum loan agreements were taken out. And that these 
matched Mrs Hs IP details. We asked Sky to provide us with this evidence, however, they 
havent been able to. So, I havent been able to verify what Sky have told us. Mrs H told us 
when she spoke to the police, they made her aware of possible actions fraudsters can take 
such as mimicking or spoofing IP addresses. And this could be a possibility. However, the 
issue for me to decide here is whether I think on balance, Mrs H consented or provided her 
apparent authority for the agreements. As Ive explained, it isnt for me to determine who 
committed the fraud. For all of the reasons Ive explained, I dont think theres enough 
evidence to show Mrs H consented to the agreements or authorised someone to take out the 
agreements.
 
Lenders also have a responsibility to carry out due diligence checks when providing credit. 
Given the agreements were taken out over three months, with the first three agreements 
being taken out in August 2019, I think this ought to have highlighted some concerns to Sky 
as it does appear to be quite unusual activity. I cant see Sky carried out further checks and 
had it done so, it may have found out sooner that Mrs H wasnt the one applying for the 
finance.
Having concluded that I dont think Mrs H consented to the fixed sum loan agreements or 
that she provided apparent authority for someone to take out the agreements on her behalf, I 
dont think its fair for Sky to continue holding Mrs H liable for the five agreements. I 
understand Sky have sold the outstanding debt on to a third-party debt collection company. 
So, I think Sky should buy the accounts back and end all five agreements. Sky should settle 
the agreements, leaving Mrs H with nothing further to pay and they should refund any payments Mrs H may have made towards the agreements. I also think Sky ought to remove 
any information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file in relation to the five fixed sum loan 
agreements.
I note Mrs H has experienced distress and inconvenience. And I can understand the worry 
caused to Mrs H in finding out that her details had been fraudulently used to take out five 
credit agreements. But I think a lot of the impact this has had on Mrs H has been as a result 
of the fraudsters actions, rather than Skys. So I wont be recommending any award for the 
distress caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. And I order Sky UK Limited to:
Buy back the accounts from the third party debt collector and end the agreements.
Arrange to settle the outstanding amounts, leaving Mrs H with nothing further to pay.
Refund any payments Mrs H may have made towards the agreement plus 8% simple 
yearly interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*
Remove all information from Mrs Hs credit file in relation to the five fixed sum loan 
agreements. 
*If Sky UK Limited think theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mrs H how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman