DRN-4243454
The complaint
Mr R has complained that JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a 
Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
Mr R met with an adviser from JLT in May 2010 to discuss his defined benefit pension.
A fact find analysis was undertaken to establish Mr Rs circumstances, as follows: 
Mr R was 39 and married.
He was employed, earning £50,000 pa.
Mr and Mrs R had dependent children.
Mr and Mrs R owned their home worth £420,000 with a £150,000 mortgage. 
They had cash savings of £1,000 and £3,000 in investments.
Mr and Mrs R owed £2,000 on credit cards and had a £1,000 overdraft.
Mr Rs attitude to risk was recorded as adventurous and he agreed to invest on a 20% 
balanced, 60% adventurous, 20% speculative risk investment basis.
Mr R had two pension arrangements. His preserved defined benefit entitlement which
was split into two parts of service estimated in 2010 to pay a total of £12,570 pa. This
estimate was subject to revaluation until normal retirement age (65). Mr R also had a defined
contribution pension with his employer which wasnt valued at the time of advice.
In 2010, the scheme trustees made an enhanced offer for Mr R to transfer his preserved 
benefits out of the scheme. The enhanced offer was a total transfer value of £98,751.
Alternatively, he could transfer a total lower sum of £85,770, and take a cash sum of
£11,508.03, which would be subject to tax.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) had been undertaken to show the level of investment 
growth required in order to replace the benefits at age 65 and 60. 
To match the benefits at age 65, a transfer would need a critical yield of between 7.7% and
7.9% at age 65, and it would be between 8% and 8.3% at age 60 based on Mr R taking the 
enhanced cash offer.
JLT issued a suitability report dated 17 June 2010. JLT recommended that Mr R transfer
the defined benefits to a Friends Provident PPP and invest in BlackRock funds to match his 
attitude to risk.
JLT noted Mr R had the following objectives, which formed the basis of its reasons for 
recommending the transfer:
He would like a cash sum, so he could make some home improvements.
The plan benefits did not represent a significant part of Mr Rs pension funding.
Mr Rs dependants would receive significant sums on his death before retirement.
He would prefer to move his pension to have control.
He wanted to take tax free cash (TFC) at retirement.
When he retired, he did not want his pension to increase to provide some protection 
against inflation.
He would like to retire early - possibly in his late fifties.
Mr R accepted JLTs recommendation and the transfer took place in June 2010.
JLT then wrote to Mr R in June 2021 to explain that it had completed a review into the
advice and deemed it to be suitable and that it met his needs. This letter also set out the
timescales that Mr R had to bring the complaint to this service and these were six
years from the date of advice or three years from when he became aware that he had
cause for complaint.
Mr R then raised a complaint in March 2023, but JLT declined to uphold it. Mr R asked this 
service to consider the matter further.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
With regard firstly to the jurisdiction of this service to consider the complaint  and 
specifically the timeliness of Mr R raising his complaint - Mr R had confirmed that he 
didnt have concerns before the review undertaken by JLT in June 2021, and had 
raised his complaint within three years of that. As such, the complaint fell within our 
jurisdiction.
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been given during the period when this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate was 6.9% pa for the period up to Mr Rs normal retirement date 
(65), and 6.7% to age 60. The regulators low, mid and upper band projected annual 
growth rates were 5%, 7% and 9% respectively.
This compared to a required critical yield to match the scheme benefits at 65 of 
between 7.7% and 7.9% if the cash enhancement was taken, and between 8% and 
8.3% at age 60 on the same basis.
Talking this into account, in addition to the composition of assets used to determine 
the discount rate, Mr Rs attitude to risk, and his term to retirement, it was likely that 
he would receive benefits of a materially lower overall value by transferring.Although Mr R was recorded as wanting control over his pension, he wasnt a 
particularly experienced investor and there was no suggestion that he had the drive 
or relevant knowledge to be able to manage his own pension funds.
Although Mr R may have found the prospect of retiring early appealing, this should 
have been subject to an anlysisis of whether or not this was in fact feasible. And 
although Mr R indicated that he would want £18,000 pa in retirement, given the 
number of years left until Mr Rs prospective retirement, it would in any case have 
been difficult to predict what his expenditure might be. And so this made it difficult to 
justify a transfer  at the age of 39  on the basis of possible early retirement.
The suitability report said that the defined benefits didnt represent a significant part 
of his pension funding, but this wasnt the case at that time. And by transferring, Mr R 
was placing all of his pension funds into a risk based environment.
Mr R was recorded as wanting to take tax free cash at retirement, but this was 
possible through the scheme. The amount available from a PPP might have been 
higher, but there was no indication as to why Mr R would have needed a higher tax 
free sum at retirement at the expense of guaranteed income.
Mr R also wished to take the cash enhancement for home improvements, but this 
should have been offset by the adviser informing him that this would be to the 
detriment of his future retirement provision. If this was a genuine desire, Mr R could 
have looked at other means of raising the funds.
In terms of the death benefits, although the prospect of a lump sum might have 
seemed appealing, the priority of pension benefits was to provide retirement security 
for the individual rather than act as a kind of life assurance plan. And JLT didnt do 
enough to establish to what extent Mr R was willing to accept lower overall benefits in 
retirement for the sake of the lump sum death benefit. And the size of any lump sum 
post retirement would in any case depend upon the amount remaining after Mr Rs 
withdrawals.
Further, Mr R had said that his family would receive significant funds in the event of 
his death and that the different way in which death benefits could be paid after a 
transfer wasnt a priority for him.
The investigator recommended that JLT undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with regulators policy statement PS22/13, and as set out in the regulators handbook in 
DISP App 4. Mr R planned to retire at 60, but given the likely size of his defined contribution 
plan by that time, it seemed likely that he wouldnt need to access his defined benefits before 
the schemes normal retirement age. And so the investigator said that the calculation should 
be based upon an assumed retirement age of 65, as per the regulators usual assumptions 
in its guidance. 
If the redress was paid directly to Mr R, JLT could make a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr R accepted the investigators assessment. JLT didnt, however, saying the following in 
summary:The point about capacity loss was subjective  Mr R had over 20 years to retirement, 
was earning £50,000 pa and had previous experience of investing. JLT considered 
that he had the ability to absorb any losses associated with stock market investment.
As confirmed by the investigator, businesses werent required to refer to discount 
rates when giving advice. JLT failed to see, therefore, why it was a useful indicator of 
the type of growth which would be achievable compared to the hurdle rate calculated 
by JLTs actuaries.
Mr R had confirmed that he intended to take the maximum tax free cash at 
retirement, and so the assessment should be based on the lower critical yields 
associated with this.
Mr R had confirmed that 60 was his preferred retirement age, and he was provided 
with the required critical yields to this age as well as to 65.
It had been Mr R whod confirmed in the fact find that the defined benefits didnt 
represent a significant percentage of his retirement benefits, and the suitability report 
simply reiterated this. But JLT acknowledged that the defined benefits did appear to 
represent a significant part of his retirement provision, as set out in its final decision 
letter.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view on the matter, however, and said that, 
as agreement hadnt been reached, it would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time JLT advised Mr R were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like JLT, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients 
needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their 
investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, JLT 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Rs objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of JLTs advice to Mr R in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.JLTs rationale for transferring
Mr R wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and JLT was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, JLT could be confident that he would be acting upon 
its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr R and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance was that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mr Rs options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, 
unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet 
specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr R would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
JLT obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Rs objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were 
deemed achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, 
similar rates were published by this service. Ive noted that JLT has questioned the 
usefulness of such discount rates, and as noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers. But I do think that, as one of 
several metrics, they would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of the type of 
investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 6.9% pa, and to age 60 this was 6.7%. And the low, mid and high band 
growth rates set out by the regulator were 5%, 7% and 9% respectively.
The critical yields to age 65, at between 7.7% and 7.9% to age 65, and to age 60, at 
between 8% and 8.3%, if the enhancement was taken as a cash sum, therefore exceeded 
both the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable, and both the low and mid growth 
rates used by the regulator.
JLT has said that the lower critical yields which assumed that the maximum tax free cash 
would be taken at retirement should be used for comparison purposes. But according to the 
suitability report, these were between 7.4% and 7.5% to age 65, and between 7.6% and 
7.8% to age 60  and so both still exceeded the lower and mid band regulators growth 
assumptions, and the discount rates, to those ages.
Ive noted that JLT considered 8.5% pa to be achievable in terms of growth, in line with Mr 
Rs attitude to risk and term to retirement, according to its in house actuaries. Ive also noted 
Mr Rs selected adventurous attitude to investment risk. But I have some concerns in that 
regard. Initially, Id acknowledge that, within the fact find the risk ratings were accompanied by 
descriptions of what this meant. I think its worth setting out here the description for the 
Adventurous categorisation:
You are willing to accept a high level of investment risk in order to seek significantly higher
growth and higher pension benefits at retirement You are prepared to accept that this will 
increase the risk of large fluctuations in the value of your investment and losing some or 
possibly all of your capital. You could get back less than you invest. Typically, you would 
consider investing primarily in Shares both in the UK and overseas and you will be exposed 
to currency risk via investment in overseas markets. Initially all of your investment will be in 
Shares but risk should be reduced as you near retirement by spreading your investment 
across the other asset classes.
Mr R also indicated within the fact find that he had £3,000 in other investments.
But this could have been in fairly mainstream products such as ISAs (even cash ISAs) or 
PEPs, which wouldnt necessarily in my view confer on someone a particularly sophisticated 
experience or knowledge of investing, such that JLT could be reassured that Mr Rs selected 
adventurous risk rating didnt require further examination.
Additionally, as acknowledged by JLT as not being accurate, Mr R indicated in the fact find 
that the defined benefits didnt represent a significant proportion of his pension provision. As 
far as I can tell, other than the defined contribution scheme which I understand began three 
years earlier, Mr Rs defined benefits represented the entirety of his pension provision.
I think that this ought to have been quite apparent from even a cursory assessment of the 
information Mr R had provided in the fact find. And I think it ought to have prompted 
additional questioning as to Mr Rs understanding of his financial situation, along with his 
understanding and appreciation of investment risk. 
Whilst I accept that it was entirely possible that, given the number of years left until 
retirement, Mr R was prepared to take some risk with his pension funds, my view is that his 
circumstances  modest savings/investments and unknown investment experience  
combined with the inconsistencies in his assessment of his financial position, wouldnt sit 
comfortably with an adventurous risk rating. And I think it was incumbent upon JLT to 
assess this in more detail and explain to Mr R why this was the case.
Its not possible to know the outcome of any further hypothetical discussion regarding this, 
but I think there are clues. Mr R didnt express a straightforward adventurous risk rating, 
instead seeking to balance more speculative investment with balanced investment. And I 
think had JLT pointed out that, by transferring, the entirety of his pension provision, rather 
than just the defined contribution part of it, would be exposed to investment risk, he would 
more likely than not have viewed things differently.
Therefore, whilst the critical yields might have been lower than the upper growth band set by 
the regulator, bearing in mind Mr Rs seeming misunderstanding of his financial position and 
lack of significant other investments and experience, I think the mid band growth rate is likely 
to be the more relevant here in terms of the type of risk to which Mr R was likely to want to 
be exposed, or even if Im wrong on that, to which he in any case ought to have been 
exposed.
Therefore, in the event of a more fully assessed and appropriate risk rating for Mr R, the 
regulators growth assumptions and the discount rate, I think its more likely than not that the 
critical yields would have been unachievable, year on year, for the number of years that Mr 
R had until he reached either early or normal retirement age. And as a reminder, the critical yields set out above were required to just match the scheme benefits. They needed to be 
bettered to provide enhanced benefits.
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the guidance 
was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Rs best 
interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial 
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr R would be relinquishing.
But financial viability isnt the only consideration  other factors also needed to be taken into 
account to determine whether the transfer was suitable, or necessary, to meet Mr Rs 
objectives.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that JLT did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as JLT will be aware, 
risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail 
contained in a recommendation report, this also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice 
suitable. JLT needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing 
the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr R. And 
Id also reiterate my concerns about Mr Rs recorded risk rating as set out above
As set out above, part of JLTs reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr R 
required flexibility of income and control over his pension funds. And so Ive given these 
arguments careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr R may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. Although 
again Id point to my comments above about Mr Rs actual understanding of his financial 
position and the degree of risk to which he should have been exposed. 
But I dont think Mr R in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of the 
control and flexibility argument, I understand this to mean that Mr R would have control 
over his pension funds, outside of the scheme, and could alter the income he withdrew from 
a flexi-drawdown arrangement. 
But as noted above, by age 65, Mr R would have accrued around 28 years worth of defined
contributions in the replacement scheme, or 23 years by age 60. Given the likely value of 
this separate pot of money on the basis of the contribution rate, which, on the basis of a 2% 
pa increase in salary and the regulators mid band growth rate, might have been in the 
region of £62,000, this could be used to plug any gaps between him starting to take flexible 
benefits early and his OPS/state pension beginning. 
Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the years 
from whatever age Mr R chose to retire (if early) left to age 65  although as with the 
investigator I would say that I dont think the actual income requirement was demonstrably 
known at the time of advice, or could in any case reasonably have been known with any 
certainty given his distance from retirement - Mr R could then have begun to take the 
scheme benefits early if needed.In light of this, and given that in the 14 years up to that point Mr R had been accruing defined 
benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been of 
considerable value. And they shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of flexibility 
which, as far as I can tell, was loosely defined around the possibility of early retirement  
albeit the actual likely decision making around this was some years distant  and which, as 
set out above, could in any case likely have been achieved to some degree by accessing his 
defined contribution accrual before the scheme benefits.
Mr Rs plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 20 
intervening years between then and him reaching age 60. Any flexibility requirements could 
have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Rs retirement  and Mr R would have 
been able to transfer out of the OPS then if needed.
Mr R therefore didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined benefits 
at that point. The cash enhancement of around £11,507 may have been appealing, but if this 
was a factor in Mr Rs decision making as to whether to transfer, it was the responsibility of 
JLT to consider other ways in which this might be achieved before recommending the 
transfer. 
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the mooted possibility 
of early retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, 
was sufficient reason for Mr R to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
I cant see that the different manner of payment of these in the event of the transfer was an 
important consideration for Mr R.
But suffice to say that I agree with the investigators observations that accrued pension 
provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a 
legacy in the form of a lump sum. The recommendation needed to be given in the context of 
Mr Rs best interests rather than any lump sum legacy for his family.
So I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit by way of transferring his defined benefits 
constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for 
Mr R personally. 
What should JLT have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Rs decision?
There was in my view no need for Mr R to make any decision about transferring his OPS 
benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of JLT to explain to Mr R why he 
didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing valuable scheme pension 
guarantees. 
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr R was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him. And looking at those options, especially relating to 
flexibility, I dont think enough weight or consideration was given to the alternative means, 
such as the defined contribution plan, of achieving this.
For the reasons given above, I dont in any case think the perceived advantage of flexibility 
and control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied 
that Mr Rs income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different 
types of accrued benefits and other assets by the time he came to point when he was 
considering early retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling reasons for Mr R to 
relinquish 14 years valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 39.
Mr R could have paid for his home improvements through the exploration of other options 
instead of accessing the £11,507 which would be paid as a cash enhancement. An in doing 
so, JLT ought to have emphasized the value of his pension scheme accrual, such that he 
appreciated the important guaranteed benefits which he would be relinquishing for the sake 
of income flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, 
and a future pension which would, other than the state pension from age 67, be entirely 
dependent upon investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as 
would otherwise have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the 
PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the low/mid 
band growth rates set out by the regulator. And given the level of risk to which Mr Rs 
pension funds ought reasonably to have been exposed, Id reiterate that I think it was 
unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits.
Taking account of Mr Rs circumstances, his objectives and the guarantees which the OPS 
offered, my view is that JLT should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr R would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to the conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr R, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Rs options and the future benefits available from both the OPS 
defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 
19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr R were available without needing 
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of 
scheme benefits which would have been available to him. 
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, and the risk to which Mr Rs pension 
funds ought to have been exposed, and matching that with the likely corresponding 
investment returns, it was unlikely, albeit I acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits 
available from the OPS could be bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as set out in COBS 2.1.1R and the guidance of 
COBS 19.1.6, JLT would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that 
transferring wasnt in Mr Rs best interests.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
I consider that Mr R would most likely have remained in the OPS if suitable advice had been 
given. 
JLT Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Mr R hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. And as Ive set out above, given 
the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr R would take 
his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined above, of 
accessing his accrued defined contributions and other assets flexibly if required. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, JLT Wealth Management Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts JLT Wealth Management Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr R 
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also
recommend that JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on JLT Wealth Management 
Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on JLT Wealth Management Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr R could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct JLT Wealth Management Limited 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman