DRN-3298280
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr H have complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for 
damage to a property arising from an escape of water under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr H held insurance for the property with UKI at the relevant time. In July 2018, 
Mrs A and Mr H discovered a leak from a defective waste pipe carrying foul water which 
caused damage to the property. Mrs A and Mr H appointed a building surveyor to act for 
them, who prepared a schedule of repairs and sent the schedule out to tender.
The claim was reported to UKI and its loss adjusters carried out an inspection of the 
property. It indicated that the repair costs would be in the region of £30,000. The estimates 
obtained by Mrs A and Mr H were for between just over £125,000 and nearly £142,000. The 
lowest tender was provided by Mrs A and Mr Hs property company. UKI declined to 
progress the claim as it didnt consider that Mrs A and Mr H had co-operated with its claims 
process. Mrs A and Mr H complained to UKI, however UKI maintained its position.
Mrs A and Mr H were unhappy that UKI had declined to progress their claim and complained 
to this service. They wanted their full claim of just over £125,000 to be paid by UKI. They 
explained that the damage affected high quality finishes and that there were few trades 
people who could carry out this work. Mrs A and Mr H also complained that three meetings 
were cancelled by UKIs loss adjusters. It said UKI had blamed Mrs A and Mr Hs surveyor 
for delay as he was sometimes abroad, during this period, however they said he could be 
reached and could nevertheless respond to any queries.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs A and Mr Hs complaint. He noted that the value of the 
claim was substantially higher than the initial claim assessment. He didnt consider it 
unreasonable that UKI would want to carry out further enquiries in all the circumstances.
Mrs A and Mr H remain dissatisfied with the outcome of their complaint and its therefore 
been referred to me in order to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to decide on the balance of probabilities, is not whether any claim by 
Mrs A and Mr H should be paid once its been through insurance processes, but whether 
UKI has handled the matter fairly and reasonably up to this point. I consider that it has, for 
the following reasons.
The policy provides cover for certain insured events, one of which is escape of water and 
this appears to be the cause of the damage to the property for which Mr H and Mrs A made 
a claim. The policy states that; For any claim you must...Give us any relevant information 
and evidence that we ask for, including proof of ownership or value of the lost or damaged 
item and written estimates for repair. You will have to do this at your own expense Allow 
us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged items and/or property. UKI 
has also quoted the following provision: - If you dont follow our claim conditions, and this 
negatively affects our positionWe will reject your claim or be unable to deal with it, or We 
will not pay your claim in full.
Firstly, turning to what Mrs A and Mr H have said about the matter, they explained that 
following purchase of the property in 2014, theyd carried out a high quality and expensive 
refurbishment of the property at a cost of £450,000.They noted that UKI ultimately instructed 
a building surveyor and a loss adjuster who was able to deal with claims in excess of 
£100,000 to meet their building surveyor in November 2019. He confirmed the high standard 
of finish. UKIs building surveyor said he was preparing his own schedule of repairs, but Mr 
H said this didnt happen. Mrs A and Mr Hs representative considered that this action 
pointed to an election by UKI to carry out reinstatement under the policy. He thought that 
UKI had; waived their rights to further investigation and admitted policy liability.
Mrs A and Mr Hs representative also thought that UKIs stance changed when it engaged a 
commercial fraud investigator who issued a reservation of rights letter in April 2020, 
outlining concerns to be addressed. He said that all questions were truthfully and fully 
answered and indeed Mrs A and Mr H had themselves raised an anomaly in one of the 
tenders. In June 2020 he said that UKI refused to progress the claim until a face to face 
meeting took place between Mrs A and Mr H and the fraud investigator.
Mr H and Mrs As representative said that they had complied with the wording of the policy 
conditions and that there was no requirement under the policy to submit to a meeting with an 
investigator. He said that they would accommodate access or inspection of the property by 
the investigator, (although UKI had already sent two loss adjusters and a building surveyor 
to inspect the damage). In April 2020, the representative nevertheless noted that the 
...Fraud Investigator was supposed to interview my clients with our appointed insurance 
claims investigator, but nothing has materialised. Our clients are quite anxious to proceed 
with the works as scheduled and tendered, although owing to Covid 19 restriction prohibiting 
works to be undertaken. Our clients wish to proceed with the works once the lock down 
ceases.
He also referred to a further letter from UKI in December 2020 which again suggested that 
Mrs A and Mr H had breached a policy condition. He said that the notion that not allowing a 
meeting with a fraud investigator was a breach of the claims conditions was nonsensical; -
as this is an implied term which is subservient to an explicit term. The explicit term is that 
the Consumer must provide information the Insurer requires. The manner as to how this is 
done is for the consumer to elect - in this case it is in writing. Our Clients are not criminals.
The representative also considered that this was an unfair contract term and a breach of 
statute. His concern was that the purpose of the meeting with an investigator was to entrap 
his clients into making comments which would serve Insurers to defeat the claim and 
denying their rights to be treated fairly.
More recently, the representative has stated that his clients werent required to submit to 
blackmail in order that their claim might be considered. He also thought that the 
requirement of a face to face meeting might be regarded as libellous as he thought it 
impugned his clients integrity when the correct options to obtain information as required by 
the policy were ignored. He didnt consider this to be accepted market practice. He said that 
it went to the heart of his clients case that they hadnt been advised upon what basis the 
claim was being investigated. He considered that they were entitled to know what evidence 
UKI held which was of such concern.He said that Mrs A and Mr had been forced to undertake the insured repairs, deciding they 
needed to locate away from the property and to then let it. In summary, he thought that his 
clients were entitled to the full cost of repairs as per their tender bid, alternative 
accommodation, professional fees and an award for damages against UKI for what he 
considered to be the negligent manner they have conducted themselves outside the terms 
of the policy in denying liability. Finally, he didnt believe that this service had functionality to 
deal with his clients dispute and that; This case requires to be put before the Court as a 
Test Case under the Financial Services Regime, either by the FOS or the FCA
Turning to Mr Hs witness statement dated August 2020, as to the tender document for the 
work to the property submitted by Mrs A and Mr Hs property company, he said that three 
contractors were required to submit individual tenders. Two were unable to respond to their 
building surveyor and Mr H acknowledged that this left them short of tenders to complete the 
process. He and Mrs A then had to find other contractors to quote. The building surveyor 
agreed that it would be acceptable for Mr H and Mrs As company to provide a tender as 
theyd arranged and supervised and arranged their original works, were best placed to 
undertake the repairs and they are the most competitive .They specifically asked if they 
could be allowed to tender to repair their own property through their own company and again 
the building surveyor agreed to this.
A further tender was submitted in liaison with Mr H and Mrs A by a company who had 
previously been engaged by them to carry out work. That companys Director also submitted 
a witness statement about the tender he submitted in October 2019, having inspected the 
property, and completed the forms in liaison with Mr H. He agreed for Mr H to convert his 
completed hand-written tender document into excel format, which included the e-mail 
address of the third tenderer in error.
As to what UKI have to say with regard to the tender documents, they noted that theyd been 
presented a while after the original visit by its loss adjuster and represented a substantial 
change in the scope and an increase in the proposed works and costs. It therefore referred 
the matter to its claims validation department to review the information. It established that a 
further visit was necessary.
It said that it made it clear in correspondence in April 2020 that a face to face meeting was 
required once government restrictions were lifted. It said that despite a further seven emails 
and letters being sent to their representative, no reference or response to the request for a 
meeting had been provided. It said that every opportunity had been given for a meeting date 
to be scheduled to discuss the; concerns with the claim you have presented.
UKI considered that liability was conditional upon compliance with the terms and conditions 
in the policy and it referred on several occasions to the policy wording quoted above in this 
decision. It said that it wasnt satisfied that the claim as presented was covered by the terms 
and conditions of Mrs A and Mr Hs policy. It also said that; there may be other reasons why 
no payment is possible, and we reserve the right to rely on such other reasons should the 
necessity arise.
As to a comment by Mrs A and Mr Hs representative requesting information which greatly 
exceeds the information originally requested, it said that it was; normal practice to require 
additional information as a claim progresses, especially in a claim where there is such an 
enormous disparity in the scope of works. It also said that its requests were for clarity 
around aspects of the claim and it considered this to be perfectly reasonable. It said it 
wished to inspect the premises and conduct an interview to establish the nature of the claim 
and the work required to rectify the damage caused by the initial escape of water. In its final 
response letter to Mrs A and Mr H, UKI stated that; as an insurance company some of the claims we investigate will be fraudulent however that is not always the case. It is standard 
procedure for us to appoint a supplier to conduct a face to face interview.
It wrote further in November 2020 to say that it would be unable to provide a list of specific 
questions as the questioning will be reflective on the responses provided. We can also 
confirm this is part of the general claims process. In December 2020, it repeated that the 
purpose of the on-site meeting was to clarify details and validate the claim; As this will be a 
fluid discussion, we are unable to provide written questions in advance, as requested. This is 
standard process. We remind you that the co-operation of our policy holder(s) and their 
representative(s) is both expected, and in fact, a policy requirement. continued refusal to 
co-operate will result in rejection of this claim in accordance with policy terms. There will be 
no further notice in this regard.... In January 2021 it wrote to Mrs A and Mr H as follows; - 
Further, the various responses that we have received from [the representative] on your 
behalf have caused unnecessary delays to this claim by failing to address our reasonable 
and necessary requests, and repeatedly raising points which are not directly relevant to your 
claim.
Its my role in such cases is to facilitate impartial complaints resolution between parties and 
to reach a determination as to what we think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of each case. There are two key matters for me to consider here, firstly 
whether Mrs A and Mr H are in breach of the specific terms and conditions of their policy as 
quoted above. Secondly, if this is not the case, whether UKIs requirement for a face to face 
meeting is nevertheless a fair and reasonable expectation to progressing this claim. I make 
no findings at this stage as to the question of the validity or otherwise of the claim itself.
On the first question of the specific terms and conditions of the policy as above and the 
requirement to; Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for the policy 
does not specify how that information is to be sought by the insurer and provided by the 
policyholder. I dont agree with UKI therefore that Mrs A and Mr H have failed to comply with 
this specific condition in the policy and Ive seen no evidence that they have failed to provide 
any information and evidence specifically requested by UKI.
On the second question of whether UKIs requirement for a face to face meeting was 
nevertheless reasonable in all the circumstances, Mrs A and Mr Hs representative referred 
to the requirement for a face to face meeting as being an implied term which is subservient 
to an explicit term. I note this view and I also note that in April 2020, there appeared to be 
clear acceptance on behalf of Mrs A and Mr H that a face to face meeting and site inspection 
would take place with an investigator and that he; was supposed to interview my clients with 
our appointed insurance claims investigator, but nothing has materialised. In addition to 
this, Im satisfied that in the circumstances of this case, a request for a face to face meeting 
was reasonable. A meeting at which questions would flow, depending on responses 
received would be an entirely fair requirement to proceed to consider a complex claim. 
Due to the very significant discrepancies between the scope of damage and costs as 
identified by UKIs loss adjusters and the three tenders which were submitted, I dont 
consider it to have been unreasonable for the matter to have been referred to UKIs claims 
validation department for further review and consideration. 
As to UKIs requirement for a face to face meeting, there are undoubtedly discrepancies 
which both parties recognised, and which needed to be explored and discussed in detail. 
Examples of such discrepancies are as follows. Theres a large discrepancy as to the 
potential cost of the works. UKIs initial reserved costs were £30,000 and the lowest tender 
figure was for over £125,000. For claims of this size, insurance companies would ordinarily 
and reasonably wish to conduct further checks. Its also unusual that the successful tenderer 
is the claimant and additional rigour in the claims process is therefore to be expected. One of the other two tenders has been submitted in somewhat unusual circumstances where Mr H 
was assisting the tenderer with paperwork. Mr H has also acknowledged an error in this 
tender which appears to import an e-mail address from a third tender. 
In conclusion, there are matters to be discussed directly with Mrs A and Mr H in order for 
reasonable scrutiny of the claim to take place and a face to face meeting is not an unfair or 
unreasonable request to ensure that UKI is able to obtain all relevant information.
As to Mrs A and Mr Hs representatives comment that he didnt believe that this service had 
functionality to deal with his clients dispute and that it should be placed before the courts, 
Ive explained the scope of our service above, and this doesnt preclude either party litigating 
the matter through the courts. Mrs A and Mr Hs representative has provided references to 
caselaw, some of which may or may not be relevant to the facts of their case if litigated. In 
this respect, I agree with Mrs A and Mr Hs representative that it may be more appropriate 
for him to test any specific legal arguments through the courts if his clients so wish.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs A and Mr Hs complaint and I dont require 
UK Insurance Limited to do any more in response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman