DRN-4450651
The complaint
Mr M and Miss P complain AWP P&C SA settled their travel insurance claim unfairly. 
What happened
In March 2023 Mr M and Miss P were on a trip abroad. A travel document for Mr M, and 
other items, were stolen. As a result they had to abandon part of their trip. They had to book 
an alternative flight home as Mr M was unable to use the original without a replacement 
document. 
When they did return to the UK they claimed against their AWP travel insurance policy for 
various costs including the replacement document, additional and unused accommodation 
and travel, bank fees and stolen cash. They felt the total claimed, around £1,550, would be 
covered by their policy. AWP eventually paid a settlement of about £220. Mr M and Miss P 
werent happy so made a complaint. They felt the cancellation and travel disruption sections 
of their policy should cover unsettled items  including unused accommodation and 
replacement travel. 
AWP responded to Mr M and Miss Ps complaint. It didnt agree to pay anything extra. It said 
their policy covers the cost of replacement documents and travel or accommodation costs 
incurred to obtain it. It said it doesnt cover additional costs they had claimed for including 
the costs of returning to the UK. It said the cancellation section of their policy only covers 
departures. 
AWP explained the policy does cover travel disruption, but not when the cause is loss of 
documents. Whilst it didnt uphold their complaint about the claim settlement, it did pay 
Mr M and Miss P £150 to apologise for service issues when processing the claim. They 
werent satisfied with that outcome, so came to this service. To resolve their complaint they 
would like AWP to settle their claim in full and pay additional compensation for the delay. 
Our Investigator didnt recommended AWP do anything differently. She explained Mr M and 
Miss Ps policy does cover travel disruption and cancellation but only in certain 
circumstances. She said the loss of travel documents isnt one of those. She felt AWP had 
paid out in line with the policy terms. Finally she felt it had provided some poor service, but 
considered £150 fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Mr M and Miss P didnt accept that outcome. They said they had been told by AWP, before 
claiming, that their cancelled travel and accommodation costs would be reimbursed. They 
say if they hadnt been told that they could have tried to obtain refunds from hotels and 
airlines. But they feel its now too late to do so. As the complaint wasnt resolved it was 
passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr M and Miss Ps policys terms and conditions. It does provide up to 
£5,000 cover for cancellation or curtailment. However, it only covers cancellation or 
curtailment (cutting short) when the cause is one of the listed events. These include death, 
illness, injury and being called to court as a witness or for jury service. It doesnt list loss or 
theft of travel or identity documents. So I cant say AWP unfairly refused to cover any costs 
under this part of Mr M and Miss Ps policy. 
The policy also covers travel disruption. Within this section it sets out cover for travel delay, 
missed departures and accommodation disturbance. But again only in certain 
circumstances. For example missed departures are covered but only if the cause is public 
transport failure, a motor vehicle breakdown or there being too many passengers booked on 
a flight. Accommodation disturbance is payable when accommodation is unused because of 
flood, fire etc or an outbreak of infectious disease. None of these events are relevant to 
Mr M and Miss Ps circumstances. So I cant say AWP unfairly declined any claim made 
against the travel disruption section of the policy. 
Loss of important documents is covered by the policy. This section provides for the cost of a 
visa or passport. It also covers reasonable travel and accommodation expenses in obtaining 
a replacement of the lost or stolen document.  The policy also covers stolen cash. Ive 
considered those part of the cover, including the applicable excesses and the list of items 
Mr M and Miss P claimed for. Having done so, I cant say AWPs settlement offer was unfair 
or unreasonable. It seems, from what Ive seen, to have been made in line with the terms of 
the policy.
Mr M and Miss P say they were incorrectly told by AWP their claim would be paid in full. 
Even if that did happen, I wouldnt require AWP to make any additional payment as a result, 
unless I was persuaded it had caused Mr M and Miss P to lose out financially. For that Id 
need to be persuaded if they hadnt been provided with misleading information, they would 
have been able to successfully claim back the costs of their flights or accommodation from 
the providers. I dont know the terms of those bookings, but I havent been shown anything 
to make me think they likely would have been able to obtain refunds. So I cant say AWP 
caused them to lose out financially.
I accept Mr M and Miss P did experience some poor customer service from AWP. But I 
agree with our Investigator that the £150 already paid is enough to recognise the impact of 
any unnecessary distress or inconvenience AWP caused them. So Im not going to require 
AWP to pay anything extra to settle their claim or any additional compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr M and Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman