Complaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr A took out a credit card in September 2009. Mr A took out a PPI policy over the 
telephone when he called to activate his card.
The PPI would have cost Mr A 79p per £100 of the outstanding statement balance on his 
card. It would have paid out 10% of that balance if Mr A couldn't work because he had an 
accident, if he was too ill or if he lost his job. It would have been paid for up to 12 months at 
a time per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold this complaint. Mr A disagreed with this view and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As case.
Having done that, Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I 
will explain why.
This sale took place over ten years ago so Capital One doesn't have all the evidence from 
the time, for example it is unable to provide a call recording when Mr A took out the PPI. This 
is understandable as businesses aren't required to keep records indefinitely. Mr A also 
doesn't remember all that happened during the sale. But where the information is incomplete 
or inconsistent, I will base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is the standard I 
will use to decide what is more likely to have happened, taking into account what the parties 
have told me, the paperwork that is available and using our knowledge of how this business 
sold this type of policy at that time.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr A had a fair choice about buying the policy. 
He told us that it wasn't made clear the policy was optional. As Ive explained Mr A took out 
the PPI when he called Capital One to activate his credit card. Capital One has been able to 
provide me with a copy of Mr As credit card application form. Although, Mr As personal 
details are completed on the form, Mr A doesn't appear to have completed the box to accept 
the PPI at that point. Ive next gone on to look at the call script from that time. I think Capital 
One would have likely given Mr A an option to buy the PPI or leave it during that 
conversation and I think its likely Mr A gave his consent to the policy being added to his 
DRN-1699668account. I also think the PPI likely would have appeared on his credit card statements, so if 
he didn't want it or hadn't realised hed taken it out, he could have questioned the PPI at any 
time with Capital One. I havent seen evidence that Mr A did this. 
Taking all this into account, I think its more likely Mr A chose the PPI at the time knowing he 
could decline it if he didnt want it - even if its understandable if he cant remember now after 
such a long time.
Capital One didn't recommend the PPI to Mr A. That meant it didn't need to make sure it was 
suitable for him. But it still had to give him clear enough information, so he could decide for 
himself whether he wanted the cover and make an informed choice.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it should have been. But that 
doesn't mean I can automatically uphold this complaint. I next must consider whether Mr A 
would have made a different decision and not bought the cover if hed been given all the 
information he should have been given. 
To help me decide Ive thought about Mr As personal circumstances at the time of the sale 
and looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. On balance, even if Mr A had been 
given clearer or better information, I still think he would have bought the PPI. 
I say this because I think he chose the cover and more information would have confirmed he 
was eligible for the policy. And he wasn't affected by any of the main limitations and 
exclusions of the policy that might have made it harder to make a successful claim - such as 
an unusual employment situation or a pre-existing medical condition.
Mr A says he didn't receive sick pay from work, and he hasn't told us about any other means 
he had to fall back on if things went wrong. So, if hed been unable to work this policy would 
have been useful to him as it would have paid out for up to 12 months at what no doubt 
would have been a stressful time. 
And theres nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable at that time.
Ive considered everything Mr A has told me and I realise he feels strongly about this 
matter.  Im sorry for the difficulties he faced in 2012. But looking at the sale in 2009, I cant 
say Capital One did anything wrong at the time and overall I dont think he lost out as a 
result.
I realise Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope the reasons Ive given, 
explain why I dont uphold his complaint. This means that Capital One doesn't have to pay 
back all the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to him because it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. It was unfair for Capital One not to 
disclose that to Mr A. To put that right, I understand Capital One has paid back the amount 
of commission and profit share it received that was above 50% of the PPI premium.I think 
that is a fair way to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. So Capital One (Europe) 
plcdoes not have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to  Mr A any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman