DRN-3746243
The complaint
Mrs M says Santander UK Plc irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs Ms complaint is about a credit card supplied by Santander. The account was opened in 
November 2012 with an initial credit limit of £7500. No further credit limit increases were 
applied.
Mrs M complains that Santander lent irresponsibly lent to her.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didnt think that the checks carried out by 
Santander were reasonable and proportionate.
Santander didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said that a change in Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances after she took out the credit card wasnt a reason to say that it had lent 
irresponsibly.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, is set out on this services 
website.
Santander needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could afford to repay what was being lent in a  sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount and the customers income and expenditure.
Santander didnt provide its file in response to requests from this service. In its final 
response to Mrs M, it said that affordability had been checked in accordance with its lending 
policies and that it didnt think it had lent irresponsibly.
Ive taken what Santander has said into account. And Ive considered all of the available 
information, including the information provided by Mrs M which shows her financial 
circumstances at the time she applied for the credit card.
I dont know what checks Santander carried out before agreeing to lend to Mrs M. The initial 
credit limit was £7500, which is a significant amount of credit, so Id expect the checks which 
Santander carried out to have been thorough.
I can see that Mrs M held a current account with Santander at the time she applied for the 
credit card. Id expect Santander to have looked at this account as part of its checks. The 
current account had an overdraft facility, which Mrs M was making use of. In addition to this, 
Mrs M also had a joint account with another bank on which over £10,000 was owed. I think 
this joint account liability would have shown up if Santander had checked Mrs Ms credit file.
Ive also seen that Mrs M was making monthly payments to a debt management plan at the 
time she applied for the credit card. These payments were being made from her Santander 
account. I think its reasonable to say that if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, Santander wouldve seen that Mrs M was already having difficulties managing her 
finances.
Ive also considered what Santander wouldve known about Mrs Ms income and 
expenditure. Mrs Ms monthly income at the time she applied for the credit card was around 
£1000. She already had an obligation to make payments to the debt management plan each 
month and was using her overdraft on the current account. Based on this, I dont think Mrs M 
was likely to be able to repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner.
Taking everything into consideration, I think that if Santander had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks, these checks wouldve shown that Mrs M wasnt able to afford the 
borrowing.
Putting things right
When I uphold a complaint, I would generally ask the business to put the consumer back in 
the position they wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt happened. This isnt possible here 
because Mrs M has used the credit and made repayments. So to put things right, I think 
Santander should refund interest and charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander UK Plc must:
Rework the credit card balance so that all interest and charges applied from the inception of 
the account onwards are removed
If an outstanding balance remains after the rework, Santander must agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs M
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information in relation to the agreement 
should be removed from Mrs Ms credit file
If the refund means there is no outstanding balance, any balance should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mrs M together with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made to the date of settlement
HMRC require Santander to deduct tax from the refund of interest. Santander must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman