DRN-1741685
 
The complaint
Ms D complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) should have sent letters relating to a 
joint bank account to both her and her former husbands addresses. 
What happened
Mr D and Ms D have a joint bank account with HSBC. They are no longer married and dont 
reside at the same address. They are unable to close the joint account until the overdraft on 
it has been cleared. Mr D and Ms D have agreed that only Ms D will use the account. 
A letter, addressed only to Mr D, was sent to his address by HSBC on 11 September 2019. 
This said that another bank had contacted HSBC about a payment made in error by one of 
its customers to Mr D and Ms Ds joint account. It asked Mr D for his consent to return the 
payment to the other bank. Mr D did not respond to the letter. 
A second letter, again addressed only to Mr D, was sent to Mr Ds address on 23 September 
2019. This largely repeated what was said in the earlier letter and asked Mr D to contact it 
within 7 days to discuss returning the payment made in error. Mr D did not respond to the 
letter. 
Ms D complained to HSBC on 29 September 2019. HSBC says Ms D told it her son had 
taken home one of the letters mentioned above, from Mr Ds address. Ms D complained that 
the letter wasnt also addressed to her and had only been sent to her former husbands 
address. Ms D asked HSBC to ensure future letters were also sent to her. 
HSBC responded at the end of November 2019. It issued a response to Ms D and 
apologised that the two letters sent in September 2019 were sent only to Mr D. 
Ms D complained to this service in February 2020. She said she had only just become aware 
of the money paid into her account in error. She complained that she didnt get the two 
letters sent to her former husband in September 2019. Ms D said only she uses the joint 
bank account. So when the letters sent in September 2019 were received by her former 
husband, he didnt think he needed to take any action. She said shes facing possible legal 
action, which she says could have been avoided if the letters had also been sent to her. Ms 
D said she wants copies of the correspondence sent to her former husband and wants future 
letters to be sent to her address.  
When our investigator contacted HSBC, it said its not possible to have more than one 
correspondence address attached to an account. HSBC said Ms Ds address is registered 
on file so correspondence for the joint account could be sent to either Mr D or Ms Ds 
address, but not to both. HSBC acknowledged it should have addressed the letters to both 
parties and offered compensation of £100. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said theres no dispute that the 
correspondence regarding the joint account was sent to only Mr D, and is still being sent to 
his address. But only one address can be attached to the account and all correspondence 
will be sent to that address. Our investigator also said Ms D was made aware of the contents 
of the two letters sent in September 2019 when she raised the issue with HSBC. So this 
meant Ms D had three months to act before the matter was taken to court. 
Our investigator said HSBC has acknowledged the letters sent to Mr D should have been 
addressed to both parties and it has now offered £100 for this error, which is a fair outcome. 
Our investigator also told Ms D that if she wants to make a complaint about the 
correspondence address on her mortgage account, then she would need to raise this as a 
new complaint, as HSBC hasnt had an opportunity to respond to this. 
Ms D responded and said her complaint is about all accounts she holds with HSBC, 
including her mortgage account. She said it should not be possible for correspondence 
about her accounts to go to her former husband without her permission. She said her former 
husband has never asked for the registered address to be changed to his address. Ms D 
said she was not aware of the contents of the letters sent in September 2019 and is still 
waiting to get a copy of these letters. She said she acted immediately in February 2020 
when she became aware of possible legal proceedings. Ms D said this matter has caused 
her a great deal of stress and £100 compensation, as well as no change in the registered 
address for her accounts, is not good enough. 
As Ms D didnt agree with what our investigator said, this complaint has come to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons, and Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ill start by saying that although Mr D and Ms D are no longer in a relationship and are not 
living together, they are both responsible for the joint bank account, for as long as it remains 
in both their names. It may well be the case that the arrangement between Mr D and Ms D is 
that only Ms D uses the account, but it is still a joint account. And HSBC is allowed to deal 
with it as such. 
HSBC has said its not possible to have more than one correspondence address attached to 
an account. And this can be either Mr D or Ms Ms address  both addresses are registered 
with HSBC. I dont intend to tell HSBC to act otherwise in relation to how it manages joint 
accounts. So I dont think it needs to send correspondence to both addresses. 
When HSBC sent the letters in September, just to Mr Ds address, it was because Mr Ds 
address is listed as the sole correspondence address. So HSBC didnt make an error when it 
contacted only Mr D  he is one of the two account holders. 
Its understandable that Ms D would want all correspondence to be sent to her, as she said 
only she uses the account. Ms Ds address is also registered with HSBC, and so it should be 
a relatively straightforward process to have the correspondence address changed to her 
address. But there is a process to go through. So I dont intend to order HSBC to make 
changes to the correspondence address without Mr D and Ms D going through whatever the 
usual process is. HSBC needs to be allowed to carry out its own checks to ensure any 
changes it makes to its records are correct.  
Having said that, I can see HSBC didnt address this point when it responded to Ms Ds 
complaint in November 2019. And it should have done, as it was raised as a complaint point. 
It dealt only with the complaint about the letters sent in September 2019 not also being 
addressed to Ms D. I think HSBC should have responded and provided Ms D with advice about what steps she and Mr D would need to take to change the correspondence address. 
So I think HSBC caused a delay to Ms D taking steps to change the address. 
HSBC has acknowledged that it made an error in not addressing the letters to both Mr D and 
Ms D. When this service contacted it after Ms D made the complaint, it offered £100 for the 
inconvenience caused. I dont intend to ask it to increase this amount as I think its enough 
for both the inconvenience and for the delays caused. 
Ms D has asked to be sent copies of the September 2019 letters. While I dont think HSBC 
made an error when it sent these only to Mr Ds address, I asked HSBC to forward copies to 
Ms D at her address. HSBC agreed to the letters being sent, but is unable to send them at 
the moment because the current situation means many members of staff are working from 
home. So HSBC has agreed that this service can forward the letters to Ms D. 
Ms D said she brought the complaint to this service because she felt she could have avoided 
having to deal with possible court proceedings in February 2020, and the stress that 
involved, if she had known about the two letters sent in September 2019. From the 
information I have, I can see that when Ms D made her complaint to HSBC in September 
2019, she told it that her son had brought one of the letters home with him. I dont know if Ms 
D read the letter, but certainly I think the information was available to her. And as I dont 
think HSBC made an error in not sending the letters to Ms Ds address, I dont intend to hold 
it responsible for Ms D possibly not seeing the letters. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman