DRN-3324153
The complaint
Mr P complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) handling of his claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P held a home insurance policy with Admiral. He made a claim following a leak at his 
home. The claim was accepted by Admiral and it instructed a loss adjuster to assess the 
damage. Admiral told Mr P that a loss adjuster would attend within two working days of the 
report of the incident, but this didnt happen. So, Mr P raised the first complaint. 
Over the course of the next few weeks, Mr P had cause to complain about the lack of 
communication from Admirals loss adjuster, the initial refusal to permit alternative 
accommodation (AA), the delays during the claims process and the installation and removal 
of dryers to dry out the area.  
Mr P explained that despite his home being difficult to live in due to the leak, Admiral initially 
refused to provide him with AA. But this initial decision was changed, and Admiral provided 
some AA. Mr P complained as he believed he ought to have been allowed AA from the date 
of the incident, but Admiral said that AA could only be paid from when Mr P actually moved 
into the AA and this payment could not be retrospective.
Admiral obtained a report from its own in-house surveyor that concluded that Mr Ps home 
was habitable. Once this information was given to Mr P. Admiral eventually withdrew AA 
from 21 August 2021.
Admiral investigated Mr Ps initial complaints which related to the lack of communication 
from the loss adjuster and whether AA should be paid before it was allowed. For these 
failings, Admiral offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused, which Mr P 
declined to accept. In addition, Admiral had already agreed a disturbance allowance (DA) of 
£10 per person per day. Despite Mr P not accepting the compensation offered, Admiral 
deemed the complaint resolved. 
Following on from this, Mr P had cause to complain about the provision of dryers. He said 
that dryers were initially provided to dry out the floor. But he was concerned that the drying 
out wasnt effective, as there was still flooring that hadnt been fully removed. 
Admiral told Mr P that he could get quotes from his own contractors for the repairs, which Mr 
P did. And Admiral provided a settlement figure, which included Mr P instructing his own 
contractors to conduct the drying out of his property (as he wasnt happy about the drying 
out company that Admiral had used). The settlement figure totalled £11,736.87 less the 
policy excess of £600. Mr P said this was far too low to carry out the repairs needed, as his 
quotes were substantially higher.
In addition, there had been an issue between Mr P and the loss adjuster appointed by 
Admiral over the dryers. Mr P said that the dryers were removed before the floor had been 
fully dried. The loss adjuster said that Mr P had asked for the dryers to be removed unless 
he was given AA. Mr P denied saying this and said that the loss adjuster had been 
untruthful. 
Mr P said there were further delays due to the drying issues. But eventually, Admiral asked 
the loss adjusters to provide more dryers. Mr P again requested AA which was refused. 
Admiral appointed its own in-house surveyor to inspect the property. He reported that the 
scope of works provided by the loss adjusters was in line with what was covered under Mr 
Ps policy. The surveyor was concerned that the costs outlined in Mr Ps quotes were 
inflated. And because of this, the in-house surveyor attended the property to carry out a 
scope of works, to ensure, that any additional damage was considered. The in-house 
surveyor also recommended that no further AA should be provided as the home was 
habitable.   
Admiral later installed more dryers, given Mr Ps complaint that the area wasnt properly 
dried out. But Mr P continued to complain as he was told that there was no cover under the 
terms of his policy for matching items in respect of some kitchen units. Admiral said that Mr 
P (under the scope of works that he had provided, with the quotes he submitted from his 
contractors) had requested that Admiral should replace the undamaged units. Admiral said 
that Mr P wasnt entitled to this under his policy. But offered a 50% contribution towards the 
cost.
Mr P complained to Admiral about the poor service he received during the claims process. 
Admiral didnt issue a final response but did give Mr P his referral rights and he referred a 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Her view 
was that there had been shortfalls in the service that Admiral gave to Mr P. And for those 
shortfalls, which she said caused Mr P considerable distress and inconvenience, she 
recommended that Admiral increase its offer of compensation, to a total of £400. 
Admiral accepted the view, Mr P did not. He said that our investigator had missed the point 
and his complaint was essentially to do with the delays and poor communication from 
Admiral. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
I realise this may be a disappointment to Mr P, but I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr P has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here shouldnt be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.I have considered the information provided to me from both parties and I think that the main 
issues of this complaint are the delays and poor communication. So, Ill focus the decision 
on these two issues.
Mr P said that he felt that the level of communication from Admiral was poor. Often, he 
would contact Admiral and the loss adjuster it appointed and received no response. He 
described that he sent around 45 emails which were not acknowledged. I understand how 
frustrating this couldve been. So, Ive looked at the correspondence that Mr P sent to 
Admiral and the records from Admiral. 
The evidence shows that at times Admiral didnt respond quickly enough to Mr Ps emails. 
And that there were a few occasions, when Mr P didnt get a response from the loss 
adjuster. In addition, based on what Ive read, it seems that Admiral at times found it difficult 
to get a response from the loss adjuster as well. So, I do think there was a poor level of 
communication, at times, from Admiral to Mr P. 
Ive next considered the issue of delay. Mr P said that Admiral had caused him unnecessary 
delays which caused severe inconvenience for him and his family. From the evidence, there 
appears to have been delays throughout the claims process, some of which I think were 
avoidable. For instance, as previously mentioned the loss adjuster didnt make contact within 
the timeframe when it shouldve. There appeared to be an issue when no dryers were in Mr 
Ps home, despite it still not being fully dried and the flooring hadnt been removed, which 
inhibited the drying out. 
I asked Admiral about the delays and it accepted that it was responsible for them, rather 
than Mr P being at fault. But I must take into account that during the claims process, delays 
can occur, and I think it is fair and reasonable that Admiral accepted that it was responsible 
for those delays. 
Admiral offered compensation for the distress caused to Mr P of £100. But based on the 
evidence, I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to increase its offer of compensation for 
the distress and upset caused to Mr P. I think compensation of a total of £400 (a further 
£300) would reflect the failings. And I think it will account for the upset and distress that Mr P 
described, as a consequence of the poor customer service he received. 
I understand from Admiral that it has now reached a settlement with Mr P on his claim. And 
that the repairs are now being completed, which I can appreciate is welcome news for Mr P. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I think its fair that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited put matters 
right, as I direct below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay Mr P £400 compensation, for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman