DRN-3438419
The complaint
Mrs R, as director of H, complains about the decision of Ageas Insurance Limited to decline 
Hs business interruption insurance claim made for losses arising from the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of the background to this complaint. H 
operates as a hairdressers and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Ageas. 
In March 2020, H was forced to close due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It contacted Ageas to 
claim for its losses, saying that there had been people with symptoms of COVID-19 at its 
premises. 
Ageas initially accepted the claim but said that the policy would only provide cover for the 
initial days of the premises being closed  up until the government-imposed restrictions 
meant that H would have had to close anyway. And that, as H did not normally operate 
during these few days, there were no losses to cover. 
Subsequently, Ageas has altered its position slightly, saying that it does not consider H has 
demonstrated that there was an occurrence of COVID-19 at its premises. 
H brought its complaint about Ageas decision to our Service, but our Investigator felt that 
Ageas had correctly applied Hs policy to the circumstances of the claim. Ultimately, whilst 
he was sympathetic to the position H found itself in, he wasnt satisfied that H had shown 
there was most likely an occurrence of COVID-19 at its premises.
Mrs R remained unsatisfied and Hs complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on H, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover H is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy H took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Hs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Hs business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Hs claim. And I think 
Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Hs claim under this area of cover.
Hs policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. The terms of this clause would, in my 
view, include cover for the impact of COVID-19. However, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, it would need to be shown that the interruption of the business was as a result of 
the occurrence of COVID-19 at the premises. 
As with any insurance claim, it is for the claimant to demonstrate that an event covered by 
the policy has happened. So, it is for H to demonstrate that there was an occurrence of 
COVID-19 at its premises. 
I appreciate that this is no easy thing. In March 2020, widespread testing was not available 
for example. So, unless someone was admitted to hospital, it isnt likely a positive test result 
showing someone had COVID-19 would be available. But whilst I recognise the difficulties 
this poses, it does not alter the fact that it is for H to demonstrate it has a valid claim. 
H has been able to provide some evidence to try and show it had at least one occurrence of 
COVID-19 at its premises. There were a number of individuals who apparently demonstrated 
symptoms of illness in mid-March 2020, who H has said would have been at its premises. H 
was concerned enough to complete RIDDOR reports for a number of its staff, and has said 
they then isolated at home. H also contacted its broker around this time to discuss potential 
cover. So, it seems evident that H, and its directors, believed that some of its staff were 
unwell with COVID-19. 
But it is not whether H was concerned there was COVID-19 at the premises that is the key 
question. Hs belief at the time is not determinative of there actually being COVID-19 at the 
premises. And I am mindful that as well as COVID-19, other diseases continued to be 
present in the community. So, I need to consider whether H has demonstrated that it was 
actually more likely to have been COVID-19, rather than another illness, that these 
individuals were suffering with. 
H has said that at least some of these individuals contacted NHS 111. Full details of this 
cannot be provided now, so I am unable to determine what was discussed. I am aware 
though that NHS 111 were taking a cautionary approach and advised many people who 
ultimately didnt have COVID-19 to self-isolate. 
H has also provided copies of text messages apparently sent by a couple of members of 
staff regarding their illness in March 2020. One of these individuals included some 
comments about their symptoms saying they were coughing and had a high temperature. 
I do appreciate Mrs Rs comments that these are two of the main symptoms of COVID-19. 
However, they are also symptoms of a number of other illnesses  such as flu. The 
messages do not describe the cough as being continuous. And does not describe any of the 
other symptoms of COVID-19 that are more specific to that disease. So it isnt clear that they 
most likely had COVID-19 rather than some other illness.It is not a requirement of the policy that the individuals have certain symptoms. But it is 
necessary for H to demonstrate that it is most likely that there was an occurrence of a 
relevant disease at its premises; in this case COVID-19. And the evidence available does 
not persuade me that H has demonstrated this. So, I cant fairly say that Ageas acted 
inappropriately by ultimately not meeting Hs claim.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Ageas should have met Hs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mrs R, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman