DRN-4413147
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to pay him some pension 
benefits in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr L has been assisted in making his withdrawal request, and in presenting his complaint, by 
his financial advisor. But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all our 
communication as having been with, and from, Mr L himself.
Mr L holds pension savings with Aviva. In October 2022 Mr L requested the payment of 
£20,000 in the form of a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as 
tax free cash). That request was received by Aviva on 4 October and it immediately sold 
sufficient pension investments to provide the cash payment.
The sales of the pension investments completed on 10 October. And Aviva says it would 
have expected to complete the payment to Mr L two days later on 12 October. But Aviva 
encountered some systems errors that prevented the payment being made. Following 
extensive chasing by Mr L and his financial advisor (that I will address in more detail later in 
this decision) Aviva was able to make the payment to Mr L on 19 October.
Mr L complained to Aviva about the delay. Aviva accepted that it had taken too long to make 
the payment and that the information it had provided to Mr L about the delay had been 
insufficient. So it offered Mr L £300 for the inconvenience hed been caused. Aviva also said 
it would pay Mr L interest, at a rate of 1% over base rate, for the period of the delay. Mr L 
didnt accept Avivas offer and brought his complaint to us.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
compensation Aviva had offered for Mr Ls inconvenience was fair. But he thought that the 
interest should have been calculated using a rate of 8% instead.
Aviva accepted the investigators recommendations and paid the compensation to Mr L. But 
Mr L didnt accept the assessment. He said that he had needed to deal with the matter whilst 
on a family holiday. And that he had needed to borrow money during that holiday from his 
wife and adult children to ensure sufficient funds remained in his bank account for any 
unexpected transactions. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr L and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Aviva accepts that it failed to treat Mr L fairly. I have looked at Avivas assessment of when 
the payment should have been made and I think it reflects a reasonable estimate of what 
should have happened. It is usual for there to be a short time after an instruction is received 
to allow the settlement of any investments that need to be sold. And an additional period of 
time to allow the payment to be made to the consumer. So I think it reasonable to conclude 
that Mr L should have been paid his PCLS by 12 October.
But Mr L wasnt paid his PCLS until 19 October  a delay of seven days. Aviva has now paid 
Mr L interest to reflect the period of time he was without that money at our normal rate of 8% 
simple. I think that is a fair amount of interest compensation to be paid.
So what I now need to decide in this decision is what a fair amount of compensation would 
be to reflect the inconvenience that Mr L has been caused. In order to do that I need to 
consider in a little more detail what happened with the payment, and the impacts those 
delays had on Mr L. But in my analysis below I will not make specific reference to everything 
that happened. I want to reassure Mr L that I have carefully read, and listened to, all the 
evidence that we have received, and have considered it when reaching my decision. But, in 
line with the informal nature of this service, I think it appropriate to only highlight what 
I consider to be the major events.
Aviva gave Mr L and his financial advisor conflicting information about when the payment 
would be made. I think it was reasonable for Mr L to expect the payment to have completed 
by 12 October at the latest, and that was the initial indication that he was given once Aviva 
had received and processed his instruction. But it doesnt seem that Aviva made any 
proactive contact with Mr L when it experienced problems making the payment. It was only 
when Mr L made contact on 17 October that the problems were highlighted.
Aviva didnt seem to have any confidence in when it would be able to resolve its systems 
problems so it offered an alternative solution to Mr L by way of what it called pre-funding. 
Essentially it appears that Aviva would underwrite and pay the PCLS that Mr L had 
requested, recovering the payment from Mr Ls pension savings when it was able to do so. 
But initially Aviva failed to make Mr L aware that it would require an undertaking from him to 
that effect, and that there was a risk the payment might be duplicated.
It is disappointing that Aviva didnt initially set out in sufficient detail how its pre-funding 
arrangement would work. But I cant say that the undertaking it requested from Mr L was 
unreasonable. It was essentially providing him with monies from its own funds, that it would 
need to legally recoup at a later date. And although Aviva made Mr L aware that the 
payment might be duplicated it seems to have a relatively well practiced and robust process 
to reverse any duplicated payment. But ultimately Aviva was able to pay Mr Ls PCLS through its normal methods, not requiring 
the use of any pre-funding agreement. So although I am conscious that the discussions 
about the pre-funding might have caused some limited additional inconvenience to Mr L, 
they dont make me think any compensation for inconvenience should be materially 
increased.
Whilst the delays were happening Mr L was on holiday with his family. And he tells us that 
he needed to ask his wife and adult children who were travelling with him to pay for their 
expenditure on that holiday given the delayed payment by Aviva. He has sent us an extract 
from his bank statement to show he made no payments abroad so he could ensure sufficient 
funds remained in his bank account for any regular direct debits or standing orders to be 
paid.
I can understand how distressing the disruption to the holiday might have been for Mr L. But 
that wasnt something he discussed with Aviva at the time, nor did he tell Aviva how urgent 
the payment was and the mitigation steps he needed to take. In fact those steps were only 
something that Mr L told us about almost a year after he first made his complaint. So whilst 
I dont dismiss the inconvenience he faced Im not persuaded that it amounts to more than 
that assessed by our investigator.
Our investigator asked Aviva to make the payment of £300 it had offered for Mr Ls 
inconvenience. Having thought carefully about the circumstances I have laid out above, and 
considering the awards that I would generally make for compensation of this nature, I agree 
with the conclusions our investigator reached. So I too think a payment of £300 is fair and 
reasonable to reflect the inconvenience Mr L was caused.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr L. Aviva did delay the payment it 
needed to make by seven days. And those delays occurred at a time he should have been 
enjoying a family holiday. But on balance I think the compensation recommended by our 
investigator, and already paid by Aviva, is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
I think the compensation Aviva has already paid to Mr L is a fair and reasonable settlement 
of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman