DRN-2894175
The complaint 
Miss A has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account, called a Platinum account. 
Miss A paid a monthly fee for the Platinum account and NatWest provided several potential 
benefits in return. She thinks it should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
What happened
Miss A has banked with NatWest for quite a long time. NatWest has looked at its records for
her has told us that:
in March 2005, it sold her a packaged account called an Advantage Gold account, for 
which it charged a monthly fee,
in May 2005, Miss A switched to a fee-free account,
in May 2015, it sold the Platinum account to Miss A and started to charge a monthly 
fee again, 
in March 2021, Miss A switched back to a fee-free account. 
This account history is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate.
When Miss A originally complained to NatWest, she said it had mis-sold her both the 
Advantage Gold and the Platinum accounts. NatWest accepted it had mis-sold her the 
Advantage Gold account and paid her what seems to have been fair compensation. 
However, NatWest didnt agree that it had mis-sold Miss A the Platinum account. 
This complaint is now only about the Platinum account. One of our adjudicators has already 
looked into it and didnt think that NatWest had acted unfairly. The adjudicator didnt 
recommend that NatWest should give Miss A any money back. Miss A didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into
everything that Miss A and NatWest have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
In 2015, NatWest, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts, like
the Platinum account, in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever method NatWest used for Miss A, I would have expected it give her a choice and 
tell her about Platinum accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised 
sale, I would also have expected it to check her circumstances to see if she needed the 
benefits which the Platinum account could provide.
Miss A has told us that NatWest sold her the Platinum account over the phone and that it 
gave her advice, although she has also said that NatWest didnt analyse the Platinum 
account to see if it was suitable for her needs. 
NatWest seems to have accepted that it sold the Platinum account over the phone but has 
said that it did so on an information-only basis. There doesnt seem to be any recording of 
the phone call, which isnt surprising after more than six years have passed, so I cant tell for 
sure what happened. But in 2015, NatWest didnt usually give personal advice when it sold 
packaged bank accounts, and I havent seen sufficiently convincing evidence for me to think 
it changed its usual practice for Miss A. So, I have considered this complaint as being about 
an information-only sale.
As Miss A had held a fee-free account for around ten years before NatWest sold her the 
Platinum account and I havent seen anything to suggest it told her she couldnt keep that 
account, Im satisfied that NatWest allowed her a choice. However, the main point of Miss 
As complaint is that she thinks NatWest misled her that buying the Platinum account would 
improve her credit score. Shes told us that NatWest sold her the Platinum account on the 
premise that it would improve (her) credit rating to help (her) with a future mortgage 
application. Shes added that she now believe this was wrong and that the type of account 
(she holds) has no direct correlation with (her) credit score.
In 2015, the benefits of the Platinum account included insurance for travel and mobile 
phone, use of a car breakdown service and discounts on days out at some tourist 
attractions. Miss A has also complained that NatWest didnt explicitly explain these benefits 
to her and didnt tell her that the travel insurance policy which came with Platinum account 
had exclusions which meant that she may not have been covered if she had a pre-existing 
medical condition. Shes also said that NatWest didnt tell her she had to register her mobile 
phone for the insurance cover and has explained that she thinks she may have been 
ineligible for some, if not all of the benefits which came with the Platinum account.
NatWest has told us that it provided Miss A with all the information she needed to make a 
choice about the Platinum account. But before considering what may have happened during 
the phone call, with respect to Miss As point about her credit score, I would like to confirm 
that her present belief is correct. The type of current account a person holds gives very little 
indication of his or her credit worthiness and its extremely unlikely that buying the Platinum 
account would have improved Miss As credit score. So, if NatWest told her the opposite, it 
would have been misleading. 
In explaining why NatWest thinks it treated Miss A fairly, it has sent us a copy of a form 
which it appears to have sent to her shortly after the phone call. The form gave a summary 
of the main benefits of the account and drew Miss As attention to the main exclusions and 
limitations which affected some of them. For example, with respect to the travel insurance, it 
said If you have or think you may have a pre-existing medical condition and you would like 
to extend your cover to include this, please ensure you call for screening. Otherwise. you 
may not be covered. Amongst other things, it also said that only two claims per year would 
be allowed under the mobile phone insurance and five callouts per year under the car 
breakdown service. The form also referred Miss A to other, more detailed, documents 
including some about the insurance policies which it said she should read. I understand that 
it sent her these documents along with the form. A later paragraph on the form said: 
 You should now be aware of all the key exclusions and limitations  are you happy to 
proceed?
and: 
 Please confirm the key exclusion and eligibility criteria above have been explained 
and you are happy to open the account. 
Miss A has signed and dated the form just below this statement. 
Neither the form, nor any of the other documents to which it referred, suggested that buying 
the Platinum account would improve a customers credit score. To me, it would have been 
rather odd for NatWest to make such a potentially important (though incorrect) statement 
during the phone call with Miss A and then ignore it in all the follow-up information it sent 
shortly afterwards. I fully accept that Miss A is doing her best to remember what happened 
during the phone call in 2015, but I doubt NatWest misled her about her credit score in the 
way she has described, as this would have contradicted all the other information it sent her.
Similarly, from the information on the form, Im satisfied that NatWest told Miss A about the 
benefits of the Platinum account and drew her attention to the main exclusions and 
limitations. Furthermore, I havent seen anything to show me that Miss A was adversely 
affected by any of these exclusion and limitations. 
The main eligibly rules affecting the account and its benefits were that customers should live 
in the UK and be less than a certain age. Miss A seems to have met these criteria and Im 
satisfied that she was eligible to use the benefits of the Platinum account if a need had 
arisen. 
Turning to Miss As comment that NatWest didnt tell her she had to register her mobile 
phone for the insurance cover, this is not strictly correct. NatWest recommended that 
customers should register their phones as it would make any claims easier to handle. But, 
registration wasnt essential. NatWest set this out for Miss A in one of the insurance 
documents I mentioned earlier, which said:
We strongly recommend that you register your phone as soon as possible. If the 
phone has not been registered before a claim is made, registration will need to be 
carried out at that time. Its simple to register  do this by visiting (website address) or 
calling (phone number).
Even if Miss A didnt see this information, I dont think there was any significant failure on 
NatWests part with respect to insurance for Miss As mobile phone. It seems she could still 
have claimed, even without registering her phone. 
Miss A has also told us that she didnt own a car in 2015 and so had no need for a car 
breakdown service. I accept this, but the Platinum account came as a package which 
couldnt be adjusted for precise individual needs; so, this was something for Miss A to 
consider for herself. Shes also mentioned that she has never made any claims on any of the 
insurance policies. Again, I accept this, but as Im satisfied that she could have claimed if the 
need had arisen, I dont think the absence of any claim shows any failing by NatWest.
Miss A has also said that she thinks NatWest should have called her periodically to check if 
she still wanted the Platinum account. The Financial Conduct Authority has told NatWest, 
and other banks which provide packaged accounts, to write to customers annually to remind them about the cost and benefits (specifically, the insurance benefits) of the accounts they 
hold. But, there is no requirement on NatWest to ring Miss A in the way she has suggested. 
Im satisfied that NatWest sent the appropriate letters, which are often called Annual 
eligibility statements to Miss A and met its obligation to keep her up to date. I dont think the 
absence of any phone calls points to a significant failing by NatWest.
Im satisfied that NatWest told Miss A about the monthly fees for the account as I dont think 
it could have presented the benefits as free, and they appeared on the form I mentioned 
earlier. So, as I havent found any significant failings by NatWest, I dont think it mis-sold the 
Platinum account to Miss A. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss As complaint that National
Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold the Platinum account to her. I am not going to tell it to give
her any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman