DRN-3187075
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) for issues surrounding a large 
unexpected payment being taken from their account. They want Lloyds to pay them 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience.  
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W held a joint account with Lloyds. 
In early July 2021, Mrs W and Mr Ws energy provider made an error with their bill. This 
resulted in the energy provider taking a much higher amount than normal (£1062.77) from 
Mrs W and Mr W by their direct debit.
Mr W was in contact with the energy provider and they were in the process of arranging a 
refund of this payment. This was due to take around 2 weeks. 
Mr W then contacted Lloyds and issued an indemnity claim under the direct debit guarantee. 
Lloyds wrote to Mrs W and Mr W on 16 July 2021, advising that the payment had been 
returned to them. Lloyds explained that if the energy provider provided evidence of the debt 
then the payment could be taken back. The letter stated that Lloyds would let them know in 
writing if this was going to happen. The payment was credited back to their account that day. 
The energy provider then responded to Lloyds and sent evidence of a bill to Mr and Mrs W, 
matching the payment it had claimed. 
On 22 July 2021, Lloyds reclaimed the payment. It did not give Mr and Mrs W advance 
notice in writing of this.
Mr W spoke with his energy provider again and was assured that if a further indemnity claim 
was made then the energy provider would not resist it. 
Mr W contacted Lloyds and requested a further indemnity claim. This was requested and 
denied as a duplicate claim. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds. They felt that Lloyds had failed to protect their account 
from the request for funds, and that Lloyds had not acted in line with its promises to them. 
They said that the payment being debited from their account left them in financial hardship 
and they were unable to pay their childs nursery without making further arrangements. 
Lloyds sent its final response on 24 July 2021. It acknowledged that it had provided a poor 
service through indicating that advance warning would be given for the payment being 
reclaimed, and also that it had not advised Mr and Mrs W that a second indemnity claim 
could not be made. Lloyds explained that its actions under the direct debit indemnity were 
correct, however. It offered them £100 compensation for their inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs W were not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and recommended upholding the complaint. He 
agreed that the business had mismanaged their expectations by saying that it would give 
notice of the payment being re-debited, and for not making clear that a second claim would 
fail. He acknowledged, however, that these issues had impacted on Mr and Mrs Ws ability 
to plan their finances but had not otherwise affected their financial position. He 
recommended that Lloyds increase its offer of compensation to £200. 
Lloyds accepted that view and increased its offer. 
Mr and Mrs W did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs W were upset and worried. The sum taken was substantial and 
incorrect and I am pleased to learn that the overcharged amount has been refunded to them. 
I can also see why Mr and Mrs W would have expected more notice of the payment being 
taken back, based upon the letter they received from Lloyds, and so the payment being 
taken back suddenly and without notice could have caused them difficulties. 
I have borne in mind, however, that the majority of Mr and Mrs Ws distress and 
inconvenience in this matter flows from the energy providers incorrect calculation of their 
bill, and its initial resistance of the indemnity claim, rather than the actions of the bank. 
The bank was operating the direct debit guarantee which is limited in its scope. The banks 
role was not to determine the disputed payment, but to request it back, and it did this. As our 
investigator explained, the practical steps the bank took were correct and, once the energy 
provider resisted the indemnity claim, the bank was correct to re-debit the payment. 
The bank was wrong, however, to give the impression that notice would be given, and that a 
second claim may be made. These actions gave false assurance to Mr and Mrs W that they 
would have time to make arrangements, or that their claim may succeed. 
I agree that these pieces of information being incorrect did cause some distress and 
inconvenience, and potentially added to the urgency of Mr and Mrs W rearranging their 
finances to make their payments, but it did not change their material finances. 
Putting things right
I therefore agree that some compensation is due, but I do not agree that the banks error 
caused Mr and Mrs W hardship. I note that they have said that they were unable to make 
their nursery payment and they think that they ought to be compensated for this. 
It appears from the statements provided that they were able to make their payments as 
normal, but any disruption they experienced by the absences of funds was caused by the 
energy providers incorrect actions, rather than by Lloyds subsequent actions. 
I agree that the compensation put forward by my colleague is appropriate to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds errors and that this is in line with other awards 
that we would make in similar circumstances. 
Consequently, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, and agree with the investigators view that Lloyds Bank PLC ought to pay £200 compensation to reflect its failings. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
PLC to pay to Mrs W and Mr W £200 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman