DRN-3638871
The complaint
Mr D complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Ald Automotive 
Limited (AA) ended.
What happened
Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with AA. At the end of the 
agreement the car was inspected, and AA sent Mr D an invoice for damage charges.
Mr D disputed the charges and complained to AA. He said he believed the damage was 
within fair wear and tear for the age and mileage of the car.
In response AA said the charges remained payable because the damage exceeded the fair 
wear and tear guidelines.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the charge for the nearside front door should 
be removed.
AA didnt agree. It said the dent in the door exceeded 10mm and was therefore chargeable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr D must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. Having done so, and having had 
regard to the BVLRA guidelines, Im in agreement with the investigator that the charges have 
been fairly applied with the exception of the charge for the dent in the nearside front door.
Ive taken what AA has said about the dent into account and Ive looked at the area which it 
has highlighted on the photo. 
I agree that theres a dent in the door. The BVLRA guidance states that dents should be no 
greater than 15mm. Ive looked at the photos which include the measuring tool. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think the dent exceeds 15mm. This is because the ruler/white square 
(which is 10mm) in phot number 30 looks like it would cover all of the dent. 
With regard to AAs comments, I dont agree that there is visible distortion throughout the 
highlighted area. Im of the opinion that the dent is less than 15mm. In accordance with the 
guidelines, this isnt chargeable damage.
Putting things right
To put things right, AA should remove the charges for the dent in the door.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Ald Automotive Limited must remove the 
charge for the dent in the nearside front door.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman