DRN-3965075
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc blocked and closed both his personal and business 
current accounts and didnt then pay him the remaining funds.
What happened
Mr P had accounts with TSB, including a business and personal current account.
On 9 July 2022, TSB blocked Mr Ps business account while it carried out a review. In 
August 2022, it also blocked his personal account. TSB contacted Mr P asking him for 
information about some of the payments into the account. Mr P provided information about 
the transactions  but TSB required further information from him. After some back and forth 
correspondence, TSB decided to close Mr Ps accounts immediately. And at the same time, 
it withheld the funds that remained in Mr Ps business account.
In the meantime, Mr P had complained to TSB. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and decided that what TSB had done was fair.
Mr P didnt agree.
The complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB, like all financial businesses, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements. These 
mean that TSB may need to review an account at any time, and without giving reasons. The 
terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ps accounts also allow TSB to contact him to 
request documents or information from him. Looking at everything that happened, Im 
satisfied TSB was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr 
Ps accounts.
TSB then decided to close Mr Ps account. The terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ps 
account said that TSB could close Mr Ps account by giving two months notice. In some 
circumstances it could close the account immediately. Here TSB closed the account 
immediately. TSB doesnt have to share its reasons with Mr P and nor would it be 
appropriate for me to tell TSB to share those reasons. But based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied TSB had sufficient grounds to close the account immediately  and that this was 
fair.
Finally, Ive considered TSBs decision to withhold the remaining funds in the business 
account. At the point TSB blocked the business account, it had a balance of £10,218.85.  I 
note Mr P appealed this decision, and TSB wrote to Mr P on 27 January 2023 explaining that 
it is unable to reverse this decision. Mr P wants these funds returned to him.
I note that TSB has asked Mr P to provide information showing his entitlement to these 
funds. Im satisfied this is something TSB is entitled to do in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations, and the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ps account. I dont find it unfair of 
TSB to have requested this information from Mr P to show he was entitled to these funds.
But TSB hasnt found the information Mr P has provided satisfactory. And having looked at 
everything both TSB and Mr P has provided, Im satisfied this was fair. I cant say TSB has 
done anything wrong in withholding these funds and Im satisfied its complying with its 
obligations.
Ive considered Mr Ps further comments. Hes highlighted the impact this has had on his 
business. In particular, not having access to his account has affected his relationship with his 
suppliers. He also claims he had to sell his remaining stock at cheap prices to make ends 
meet. I have some sympathy with Mr P and dont doubt hes had a difficult time. But Ive 
concluded that TSB was entitled to take the actions it did, and so this isnt something Im 
going to award compensation for.
It follows that I dont uphold the complaint and Im not telling TSB to do anything further to 
put things right.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman