DRN-4215352
The complaint
Mr D complains that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, failed to provide him with 
sufficient information about the regulatory requirement to take advice before he could 
transfer his pension benefits to an alternative provider.
What happened
Mr D held pension savings with Aegon. Mr D has been resident overseas for a number of 
years, and took some financial advice regarding pension savings he held in the UK from a 
financial advisor in his home country. The advisor recommended that Mr D should 
consolidate his pension savings by transferring his individual pension plans (I understand he 
had several UK based pension plans at that time) into a Qualifying Recognised Overseas 
Pension Scheme (QROPS) that he held in his home country.
Mr D was approaching his 75th birthday. He says that the transfers of his other pension plans 
ran smoothly. But he says that due to the poor information provided by Aegon he was unable 
to complete the transfer of the pension savings he held with that firm into the QROPS. So he 
says he was forced to take a UK based annuity. And although that annuity was provided on 
an enhanced basis due to some problems Mr D faces with his health, he says it is unlikely 
that an annuity will provide him with value for money.
The pension savings that Mr D held with Aegon provided him with a guaranteed annuity rate 
when he took his benefits. In March 2022 Aegon told Mr D that the guarantee meant that the 
annuity it was offering was more than double that he could receive on the open market. And, 
since Mr Ds pension savings were valued at more than £30,000, the relevant legislation 
required Aegon to ensure that Mr D had taken regulated advice before giving up that 
guarantee.
Aegon says that it regularly explained to Mr D over the years that he held guaranteed 
benefits. And it says that, when he asked to transfer his pension benefits, it provided him 
with a link to information provided by the UK Government about the need to take regulated 
advice. It says that it was unable, under the relevant legislation, to accept confirmation that 
Mr D had instead received advice from a financial advisor in his home country. So it wasnt 
able to transfer Mr Ds pension savings to the QROPS.
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that Aegon 
had acted in line with its regulatory responsibilities. And she thought that the information 
Aegon had given to Mr D about the need to take regulated advice had been clear and 
sufficient. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr D and by Aegon. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The requirement to take regulated advice from a authorised independent adviser before 
transferring safeguarded benefits worth more than £30,000 is not set by Aegon. It is a 
requirement set out in section 48 of the 2015 Pension Schemes Act. And that act further 
defines an authorised independent adviser as being a person who has permission under 
Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, or resulting from any other provision 
of that Act, to carry on a regulated activity specified in regulations made by the Secretary of 
State. So Aegon has no latitude in how that requirement is implemented. It simply needs to 
ensure that any affected transfers are supported by advice of the nature Ive set out above.
It seems to me that Mr D generally accepts that Aegon has simply followed the regulations 
here. But it appears that he is unhappy with the way Aegon has communicated that 
requirement to him at the time of his transfer and over the previous years. So Ive looked 
carefully at what Aegon has told Mr D about his pension benefits.
I think it is likely that Mr D might not have fully appreciated the nature of the pension benefits 
that he held with Aegon. I can see that his local financial advisor wrote to Aegon in 
March 2022 asking for information about Mr Ds pension plan. In that request the advisor 
incorrectly said, We are of the understanding that this pension plan does not include any 
safeguarded benefits such as guaranteed annuity rates (GAR) and thus, you do not require 
the member to receive UK FCA advice as a pre-requisite to transfer the funds. But I do think 
that statement also shows that Mr D and his advisor might have been aware that regulated 
advice was required in some circumstances.
Aegon has sent us copies of a number of letters that it has sent to Mr D about his pension 
savings over the years. Generally those letters make it clear that his pension savings would 
benefit at retirement, subject to some conditions, from a guaranteed annuity rate. And that 
guarantee would be lost if the pension savings were transferred to another provider. But 
some of the information that Aegon sent to Mr D went further, and discussed the regulated 
advice that he might need to take.
I have seen a letter Aegon sent to Mr D in March 2017 as he was approaching the retirement 
age he had set. That letter provided him with a link to some information published by the 
government about the requirement to take advice. And it specifically told Mr D that the 
requirement applied to his pension savings. And similar information was provided to Mr D 
when he requested a transfer quotation in March 2022.In the alternative I accept that some of the letters Aegon sent to Mr D were not as specific 
about the need for him to take regulated advice. I dont think any of them specifically told him 
that he wouldnt need to take advice. But at times Aegon didnt explain in any detail that 
advice would be required.
But Im not persuaded that was unreasonable. In many cases similar to this Aegons 
customers would simply use their pension savings to purchase retirement benefits using the 
guarantee they incorporated. Providing information about taking regulated advice  when 
such advice would not be needed if the pension savings were simply being used to purchase 
an annuity  would be confusing for many customers. I think it reasonable that Aegon only 
provided detailed information about the advice requirement once it had been made aware 
that a consumer was considering transferring their pension savings to an alternative 
scheme.
I appreciate that Mr D took financial advice from a local advisor before contacting Aegon. 
And that he says that he had taken regulated advice in the UK in previous years, but found 
that advice to be of poor quality. But neither of those steps were sufficient for Aegon to be 
satisfied that it would meet its regulatory responsibilities of ensuring appropriate regulated 
advice had been taken by Mr D. By failing to ensure advice was taken Aegon would be 
opening itself and its staff to the risk of civil penalties being applied.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D. I understand that he had other 
pension benefits that transferred to his QROPS in a straightforward manner  although 
I assume those pension savings did not comprise safeguarded benefits. But I dont think that 
Aegon had any choice but to insist that Mr D took appropriate advice before it could agree to 
the transfer. And I think that Aegon communicated those requirements appropriately, both 
during the time that Mr D held his pension plan, and when he asked to transfer his pension 
benefits to the QROPS.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Equitable Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman