DRN-4263081
The complaint
Mr M complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (Legal and General) didnt 
notify him of changes on the market which led to a fall in the value of his investment. He 
says management fees were taken but Legal and General failed to update him and this has 
had a huge impact both financially and on his wellbeing. He asks to be compensated.
What happened
Mr M holds a stakeholder pension plan with Legal and General which he took out in October 
2007 with an assumed retirement date in May 2025.
In September 2022, Mr M received a notice from Legal and General to say he could now 
review his annual statements online. He wasnt able to access the system and so contacted 
Legal and General for a statement to be sent out.
In January 2023, Legal and General sent his annual statement by post which showed a fall 
in the fund value of £19,500 on the previous years valuation.
On 14 January 2023, Mr M complained to Legal and General about the management of his 
pension for which management fees had been deducted. He said he hadnt been notified of 
losses, other than one line on the statement. Mr M said he felt incompetence and lack of 
communication meant he couldnt make decisions to stop or limit the loss. He went on to say 
he couldnt sustain such a loss on his pension.
On 18 January 2023, Legal and General issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. It explained how Mr Ms particular pension worked and how global events have 
had an impact. It said the fixed interest fund had been particularly impacted in recent years. 
It explained how interest rates linked to bonds and gilts work in opposite ways to annuity 
rates. It also said if he was unhappy with performance, he could change the funds and noted 
that it would strongly recommend he sought advice.
Mr M responded by email the same day. He said he understood markets change but felt very 
strongly that Legal and General had been poor in its management and by failing to notify him 
of the changes in the market, he wasnt aware so couldnt make any changes to mitigate 
this. Mr M felt Legal and Generals negligence rendered it liable for the loss suffered.
Legal and General responded to explain it couldnt make any changes to funds without Mr 
Ms instructions to do so.
On 21 January Mr M responded by email again empahsising his point that without 
notification he was not in a position to be aware he should seek financial advice. 
On 23 January Legal and General responded to explain its role again and reminded Mr M of 
his right to raise this matter with this service if he remined dissatisfied.
On 15 February 2023 Mr M brought his complaint to this service for investigation.
An investigator looked into things for Mr M, in his view he agreed that in its complaint 
response Legal and General hadnt answered Mr Ms specific complaint point. But he 
explained that complaint handling itself is not regulated and as such this service couldnt 
address that specific issue, but he went onto say in this case he didnt think Legal and 
General had failed in its regulatory role. He went onto explain the role Legal and General 
has as the administrators of the pension scheme but that it had no responsibility to act as a 
monitor of the plan giving rise to providing any warnings or alerts beyond the annual 
statements it issued. As such, and notwithstanding, Mr Ms strength of feeling on the matter 
he couldnt say that Legal and General had acted unfairly and so he didnt ask it to do 
anything further.   
Mr M disagreed. He said he totally refutes the investigators view and finds it biased in favor 
of Legal and General rather than a balanced and fair assessment. He vividly described the 
effect the fall in value has had on his health and wellbeing and now feels he will have work 
indefinitely to secure the funds he needs for his retirement. He asks for an ombudsman 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have independently reached the same view as the investigator. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M  Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Instead, I have concentrated on what I understand to 
be the crux of Mr Ms complaint which is that he felt Legal and General had a responsibility 
to warn or notify him that his fund value was falling. That he says, would have made him 
aware enough to seek financial advice and in not doing so, it was negligent in its duty.
Whilst I can consider complaints about investment performance, in most instances, I would 
need to see evidence that Legal and General had done something wrong and I cant just rely 
on actual or perceived poor performance. Thats because, even if the fund has 
underperformed compared to the rest of the market, we dont usually think this proves the 
fund was mismanaged. Many consumers have seen the value of their pension funds fall over 
the last 18 months given the economic conditions not just across the UK, but wider financial 
markets too. So, to be clear, this isnt just a Legal and General issue, and its something 
many other consumers are having to face at other businesses too.
Firstly, I think its important to say I can understand receiving his September 2022 statement 
and seeing the current value must have been a shock. His pension value had fallen, in his 
view unexpectedly as his previous two statements had seen growth. So, I can understand 
this must be very worrying for him as he approaches his preferred retirement age but what I 
have to consider is if Legal and General acted fairly in its approach and if not what it could 
and should have done differently.
Both Legal and General and our investigator have explained in some detail how the Lifestyle 
option, which applies to Mr Ms Stakeholder pension plan works. Theres not an awful lot I 
can add other than to briefly summarise the management approach taken to this type of 
pension. Stakeholder pensions are subject to pension life styling. This is, in summary, where funds 
gradually move into lower risk funds as the scheme member approaches their selected 
retirement date. But this doesnt remove all risk. The purpose is to reduce the risk of market 
volatility. This is something we see commonly in former workplace (Stakeholder) schemes.
As our investigator explained the fixed interest element of the life styling funds are impacted 
by changes in the interest rate. As interest rates rise, a fall in value is then often seen. But 
importantly at the same time there will typically be an increase in annuity rates. So as has 
been explained, although Mr Ms fund value has fallen its annuity purchasing power may 
appreciate. This is different to a loss that might be incurred in a higher risk fund when 
annuity rates might be falling. So, life styling is a way to act protectively for future annuities. 
Obviously, that would only be beneficial if Mr M were taking a guaranteed income at his 
stated retirement age rather than accessing his monies flexibly. 
Whilst Legal and General will have known about the impact of the markets on the funds 
within Mr Ms stakeholder pension, it isnt regulated to provide advice. Notifying Mr M 
between annual statements could be seen as advice (or implied advice). It also isnt 
regulated to provide Mr M with an ongoing review.
The regulator sets out the timing and content of the regular statements that need to be 
issued to pension investors. Generally, that sort of communication needs to be issued at 
least once a year. Ive looked carefully at the annual statements Legal and General 
provided. All consumers need to ensure they keep an eye on their funds, more so as 
retirement nears. The statements all provide clear color-coded indications of where Mr M is 
in his retirement journey and indicate what considerations he should be making. These 
include making sure the pension plan is meeting his goals and referencing Pension Wise as 
the first point of call. So, Im satisfied Legal and General did provide that sort of information 
to Mr M and it highlighted the warnings that Mr M should review the ongoing suitability of his 
investments, and this can be seen as early as the September 2019 statement. 
Mr M could also have telephoned Legal and General at any time, and I dont doubt they 
would have provided a valuation over the telephone rather than waiting for an annual 
statement. In addition, whilst I appreciate Mr M wasnt able to access Legal and Generals 
online service, had he sought help to do so, he wouldve been able to view his monies at a 
time convenient to him. So, Im afraid I cant say Legal and General have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably nor can I hold it responsible for a fall in value of a pension fund due to the 
current market conditions.
Ultimately it fell to Mr M to monitor his pension investments and seek financial advice as to 
the ongoing suitability of them. Only Mr M can instruct Legal and General to make changes 
to his portfolio if he felt it had become unsuitable for his circumstances. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed and notwithstanding I understand his 
current worry with regard to the fund, Im not able to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 Wendy Steele
Ombudsman