DRN-3147914
The complaint
Miss B complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Miss B as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan Status
21/9/2016 £1,500 24 months £158.86 £3,812.64 Repaid early 
April 2018
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Miss B with the loan and she set out the steps that needed to be taken to put 
things right.
Everyday Loans disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.
In summary, Everyday Loans mainly said that Miss B took out this loan in order to repay 
other debt and she was better off by around £643 each month with its loan. It also said that 
its affordability calculations showed her creditor payments were more than affordable and 
Miss B had an excellent payment history with Everyday Loans, she never missed a payment 
and settled her loan early.
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Miss Bs complaint and having done so, I am 
upholding Miss Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Miss Bs complaint. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere. The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But 
reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking 
about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well 
as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is 
for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit 
history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working out 
if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and 
think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending decision 
shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money back.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Everyday Loans gathered information from Miss B by asking her about her income and 
expenses. It relied on statistical information which indicated what the likely living expenses 
would be for someone in Miss Bs particular circumstances based on national UK averages. 
It also checked Miss Bs credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments 
and credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was satisfied that the 
loan was affordable for Miss B.
I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the comments it has 
made in response to our adjudicators view, but I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair 
lending decision when it provided this loan.
I say this because I dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account Miss Bs credit 
record when thinking about her overall financial situation.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other short-term loans or even an impaired credit record  and these wouldnt necessarily be 
a sufficient reason to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application.
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned when it noted in its affordability 
calculation that Miss B was already committed to paying more than £1,000 just to service her 
existing debt. Given that Everyday Loans understood that her monthly take home pay was 
around £1,259, this meant that Miss B was paying almost four fifths of her net pay to existing 
creditors  mostly for unsecured and payday loans and to credit card providers. I think that 
this was such a significant proportion of Miss Bs monthly income it was a clear warning sign 
that she was already over-reliant on credit and an indication that she was having serious 
money problems. 
And once Everyday Loans made allowance for her other monthly outgoings being around 
35% of her income, which seems reasonable to me, it looked like Miss B would have a 
shortfall of more than £575 each month  bearing out the indications of financial difficulty 
suggested by the information Everyday Loans had gathered. 
Even if Everyday Loans relied on figures that over-estimated Miss Bs expenditure (bearing 
in mind that she was living in her parents house and paying £200 for her board) it looks like 
she still wouldve had little or no spare cash left. 
I think that Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Miss Bs credit file showed that managing 
her debt had got beyond her control and that there was a serious risk that this loan would 
likely be part of that same pattern of borrowing and so increase her overall indebtedness and 
add to her financial difficulties. I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But Everyday Loans didnt have control over this  it paid the money direct to 
Miss B. And I think the scale of her overall debt compared to the lesser value of the loan and 
the extent of her evident reliance on taking out expensive credit would suggest that she 
would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. So I dont think Everyday Loans 
shouldve provided this loan. 
In coming to my decision, I've thought carefully about everything Everyday Loans has said, 
including comments made in response to our adjudicators view, but this doesnt affect my 
decision overall. The fact that Miss B paid the loan early doesnt mean that she was able to 
do so in a sustainable way. And even if she used the loan for debt consolidation, that alone 
isnt enough of a reason for me not to uphold her complaint. She wouldve still needed to pay 
around a third of her take home pay just to service her remaining debt along with this loan. 
I think that this was such a significant proportion of Miss Bs monthly income Everyday 
Loans couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that she would be able to repay its loan in a 
sustainable way over the whole of the 24 months loan term. 
For all the reasons I have explained, I am upholding Miss Bs complaint that she should not 
have been given the loan.
This means that as Miss B has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with she has lost out as a result of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong. I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put 
things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Miss B hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Miss B in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss B to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Miss B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss B received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss B made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss B having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
Whilst its fair that Miss Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any 
negative information recorded on Miss Bs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman