DRN-3404479
The complaint
Mr F complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) has been 
fraudulently accessing his account and removing his funds.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (PD) on this complaint on 10 March 2022 and both parties 
have been given an opportunity to respond. Ive copied the content of that PD below, in 
italics, as the background remains unchanged, and the findings I explained remain relevant. 
Ill then go on to explain whats happened since the PD, and what my final decision is.
Mr F has complained that LCCU has been acting fraudulently in its management of 
his account. He believes it is stealing his money by duplicating transactions and lying 
about when money has been paid in. We dont have a complete list of all the 
transactions Mr F is disputing, but hes said this goes back some six years.
Mr F has highlighted some specific transactions that he says LCCU has interfered with. 
He says he didnt carry out at least some of these as LCCU has instead duplicated his 
legitimate spending so it can steal his money. Some of the highlighted transactions 
appear on his statement as follows:
27 April 2020  a £30 transaction at an ATM, a £40.05 transaction at a 
supermarket, and a further £50 withdrawal at an ATM (which appears on Mr Fs 
statement to be the same ATM as the other £30 transaction)
4 May 2020  two transactions of £30 and £50 at an ATM
5 May 2020  a transaction of £30 at an ATM and a £50 transaction at a Post 
Office in Cambridge
This isnt an exhaustive list, but it represents a sample of the kind of transactions Mr F 
has disputed. Some transactions havent necessarily been described as duplicates by 
Mr F, but instead as suspicious. Hes also said there are lots of excessive balance 
enquiry charges, which suggests LCCU is fraudulently mismanaging his account.
Mr F has said that he thinks someone senior at LCCU must be involved, given 
recorded transaction data would have to be manipulated.
Mr F has also raised concerns over incoming payments. He says the bank has 
given him incorrect information about payments coming into his account, including 
a payment in of £407.14 on 28 April 2020 from his local council. Mr F has said the 
bank took this from his account before trying to then put it back in. He says LCCU 
told him the money hadnt been received but then it was suddenly there. Hes 
explained that when he discussed the inward payment with the council it told him it 
was unlikely the payment would have cleared on 28 April 2020. Mr F believes this 
shows LCCU has been acting inappropriately.
LCCU itself has had very little to say about Mr Fs complaint. Weve been provided 
no records of its contact with Mr F on this matter and so its been unclear what its 
position is, other that it hasnt refunded any of the disputed transactions.
One of our investigators requested specific evidence and information from LCCU. 
But it failed to respond for several months and so she issued findings without 
having had a response and with very little evidence available. It was on that basis 
she upheld Mr Fs complaint. She explained that LCCU had provided no evidence 
to show the disputed transactions were auhtorised. And so she concluded that 
LCCU couldnt fairly hold Mr F responsible for them. She recommended all the 
disputed transactions be refunded.
Mr F accepted the outcome but LCCU still didnt respond and so the case was passed 
to me for review. I then entered into communication with LCCU for a final request for 
evidence and it began to respond.
Since the case has been with me, LCCU has provided electronic records of various 
payments made from Mr Fs account. These records show  among other things  
when a payment was auhtorised, the method of payment, and where the transactions 
took place. I have asked it for this same type of evidence for some specific 
transactions, including those in the list I set out earlier.
Despite giving LCCU ample opportunity to supply this evidence it still hasnt done so. 
And so Im proceeding to issue this provisional decision without it.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint in part. I dont believe LCCU should refund Mr F 
the transactions hes disputed. But I do find LCCUs failure to respond to this 
service within reasonable timeframes warrants a payment of compensation to Mr F. 
Ill explain in more detail below.
The transactions disputed by Mr F
The principle question to be answered here is whether Mr F can be fairly held 
responsible for the transactions hes disputed. The Payment Service Regulations 2017 
broadly state that a customer can only be held responsible for transactions they have 
authorised. And it is for the account holding firm to evidence that transactions have been 
properly authorised, and that there hasnt been a system error, if it is to hold its 
customer responsible for them.
I can understand why the investigator came to the outcome she did. LCCU had, at that 
time, provided nothing in defence of Mr Fs complaint against it. There was little to show 
Mr F had auhtorised the transactions, with the only evidence being account statements. 
But I dont find that the answer given represents a fair and reasonable outcome as it 
doesnt reflect what I consider more likely than not to have happened.
Often when this service considers complaints evidence will be incomplete or missing, 
even when a firm fully cooperates with an investigation and provides all we ask for. 
Where that is the case, we base our findings on the balance of probabilities. That is to 
say what we believe is more likely than not to have happened.
Whilst Mr F has disputed payments on his account, I dont believe the more likely than 
not explanation for those payments is that LCCU has been defrauding him. Mr Fs own 
version of events has not been entirely consistent throughout. It is the case that hes 
sent us statements where hes highlighted transactions that are in dispute. But then 
statements covering the same period have been sent to us at a later date, and the 
transactions in dispute have changed; new transactions are disputed and previously 
highlighted ones are not.
At times Mr F has only described transactions as suspicious, rather than as fraudulent 
or duplicated. Its not entirely clear what he means by that as theres been no context or reason given alongside. And it seems he isnt entirely sure they are transactions he 
didnt auhtorise himself.
Despite the banks lack of evidence, I can see that the majority (if not all) of the 
payments Mr F is disputing are made using his card and the PIN. That is evident from 
the account statements alone, which show the transactions to be a mix of point of sale 
purchases and cash machine withdrawals. LCCU has also provided the electronic 
records of a range of different transactions, showing specific data and information for 
individual payments. Those records confirm the payments as having been properly 
authorised using Mr Fs card and PIN. So Im persuaded Mr Fs card and PIN were 
used for the transactions that appear on his statement and that it was him using them.
Im not persuaded LCCU has somehow fabricated these records. Even if such a thing 
were possible, which Im not persuaded it is, it seems very unlikely such a thing has 
taken place. How or why a member of LCCU staff would go to a significant amount of 
effort to remove small sums from an account, considering the risks attached to doing 
so, is a question that lacks a reasonable answer. It is true that Mr Fs dispute over a 
period of six years could add up to a considerable sum. But the likelihood of an 
unknown person at LCCU being able to achieve this at all, and not be discovered for so 
long, is an incredibly remote prospect.
Ive looked at a number of the specific transactions where Mr F has said the activity has 
been duplicated. But in those examples, its often the case that the transaction amounts 
and/or locations are different. And so its self-evident that those transactions havent 
been duplicated, either fraudulently or as a result of some kind of processing error. All 
the transactions I listed earlier fit this description. So even without the electronic records 
for each specific transaction, I can say Im satisfied the transactions were more likely 
than not authorised by Mr F, rather than them being somehow duplicated or fabricated 
by LCCU.
A possible explanation for Mr Fs not recognising certain payments, or for believing they 
may be duplicates, could come from how they are recorded on his account statement. It 
is the case that transactions wont always have a statement date that matches the date 
the transaction was actually made. Thats particularly relevant  but not limited  to a 
transaction made on a weekend or bank holiday. The entry generally wont appear on a 
statement until the next working day. That can make it appear as though transactions 
have taken place on a different date than they actually did.
At other times it might be that the merchant hasnt actually claimed the payment on the 
same day it is made, and so its processed later. That would also lead to the payment 
appearing on the account statement on a different day to which it was actually made.
Mr F has highlighted several statement entries which appear as charges for excessive 
balance enquiries. Hes said this is further evidence of wrongdoing on the banks part. 
But I dont agree thats the case. Instead, Im satisfied they are legitimate charges 
applied to his account as a result of him carrying out balance enquiries before 
transactions. Those charges are set out in his account terms and conditions. That is the 
far more likely explanation, rather than that LCCU is adding the charges fraudulently in 
an attempt to steal his money.
Mr F has said that payments into his account have been handled in a suspicious 
manner too. Ive set out some of the background as Mr F has described it already, with 
the council payment on 28 April 2020.
Ive considered what Mr F has said here but I cant see anything that would suggest 
inappropriate action on LCCUs part. Its clear the money did credit his account and he 
went on to use those funds. Members of staff wont generally know when a payment is 
going to credit an account; they can only give estimates. Payments can sometimes take 
seconds to clear, or they can take several days. Mr Fs suspicions about this payment seem to arise from what he was told by the council when he queried it. But, if anything, 
it simply seems the money credited his account quicker than they expected it to. I cant 
see that this suggests any wrongdoing by LCCU or its staff.
Whilst LCCU has provided little evidence Im not persuaded it (or particular members of 
its staff) have been defrauding Mr F or mismanaging his account. The more likely 
explanation is that Mr F is mistaken about when he has made transactions.
LCCUs response to Mr Fs complaint
Ive spent considerable time chasing LCCU for a response to this complaint, as did 
our investigator. Reasonable requests have been made for evidence on numerous 
occasions and yet those have either gone unanswered or the responses have been 
incomplete.
I requested specific evidence from LCCU in December 2021, though this request 
differed little from those made by our investigator previously. What was required was 
clearly set out. And whilst LCCU has replied at times, even supplying some evidence, it 
has still failed to provide whats been asked for. Thats despite at least two additional 
attempts to clarify whats needed between December 2021 and February 2022.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; 
and that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account 
of the failure by a party to provide information requested;
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) 
proceed with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any 
material distress or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award 
which he decides to make.
In light of what Ive said its clear LCCU has failed to comply with numerous time limits. 
And this has unnecessarily delayed the resolution of Mr Fs complaint. Even now, hes 
not being given as satisfactory an answer as he might, as LCCU hasnt provided all the 
evidence its been asked for. While Im persuaded the provision of that evidence would 
strengthen the findings Ive already made and provide further clarity, I consider its fair 
and reasonable to proceed with the complaint. I also find that Mr F ought to be paid 
compensation for LCCUs delay and I intend to direct it to pay him £300 in that respect.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint against London Community Credit Union Limited, 
but only to the extent that it should pay him £300 compensation. Im not upholding his 
complaint about the disputed transactions.
LCCU has remained disappointingly silent on this complaint and has provided no response 
to the PD.
Mr F did respond and provided lists of transactions in handwritten and statement form, 
though it look like most of this had already been submitted. He also questioned some 
counter withdrawals.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had the chance to review the complaint again and to consider the further 
correspondence from Mr F. Having done so, Im not departing from the findings set out in my 
PD. I wont repeat all of that detail here, its not necessary to do so as my findings remain the 
same. But I will address the further correspondence from Mr F.
I appreciate the time Mr F has taken to send through more lists of transactions that he either 
outright disputes or says he finds suspicious. But theres nothing within what hes sent me 
that alters my findings. We had the vast majority of the transactions already logged as part of 
the dispute. And so theres nothing for me to take from the further submissions from Mr F 
there. And my reasoning for not upholding his complaint still stands.
Mr F has said that there were counter withdrawals which he disputes and assumes were 
authorised with his signature. This is an area where LCCU has provided persuasive 
evidence. It does have at least some records of withdrawal slips bearing Mr Fs signature. 
And its provided other documentary evidence which bears a matching signature, including a 
loan application form and his request to close his account. That evidence, in line with the 
other circumstances of the case, satisfies me the transactions were authorised. Ive been 
presented with no persuasive evidence or explanation that would lead me to a different 
outcome and Ive no reason to suspect wrongdoing on LCCUs part.
Putting things right
London Community Credit Union Limited should pay Mr F £300 in compensation for the 
reasons set out in my PD. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against London Community Credit Union Limited in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman