DRN-4286575
The complaint
Miss C complains that when she made a motor insurance claim, Zurich Insurance PLC 
would only pay the agreed value of her car and would not pay to have it repaired. 
What happened
In March 2022, Miss C took out a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Zurich. 
The policy offered cover up to an agreed value. In this case, the agreed value was £8,000. 
On 22 October 2022, Miss Cs car was damaged by a third-party while it was parked. 
On 27 October 2022, Miss C was contacted by the third-partys insurers who said their driver 
had accepted fault. The third-party insurer said it would not be economical to repair Miss Cs 
car and offered to pay her the market value for the vehicle. Miss C says the third-party 
insurer said the amount would have been £13,900 or £10,947 if Miss C wanted to keep the 
car. 
Miss C did not accept what the third-party insurer said and so she contacted Zurich. She 
says she wanted Zurich to pursue the third-party insurer on her behalf. However, Zurich also 
decided that it was not economical to repair Miss Cs vehicle. It offered to pay £8,000 to 
settle the claim. If Miss C wanted to keep the car, it said it would pay £6,000. 
Miss C did not accept Zurichs offer. She said her car was repairable. She said the market 
value of her car was £13,900 as set out by the third-party insurer. She had a personalised 
number plate which she said was worth £20,000. Adding that together, Miss C valued her 
car at £33,900. As the cost of repairs was said to be around £16,247+VAT, Miss C said her 
car should be repaired. 
Zurich did not uphold Miss Cs complaint and so she complained to this service. Miss C told 
us that her policy schedule showed that the agreed value and the cost of repairing her 
vehicle could be paid at the same time. Miss C told us that cars like hers had increased in 
value since her policy started and it would be hard for her to find another similar vehicle. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss C did not agree with that 
view and the matter was passed to me to make an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that dealing with all of this has caused Miss C a lot of stress. It is clear 
from reading the file that her car means a great deal to her. Ive considered all the issues 
raised in the complaint very carefully, but Im afraid I havent upheld the complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
First of all, I want to be clear about the remit of this service and explain what we can and 
cannot consider. Looking through the file, I can see Miss C has gone to a lot of effort to 
research tort law, more specifically the tort of negligence. I know that she feels strongly that 
I ought to consider her representations on this point in my decision. 
I know Miss C will be disappointed, but it is not for me to determine whether the third-party 
driver, third-party insurer or Zurich was negligent or tortious in any other way  that would 
ultimately be for a court to decide. My role is to determine what is fair and reasonable after 
taking account of all the circumstances in the complaint. 
In addition to that, and as our investigator said, I cant look at what happened with the third-
party insurer. Thats because when Im considering a complaint, I am bound by the rules that 
apply to this service. These rules are known as the DISP rules and they are available online 
in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. The DISP rules say that I can only consider 
Miss Cs complaint about a financial business if she is a customer of that business. As Miss 
C isnt a customer of the third-party insurer, I cant consider a complaint about that business.
I know Miss C was keen to point out that she didnt want Zurich to settle her claim. Instead, 
she wanted Zurich to pursue the third-party insurer on her behalf. However, when a persons 
vehicle is involved in an accident that isnt their fault, they have a number of choices about 
how to pursue a claim against the at fault party. For example: they could recover the costs 
from the third partys insurer directly (which it looks like Miss C attempted at first); or they 
can make a claim on their own motor insurance policy. 
In this case, I know the essence of Miss Cs dispute is that her car was worth more than the 
agreed value paid by Zurich. As far as I can see, Zurich isnt obliged to pursue the third-party 
insurer on Miss Cs behalf. It is possible that the difference between the agreed value and 
the market value is an uninsured loss. I understand Miss C has legal expenses insurance 
and instructed solicitors to act for her to recover her uninsured losses. 
With that in mind, the issue for me to consider is whether Zurichs actions were fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. The first thing Ive thought about is 
whether it was fair for Zurich to settle Miss Cs claim based on the agreed value of £8,000.  
The terms and conditions that apply to Miss Cs policy say that where her vehicle is deemed 
a total loss and the car is insured on an agreed value basis, the insurer will pay the value 
shown on her valuation certificate. I can see that to determine the agreed valuation, Miss C 
had to send various photographs of her vehicle. And the day after her policy started, a 
valuation certificate was sent to her showing the agreed value of the car was £8,000.  
With all of this in mind, I think it would have been clear to Miss C at the time the policy was 
taken out that the maximum Zurich would pay if her car was a total loss would be £8,000. I 
appreciate that Miss C says her car had increased in value since the policy started, but the 
policy doesnt allow for an increased value to be paid unless it had been agreed in advance. 
Miss C argued that the policy required Zurich to pay the agreed value and repair her vehicle. 
However, I can see the policy says the most Zurich will pay is the agreed valuation. I havent 
seen anything in the policy documentation to suggest Zurich will pay for repairs in addition to 
an agreed valuation.  
Miss C told us that, including the number plate, her car was worth £33,900. She valued the 
number plate at roughly £20,000. But in a situation like this, Miss C would be able to retain 
her number plate and registration, so I dont think she has lost the value of that in any event. 
I know Miss C feels very strongly about her complaint and she wants to keep her car and 
have it repaired. She feels aggrieved that the settlement offered by Zurich will not cover the 
cost of the repairs. I do appreciate that Miss Cs car means an awful lot to her, but I cant say 
that Zurich did anything wrong when it said it would base its settlement on the agreed value 
of £8,000. As the quote to repair the car is considerably more than that, I cant say it was 
wrong of Zurich to deem the car a total loss. 
As Miss C wants to retain the car (or salvage), Zurich has deducted £2,000 from the 
settlement, which means it would only pay £6,000 to settle the claim. I cant say it was unfair 
for Zurich to make a deduction for the salvage. Thats because Zurich would have been able retain the damaged vehicle if Miss C did not. The policy document also provides for 
Zurich to make a deduction in these circumstances. 
With all of this in mind, I know Miss C will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Zurich Insurance PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman