DRN-1393409
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled his chargeback request.
What happened
Mr H bought a laptop through auction website eBay. For ease, Ill refer to eBay as the 
merchant throughout my decision. Mr H paid £3,100, using his Nationwide Visa debit card. 
When he opened the package after delivery, Mr H says there was no laptop inside, and 
instead the box contained only wires and foam.
Mr H contacted Nationwide to ask them for help. After he explained the merchant had 
refused to offer him a refund or allow the package to be returned, they agreed to raise a 
chargeback claim on his behalf.
The merchants bank defended the chargeback. And after reviewing the evidence from both 
parties, Nationwide decided not to take Mr Hs claim further and it was declined.
Mr H complained to Nationwide. He didnt agree with the evidence provided to defend his 
claim and said by not receiving the laptop or a refund it was causing him significant financial 
difficulty. He was also unhappy with the service hed received and felt he hadnt been given 
the right information, either before raising the chargeback or throughout the process.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said he confirmed to them the merchant 
had refused his attempts to resolve the dispute directly, so theyd raised the chargeback for 
him correctly. They said that in line with the VISA dispute process, theyd communicated 
only with the merchants bank and not with the merchant directly, as Mr H had been 
informed they would by a third party.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said he should be 
refunded the money hed lost and still thought Nationwide should have spoken the merchant 
directly to resolve the dispute.
Our investigator explained he could only look at whether Nationwide followed the 
chargeback process correctly and he thought they had done so. He also felt, based on the 
evidence hed seen, that Nationwides decision not to take Mr Hs dispute to arbitration was 
reasonable, as it was unlikely to succeed.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators opinion, saying he queried the package with the 
courier, but was told he had to sign for it anyway. He asked for a final decision, so his 
complaints been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for much the same reasons.
Mr H says he hasnt received the laptop hes paid a considerable amount for, so I 
understand he must be frustrated that the merchants bank defended the chargeback and his 
claim was declined. 
When we look at chargeback complaints, its not our role to decide whether the consumer 
shouldve won his dispute against the merchant. Rather, we look at whether the card issuer, 
in this case Nationwide, has dealt fairly with the consumers claim in line with the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules.
Whether Mr Hs chargeback claim is made is a decision for Nationwide. But if the reason the 
chargeback was requested exists in the scheme rules, and theres a reasonable chance of 
success, wed consider it good practice for the claim to be made. So Im pleased to see that 
in Mr Hs case, Nationwide did raise the chargeback request on his behalf.
Ive thought about whether Nationwide raised the chargeback at the right time and if they 
followed the correct procedure when doing so. Ive listened to Mr Hs call to Nationwide 
when he first brought the issue to their attention. Mr H confirmed hed already attempted to 
return the package to the merchant and to obtain a refund so, Im satisfied Nationwide were 
correct to proceed with the chargeback at this point to try to help him retrieve his money.
When a bank raises a chargeback, theres no guarantee the process will be successful and 
in this instance, the merchants bank defended the claim. Its then up to Nationwide to decide 
whether they take the claim further. 
Banks have the option to take a claim to arbitration, but Id only expect them to do so if they 
felt the evidence presented by the merchant wasnt sufficient to reject the claim. In this case 
Nationwide were satisfied with the evidence provided by the merchants bank and didnt feel 
Mr Hs case had a reasonable chance of succeeding.
In addition to the evidence Mr H provided, the merchants bank provided evidence from both 
the merchant and the delivery company used to send the parcel. They also provided proof of 
postage which recorded the weight of the package at the time it was sent as 3.505 KG.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Nationwide reviewed all the evidence available to 
them. I acknowledge Mr H doesnt think Nationwide should have gone to the delivery 
company for evidence as they are not the merchant, but Ive not seen any evidence that they 
have. Wed only expect them to communicate with Mr H and the merchants bank directly, 
but its fair they consider all evidence provided by those parties. So I think the decision not to 
take the chargeback claim to arbitration was reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr H is unhappy that he hasnt been able to recover his money. But taking 
everything into account, I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly or made any error, so I 
wont be asking them to do anything further.
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman