DRN-4359250
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the compensation Santander UK Plc (Santander) has offered her for 
several banking errors that she feels have had an accumulative effect and impact on her life 
and wellbeing.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But briefly the events began in October 2021 when Ms M requested her 
name to be changed on her account. In December 2021  when she went to notify the bank 
of a change of address, she discovered her name hadnt been changed. A new card was 
then sent to the incorrect (previous) address. When that error was realised, Ms Ms card had 
to be blocked and so Ms M was unable to access her account for a period of time. In 
January 2022, Ms M then fell victim to a scam (which has been refunded) but she 
experienced several issues during the handling of these complaints including misinformation, 
excessive wait times and poor customer service. 
I have broadly summarised the complaint issues with Santanders reference endings - along 
with what has already been paid and/or offered in the table below:
reference ending complaint issue offered (£) paid (£)
*****621 name change 150 150
*****819 card address 250 250
*****351 misinformation/service issues 150 150
****775 card blocked 100 100
*****560 payment blocked for checks 50  
*****171 (***883) incorrect info/handling of fraud claim 250  
Our investigator felt Santanders offer of £650 was fair and reasonable. Ms M didnt agree 
and felt the investigator had misunderstood what Santander had already offered her as well 
as underestimating the impact of all this had had on her.
Santander has paid £650 to Ms M already and had offered a further £350 (an additional offer 
of £50 was made after my involvement)  so £1,000 in total. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought Santander should put things right 
by paying Ms M an additional £850 on top of the £650 it has paid already. Ms M accepted 
my provisional decision and Santander confirmed it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Ms M has presented to 
us, but I have read all of her submissions. Im not responding to every single point made but 
instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Deciding on an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience, isnt an exact 
science. I need to think about the impact the mistakes made by Santander have had on Ms 
M when considering the amount of any award that might be appropriate, to compensate her 
for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. And I dont have the power to make 
any punitive award against Santander.
As a starting point, I can see why Ms M wanted these complaints dealt with together. It 
seems to me that one or two basic simple errors - of not changing her name and address - 
has led to a catalogue of failings and potentially caused Ms Ms account to be compromised 
by a fraudster - as she appears to have clicked on a link in a fraudulent message believing it 
related to the delivery of her new bank card.
Reading through Ms Ms complaint form along with evidence from the business file, its clear 
the impact all of these matters have caused her. Ms M has vulnerabilities and she made 
Santander aware of this early on into the series of complaints; and yet it continued to fail her.
I have looked at the individual issues separately and holistically and agree this matter overall 
has caused substantial distress and impact. In particular the events have had a 
compounding effect on a vulnerable consumer. Ive also taken into account the period time 
this all happened over; several months (although I appreciate Ms M is still feeling the impact 
today) and the frequency of the interactions Ms M had to have with Santander over these 
issues. 
I appreciate Santander has tried to put things right when things went wrong and has paid 
and offered some compensation. But considering whats already been paid/offered in this 
case, I think it should pay Ms M further compensation. 
Ms M was vulnerable to the extent that there has been a much greater impact on her than 
the average consumer and I dont think Santander has fully taken this into account. In 
particular the issues Ms M experienced when her card was blocked. This was an action 
taken due to the previous error Santander made when it sent a new card to the wrong 
address. This was just after she had moved to a new house and just after she raised her first 
complaint about her name not being changed. She explained that she had no food or gas 
over the festive period as a result of Santanders errors and had no facility by which to 
access her funds. I feel Santander has underestimated the impact all of this has had on 
Ms M and what was already a stressful time. And I think it ought to have been reasonably 
apparent to Santander that the impact caused might be a consequence of its mistakes. 
 
I also feel Santander should pay further compensation when Ms M fell victim to a scam. The 
sum Santander offered here mainly related to service issues and misinformation as well as 
the excessive wait times Ms M had experienced. In considering whether more compensation 
is fair in this case, Ive specifically thought about the impact of Santanders actions, rather 
than the impact of the crime itself. Santanders failure to sufficiently act has had an impact 
on Ms M not least because she was (until it refunded her losses) facing the very real 
possibility that she would not get her money back. Santander also had an opportunity to 
prevent the scam by intervening before processing the payments. But perhaps more than anything, Santander itself acknowledged that it could have educated Ms M in the run up to 
the scam. It appears Ms M clicked on a fraudulent link believing it related to the delivery of 
her new card. This in turn led to a cold call from her bank and a safe account scam (as is 
often typical in these scams). So, as well as Ms M being more vulnerable to falling victim to 
this scam due to Santanders previous errors, it also missed an opportunity to educate Ms M 
on fraud and scams which might have prevented the situation. 
I also think Santander has failed to look at these issues as a whole (and I feel this is 
reflected in its file submission with no overall summary of defence). I appreciate Santander 
has already offered a further sum of £350 but I dont think its enough here. Overall, I think 
there has been considerable distress, upset and worry as well as significant inconvenience 
and disruption that needed a lot of extra effort for a vulnerable consumer to sort out. There is 
no doubt in my mind that Santander ongoing actions compounded and amplified the impact 
and detriment Ms M suffered.
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I think Santander should put things right for Ms M by paying her an 
additional £850 (so £1,500 in total including the £650 already paid).
 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to put things right 
for Ms M as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman