DRN-2708444
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the actions of PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay 
Solutions when he sent money to one of their customers as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In October 2019, Mr E was sadly the victim of an 
HMRC scam. Mr E was contacted by scammers pretending to be from HMRC, he was told 
he had an outstanding tax bill. 
Mr E believed he was genuinely dealing with HMRC and made a payment of £4,800 from his 
account with his own bank N. He believed this was going to an account in his name with 
HMRC and he says he used his own name as the beneficiary name on the payment 
instruction. The payment was sent to the sort code and account number provided by the 
scammer which related to an account with PrePay. 
Shortly after sending the payment, Mr E realised hed been the victim of a scam and 
reported this to N. N in turn got in touch with PrePay and tried to recover his payment. 
Ultimately around £4,300 was returned which still left Mr E with a £500 loss. 
Mr E complained to PrePay, he says they ought to have checked that the account number 
sort code and beneficiary name matched. He says by failing to check all three theyve failed 
to protect him from fraud and he would like them to reimburse his loss. He was also 
concerned that PrePay had allowed a scammer to open and operate an account.  
PrePay responded to the complaint. In summary they said theyd responded promptly to 
contact from N and that they have robust measures in place when opening accounts. They 
said that they couldnt share details of their account holder for data protection reasons but 
said that they would co-operate with any police investigation if Mr E reported the matter. 
Being unhappy with this response, Mr E referred his complaint to our service. 
Before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about their own bank in Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam cases. 
But Mr Es right to refer his complaint about the receiving/beneficiary bank to our service 
comes about following changes made by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to our 
jurisdiction rules. These now allow, in limited circumstances, eligible complainants to refer 
complaints about the bank that received their funds. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
Overall she didnt think PrePay were responsible for Mr Es loss and didnt recommend that 
they needed to do anything further. As he still disagrees, Mr E has asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mr E, so Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at what PrePay did when opening the account for their customer and Im satisfied 
that they conducted appropriate checks in line with their obligations to do so. I dont think 
there was anything at that point that reasonably could have given them cause to suspect that 
the account would later go on to be used in connection with fraud or scams. So, I dont think 
PrePay could have prevented Mr Es loss in this way. 
Ive next looked at the payment Mr E sent to PrePays account holder. I understand Mr Es 
point about the beneficiary name he put on his payment instruction and the fact that it wont 
have matched the name of the PrePay account holder. But at the time of the payment 
PrePay were under no obligation to check that it matched the name of the account holder 
when applying the payment to their customers account. 
The relevant regulations here are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These 
explain that a payment will be executed in line with the unique identifiers. Typically this 
means the sort code and account number. The regulations go on to explain that if additional 
information is provided (such as a reference or the name of the intended beneficiary), the 
payment service provider (or bank) is liable only for the execution of the payment transaction 
in accordance with the unique identifiers. 
As the payment went to the sort code and account number provided, I cant say PrePay did 
anything wrong or should have done more. Im aware that more recently a system known as 
confirmation of payee or COP has been introduced. If the banks involved use this system it 
allows a sender to check that the account name of their intended beneficiary matches what 
they are expecting. But as that system wasnt in place at the time of Mr Es payment, I cant 
fairly criticise PrePay for this not being an option available to Mr E at the time.
Ive also looked at what PrePay did when N reported to them that Mr Es payment to their 
customer had been made as a result of a scam. Im satisfied that they acted promptly and 
took the appropriate action. And even though Mr E discovered the scam and acted quickly 
himself, it still meant that some of his money had already been withdrawn by the scammer. I 
dont think PrePay are responsible for any unreasonable delays in taking action that would 
have otherwise resulted in Mr E recovering more money than he did. And for clarity there 
was nothing so unusual in the activity of their account holder or any other reports of fraud or 
similar that I think means PrePay ought to have acted sooner than when N made them 
aware of the issue. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr E says he feels that PrePay are protecting the 
fraudster by not sharing their details with him. He would like them to give him the details so 
he can go to the police, or for PrePay themselves to report the matter to the police. Again, I 
can understand why Mr E sees it this way, but it would be for him, as the victim who has 
suffered the loss, to report this to the police. I wouldnt expect PrePay to do this on his 
behalf. I also dont think its unreasonable for PrePay not to share their account holders 
details directly with Mr E. PrePay have said they will co-operate with the police if asked and I 
think that is fair.Im sorry Mr E wasnt able to recover all his money. But I dont think there are any failings by 
PrePay which caused or contributed to his loss. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell them they 
need to reimburse him.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman