DRN-4435782
The complaint
Mr R complained Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) delayed 
him taking his pension annuity. He would like Scottish Friendly to set up his annuity and 
compensate him for any financial loss he has suffered.
What happened
I issued my Provisional decision in September 2023, the relevant parts of which are 
reproduced below and forms part of my decision:
Mr R says he initially called Scottish Friendly on 16 May 2022 to discuss the retirement 
options on his pension plan, as his retirement date was approaching. Scottish Friendly says 
it has no record of this call, or any other contact from Mr R until 30 June 2022. As a result of 
this later call, Scottish Friendly undertook to send Mr R documentation relating to the first 
stage of the four stage process it goes through when processing a policyholders retirement.
When Mr R did not receive these documents by 14 July 2022, he emailed Scottish Friendly 
to ask them to send them to him. Scottish Friendly subsequently sent these documents to 
Mr R on 16 July, and he completed and returned them on 22 July 2022.
When he did not receive a reply from Scottish Friendly, Mr R contacted it on a number of 
occasions to chase up the next stage of the process.
Scottish Friendly then sent Mr R the second stage of pension journey documents on 16 
August 2022. This included a pension advice form and risk questionnaire for Mr R to 
complete.
Mr R complained to Scottish Friendly on 18 August 2022 as he was unhappy with the slow 
progress of the overall retirement process and his perception of the poor level of service he 
was receiving from Scottish Friendly.
Mr R completed and returned the second stage of pension journey documents to Scottish 
Friendly on 15 September 2022. On processing the documents, Scottish Friendly noticed 
some conflicting information, so it reissued the pension advice form to him on 4 October 
2022.
Following receipt of an updated form from Mr R, Scottish Friendly sent him the stage three 
documentation on 19 October 2022. This included a pension access form and request for 
information related to his proof of identity. Mr R completed and returned the third stage of 
pension journey documents with this information on 29 November 2022.
On reviewing the information Mr R had provided, Scottish Friendly wrote to him on 5 
December 2022 advising him he might be able to obtain an enhanced annuity. They asked 
him to complete a health questionnaire. Mr R contends that he returned this documentation 
in January 2023, but Scottish Friendlys records show that it received this on 8 March 2023. 
Scottish Friendly then provided Mr R with an enhanced lifetime annuity quote and Open 
Market Option application form on 16 March 2022.
During October, Scottish Friendly also investigated Mr Rs complaint. As a result of its 
investigation, Scottish Friendly upheld Mr Rs complaint. It sent him a letter and an offer of 
£100 compensation for the poor service he had received.
Mr R was not satisfied with this response and so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence in this case and recommended that as a result of the 
delays Scottish Friendly had introduced to the process, the annuity rate quoted to Mr R 
should be backdated 15 working days to what it would have been on 23 February 2023, with 
Scottish Friendly responsible for ensuring he had suffered no financial loss as a result. The 
investigator also recommended that the compensation to Mr R be increased to £250 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience Scottish Friendlys poor level of service had 
caused him.
Scottish Friendly agreed to increase the compensation level in respect of Mr Rs distress and 
inconvenience, but felt it was unfair that the annuity quote be backdated in this way, as it felt 
that Mr R had also contributed to the delays.
Mr R contacted Scottish Friendly on 19 July 2023, requesting that it reissue the stage one 
journey documents to him, so he could assess his options. These were issued to him on 26 
July 2023, but he had not responded to these by the date of this decision.
The case was then passed to me to make a final decision. 
Our investigator contacted Mr R who confirmed that he had not completed and returned the 
documents Scottish Friendly sent him in March by the date of this decision. Consequently, 
he had not yet received any annuity payments and continued to work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I stated:
I intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
I have, however, reached a different conclusion in terms of what I think is fair and 
reasonable in terms of putting things right, so I think it is fair to explain that to both Mr R and 
Scottish Friendly and give them the chance to respond before I make my final decision. 
Firstly, I think it is important to note that the process involved in Mr R accessing his pension 
benefits is required by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and that Scottish Friendly is 
legally required to make sure that Mr R is informed of all the options he has for accessing his 
benefits. The process is designed to ensure that people receive the opportunity to take 
financial advice if they want and also to choose products that best suit their own individual 
retirement needs. I can appreciate that Mr R found the length and nature of the forms and 
documentation he had to complete somewhat frustrating, but Scottish Friendly did nothing 
wrong in terms of following its process, and further investigating the answers Mr R provided 
where it needed to.
The discrepancies between when Mr R says he provided information and when Scottish 
Friendlys records show its receipt may be explained, at least in part, by some evidence that 
indicates Mr R may have made a spelling mistake in an email address when contacting 
Scottish Friendly on at least one occasion. Again, I can understand that the apparent slow response of Scottish Friendly in this instance may have increased Mr Rs disillusionment 
with the process, but the fault for this particular error does not rest with Scottish Friendly.
Having said this, however, its also important to say that Scottish Friendly acknowledges its 
implementation of this process fell short of the standards that Mr R had a right to expect, 
causing a delay of 15 working days in the process. This delay was caused by the service it 
provided to Mr R failing to meet its own internal service standards on a number of occasions, 
which in turn caused Mr R a significant amount of frustration as he sought to access his 
pension benefits so that he could retire.
Given this, I agree with our investigator that £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr R suffered as a result of Scottish Friendlys failings is appropriate given 
the circumstances of this case.
I turn now to look at the issue of whether the enhanced annuity quote Mr R received in 
March 2023 should be backdated to 23 February to reflect the delays caused by Scottish 
Friendly. I have noted that Mr R had not returned the forms required to take up the enhanced 
annuity by the time I reviewed the evidence, over 5 months after they were sent to him. 
While I can appreciate Mr Rs sense of disillusionment with the process and his interactions 
with Scottish Friendly, I have to bear in mind that the role of this service is not to punish 
providers for their mistakes, but to try and ensure a consumer is put back into the situation 
they would have been in had the process been carried out correctly and without delays. It is 
also the position of this service that a complainant has a duty to mitigate any losses they 
may have suffered, and to engage with the provider to allow the process to be completed.
In this situation, I think its reasonable to conclude that although Scottish Friendly fell short of 
its own internal standards and caused delays to the process, I cannot ignore the fact that   
Mr R had not returned the forms to Scottish Friendly several months after they were issue to 
him. Annuity quotations are based on a number of factors, not least the age of the customer 
at the date of the quotation and the interest rates and investment assumptions that apply at 
the time they are calculated.
Given this, I find its fair and reasonable to find that the annuity rate that was quoted to him in 
March would, by now, be no longer valid. Consequently, I find that Scottish Friendly is not 
required to honour the quote that Mr R received in March, but to engage with him so that he 
can receive an updated annuity quotation so he can make an informed decision about the 
best option for him to take his retirement benefits. 
Consequently, and disappointing as it will be for Mr R to hear, the only way for him to access 
his pension benefits and retire will be for him to re-engage with Scottish Friendly and seek a 
new enhanced annuity quote, either with Scottish Friendly or through an Open Market 
Option. He also has the option of transferring his pension benefits away from Scottish 
Friendly to another provider, and engaging with them to take his benefits
Scottish Friendly responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed to increase the 
amount it would pay Mr R in respect of the distress and inconvenience its mistakes had 
caused him to £250.
Mr R also responded to my provisional decision to reiterate that he felt that the as a result of 
Scottish Friendlys delay in processing his retirement forms, he was unable to retire as he 
had planned and had to continue to work for another year. While I can accept that Mr R felt 
compelled to continue to work past his planned retirement date, I have to bear in mind that 
the role of this service is to try to place people back into the financial position that they would 
have been in if it were not for a business mistakes. As such, I cannot see that Mr R has 
been financially disadvantaged by continuing to work and so I can only consider the distress 
and inconvenience he has suffered in my decision.Putting things right
Im satisfied that the delays that Scottish Friendly caused in this process matter will have 
caused Mr R considerable distress and inconvenience. I agree with our investigator that a 
total of £250 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances of this 
case. Scottish Friendly should pay Mr R a total of £250 including any payment it has already 
made to him.
It should provide Mr R with any updated documentation necessary to allow him to complete 
the process and access his retirement benefits or transfer those benefits to another provider 
if that is his choice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Scottish 
Friendly Life Assurance Limited should pay the amount calculated and carry out the actions 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman