DRN-4244568
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Metro Bank PLC registering a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things more briefly.
In 2018, Metro received information that Mr N was involved in fraudulent activity, particularly 
surrounding a credit hed received of about £7,000. They asked him for evidence he was 
entitled to that money, but didnt receive evidence they found sufficient. They closed his 
account and removed the money to return it to the sending bank. They made his remaining 
balance  £248.76  available to withdraw in branch.
In 2020, an ombudsman colleague looked into things in a final decision. They found that 
Mr N had not adequately evidenced the source of the £7,000 or so he received, that Metro 
had adequate reasons to return the money and close his account, and that Metro were not 
obliged to give Mr N more details about where theyd sent those funds.
In 2021, the public prosecutor found they couldnt sufficiently prove that Mr N had committed 
the crimes he was accused of, and discontinued proceedings against him. Following this, 
Metro removed the CIFAS marker as a gesture of goodwill. They also found it wasnt clear 
whether Mr N had picked up the accounts £248.76 remaining balance or not, so they offered 
it to him again just in case.
Mr N came back to our service. He wanted compensation for the marker. He wanted to be 
repaid the funds of around £7,000, or given more details about where theyd been sent.
Another ombudsman colleague explained to Mr N that the 2020 decision was indeed final, 
so we could not reconsider the things which were decided then  including the matter of the 
£7,000 or so.
Our adjudicator looked into the other matters independently. They thought Metro had acted 
fairly in offering Mr N his remaining balance again, even though there was a good chance 
hed already been paid it before. They suggested Metro offer Mr N £200 compensation for 
any distress caused by the marker, which Metro agreed to.
Mr N asked for a final decision, particularly as he said the marker had a severe impact on 
him. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To reiterate, I cannot reconsider any matters which were already dealt with in my colleagues 
final decision in 2020. As we have explained, final decisions really are final. A decision by an 
ombudsman is the final stage in our process. Once it is issued, we have no power to re-
examine the complaint or to take it further.
That means I will not make any findings on what happened to the funds Mr N received of 
around £7,000, nor the closure of his account. In their 2020 final decision, my colleague 
already concluded that Mr N did not adequately evidence his entitlement to those funds, that 
Metro did nothing wrong in reversing the credit or closing the account, and that Metro did not 
need to give him further details. If Mr N would like to take those matters further, he may be 
able to pursue Metro through the courts, as he did not accept that final decision.
Turning to the CIFAS marker, I should explain that the requirements for a CIFAS marker are 
significantly different to the requirements for a criminal prosecution. In order to register this 
marker, Metro were not required to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that Mr N had done 
something wrong. They only needed to have reasonable grounds to believe he'd misused 
his account, going beyond a suspicion or concern, with appropriate supporting evidence.
I find that Metro did have a sufficient basis to register this marker when they did so in 2018. 
They received credible information giving them reasonable grounds to believe hed misused 
his account. They tried to investigate this with Mr N, and my colleague found that what he 
provided in return gave Metro further grounds for concern. My colleague also found that 
Mr N had not evidenced his entitlement to the disputed funds, even when such evidence 
would not have been difficult to provide. So taking into account the evidence Metro had in 
2018, I find that they acted fairly in registering this CIFAS marker.
The court documents from 2021 did not exist in 2018. So they were not relevant in Metros 
decision to register the marker back in 2018. After Metro received the 2021 court 
documents, they removed the CIFAS marker. That also seems fair.
I understand that Mr N went through a truly tough time following the marker. Ive thought 
carefully about whether Metro should pay Mr N compensation for the impact that their 
marker had. However, Id only award compensation here in order to put right something 
which Metro did wrong. And as I explained above, Ive not found that Metro got things wrong. 
They had sufficient grounds to register this marker based on what they knew at the time, and 
they acted appropriately when later presented with new evidence.
So to be frank, had Metro not already agreed to pay Mr N £200, I would not have awarded 
any compensation here at all. I considered whether to issue a provisional decision changing 
the outcome of this case to remove this compensation. But given how long this dispute has 
already been going on for, the amounts involved, the fact that Metro have already agreed to 
pay the £200, and the fact that I do not wish to put Mr N in a worse position unnecessarily, 
I have chosen not to reverse the award of £200 compensation. I think its more reasonable to 
let it go ahead in this case. Hopefully it will help to acknowledge some of the stress he faced.
Turning to Mr Ns remaining balance from the closed account, I will again reiterate that 
I have only considered the matter of the £248.76 which was left over in the account after it 
was closed  and not the £7,000 or so which was the subject of the previous final decision.I can see that Metro made this £248.76 sufficiently available to Mr N when the account was 
closed. He only needed to pick it up in branch. Its not clear from the records whether Mr N 
did pick it up at the time or not. So just in case he didnt, Metro have offered to pay him the 
£248.76 again  despite the risk they might have ended up paying it twice over. Thats very 
fair to Mr N. I cant see that Metro did anything wrong there either.
Putting things right
As per what theyve agreed to, Metro Bank PLC should:
Pay Mr N the £248.76 that was remaining in his account at closure; and-
Pay Mr N an additional £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I direct Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr N the £248.76 that was 
remaining in his account at closure, and a further £200 compensation. I do not make any 
further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman