DRN-2546421
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of his wife, Ms R, about Metro Bank PLCs (Metro Bank) handling 
of an incoming transfer into Ms Rs account. Mr P also complains about poor customer 
service provided by Metro Bank when asked to trace the funds. Mr P wants Metro Bank to 
pay compensation for losses he says have been incurred due to the delay.
What happened
Ms R arranged an international transfer to arrive into her Metro Bank account. The sum of 
US$26,500 was sent on 6 April 2020. Having not received the funds into the account, Ms R 
chased Metro Bank on a number of occasions and was then told they wouldnt carry out a 
trace to locate the funds. The funds were then received into Ms Rs account on 14 April.
 
Ms R was concerned about the conversion rate used and recent calls shed had with Metro 
Bank so she raised a complaint. Metro Bank responded and accepted their service had 
fallen short in relation to a call made by Mr P on 14 April. They upheld this part of the 
complaint and, as well as apologising, they explained they had given direct feedback to the 
relevant colleague. They explained US$26,500 was sent but Metro Bank applied a 3% 
spread along with the market rate on the day for incoming international payments. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms R and thought that Metro Bank hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the transfer of funds. And, she felt Metro Banks 
apology was reasonable to resolve the customer service issue. Ms R disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Transfer of funds 
I can see from the information provided that the sum of US$26,500 is sent on 6 April and is 
received by Metro Bank on 14 April. The funds are then applied to Ms Rs account the same 
day. I do understand why Ms R is concerned about this  particularly as she says she was 
told when arranging the transfer that it should take 48 hours for the funds to be received. 
Funds have been sent from one bank and not received into Ms Rs account until over a week 
later. So, I do appreciate this raises questions about where the funds had been over this 
period. In such transactions there will often be other intermediary banks involved so this can 
sometimes account for the delay. 
While I cant say for certain that has been the case here, my role is to look at the service 
provided by Metro Bank and whether they are responsible for any delay. I do understand 
why this event has caused worry for Ms R given that she and Mr P needed the funds for a 
house purchase. But I cant say Metro Bank have done anything wrong in relation to this part 
of the complaint. 
Ms Rs accounts terms and conditions say Metro Bank will only accept responsibility for 
payments into your account after we have received them. If we receive an electronic 
payment, we will apply the money to your account and make it available for you when we 
receive it. I can see the funds were applied to Ms Rs account the same day they were 
received and I cant hold Metro Bank responsible for funds which werent received until 14 
April. 
I understand Mr P had to make alternative arrangements to continue with the house 
purchase when the funds didnt arrive. I understand the frustration and inconvenience 
caused but one of the losses is specific to Mr P who isnt the consumer in this case. So, I 
cant look into that. In relation to the other losses, given that I havent upheld this part of the 
complaint, I wont be asking Metro Bank to pay those. 
Mr P has provided details of phone calls he and Ms R have made which he says were 
lengthy. I do understand their frustration but these calls relate to the funds not being 
received. Ive explained the reasons why I dont think Metro Bank have made an error here, 
so I cant say the phone calls were made as a result of any error by them.  
Exchange rate
 
Ms R receives the sum of £20,431.77 into her account after Metro Bank convert the sum 
received from US Dollars to Great British Pounds. Ms R feels the sum received into her 
account isnt correct and Metro Bank havent applied an accurate conversion rate. I can see 
the conversion rate used by Metro Bank is 1.297  this is made up of a market rate of 1.2592 
plus a standard spread of 3% (which in this case is 0.0378).    
In relation to international transfers, the terms and conditions say: 
There is a charge for sending money and receiving money from outside the UK into 
and out of your account. Please contact us for the latest charges. We will take our 
charges from your account when you instruct us to send money outside the UK or 
when you receive money from outside the UK 
When sending or receiving money from outside the UK we will convert the payment 
into or out of your account to sterling at the exchange rate which applies at the time 
of the transaction. SWIFT payments coming into your account will be covered by our 
exchange rate. We will then add the payment to your account.   
I understand Ms R feels Metro Bank shouldve used a specific service providers rates and I 
can see Mr P has made enquiries with that service provider in relation to their rates. While 
the terms and conditions do make reference to this particular service provider and their 
rates, this isnt in relation to international transfers. The terms and conditions say Metro Bank 
will use their exchange rate and that is what theyve done. So, I cant say Metro Bank have 
been unreasonable as theyve acted in line with the terms and conditions. I have carried out 
my own calculation using the rates applied by Metro Bank and Ive arrived at the same figure 
which was paid into Ms Rs account. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.   
I note Mr P is told during a call with Metro Bank that they apply the rates from the service 
provider Ive referred to above. This doesnt change my decision on this part of the complaint 
because, as mentioned above, the terms and conditions allow Metro Bank to use their 
exchange rate. And, even though Mr P is given incorrect information, this doesnt persuade me that Metro Bank have acted unfairly in using the exchange rate they have. I have 
however considered the customer service element of the incorrect information below.   
 
Customer service 
Mr P says he called Metro Bank to query whether the funds had been received. When he 
was told they hadnt, he asked to speak with a manager. He says the manager was rude, 
refused to trace the funds and declined to register a complaint. Ive listened to this call and 
note the manager does explain Metro Bank, as the receiving bank, cant trace the funds. He 
explains the responsibility to trace the funds rests with the bank who sent the funds. 
I cant say the information given by the manager is inaccurate. He explains the trace needs 
to be carried out by the sending bank and this is the case when involving international 
transfers. I do agree though with Metro Banks comment that the manager couldve passed 
Mr Ps call to another colleague to register the complaint. I agree the service here has been 
unreasonable and I think Metro Banks apology and feedback to the member of staff is fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr P says Metro Bank have given conflicting information in relation to tracing the funds. He 
says a call handler told Ms R they can trace the funds but Mr P was then told later they cant. 
Ive listened to this call and havent noted any occasion when Ms R is told by the call handler 
that Metro Bank will carry out a trace of the funds. The call handler explains the funds arent 
showing as being received into Ms Rs account and suggests she contacts the bank who 
sent the funds to carry out a payment trace. 
Ive listened to another call Ms R makes following receipt of the funds. During this call Ms R 
queries the amount received and the conversion rate used. The call handler explains they 
apply the exchange rate from a particular service providers website  this being the service 
provider I have referred to above. This information isnt correct given what I have said about 
the terms and conditions. Mr P says, had they known this exchange rate wasnt going to be 
used, then Ms R wouldve used another method to transfer the funds. I cant say however 
that there has been an impact here as this conversation took place after the funds had been 
received, and more importantly, after the arrangements had been made by Ms R to transfer 
the funds. So, I cant see Ms R relied on this information to influence her decision on the 
method of transfer to use.   
I note Mr P says both he and Ms R were led to believe Metro Bank always use the currency 
conversion tool from a particular service provider to calculate the exchange rates. Mr P says 
even before Ms R arranged this transfer, they had been informed on a number of occasions 
by Metro Bank that they use the exchange rate from this service provider. I have noted these 
comments, but I havent seen any evidence which shows Metro Bank informed Ms R prior to 
this transfer that they will use this service providers exchange rate. I have listened to a call 
Mr P has sent us which he says took place recently. During the call to Metro Bank, Mr P is 
told, in relation to the receipt of funds from overseas, they apply the exchange rate used by 
this particular service provider. While I dont disagree this is said by the call handler, it 
doesnt evidence that Ms R was told this exchange rate would apply for her specific 
transaction. Mr P says this call proves theyve always been told about this exchange rate 
applying, but I havent been provided with evidence of those other calls which Mr P says 
took place prior to Ms R arranging this transfer.  
In summary, I dont think Metro Bank have acted unfairly and unreasonably as the evidence 
shows the funds werent received until 14 April. The funds were then processed and applied 
to Ms Rs account the same day. And, I think Metro Banks apology and feedback for the 
customer service issue is reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman