DRN-4465496
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a scam, 
losing money from her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs S was looking to book some flights and found what appeared to be a legitimate travel 
agency online. She contacted the agency and made enquiries about the flights she needed. 
She was given a lot of genuine information about available options and was presented with a 
price that appealed, so she decided to go ahead and book.
What Mrs S didnt know at the time was that shed stumbled upon a scam website. The 
travel agent she was dealing with was in fact a fraudster.
The fraudster used clever tricks, such as creating a genuine booking reference, before 
securing payment from Mrs S. But when she went on to authorise the payments for the 
flights, the money went somewhere she didnt intend. 
Each payment required a One-Time Passcode (OTP) for it to be authorised. And one of the 
payments (for £1,095.44) was stopped for additional checks. Mrs S had to speak to 
Santander on the phone to verify it was genuine. 
It appears flights were booked. But they were for people Mrs S didnt know and for trips she 
had no knowledge of. 
The scam came to light when the booking reference Mrs S had been given no longer 
worked. She contacted Santander to report what had happened and to ask for a refund.  
Santander looked into what had happened, initially refunding the disputed payments. But, 
once the investigation was complete, it re-debited the funds and said it wouldnt refund 
Mrs S. It said that shed authorised the payments and so there was little it could do. 
Santander did raise chargebacks, but they were successfully defended by the merchants.
Mrs S was unhappy with how Santander dealt with the matter and with the outcome of her 
fraud case. So she brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said Santander had done what it could to try and recover Mrs S money by raising the 
chargeback. She also said that, whilst she could understand Mrs S frustrations in dealing 
with Santander and it taking a long time to get an answer, she didnt believe any 
compensation was due. 
Mrs S remained dissatisfied and so asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs S has been the victim of a cruel scam. Such crimes can have 
significant effects on people, far beyond the financial loss. Theres a mental and emotional 
impact too. I know a family trip was ruined because of the actions of a fraudster. I am 
sympathetic toward Mrs S, but Im reaching the same conclusion as our investigator. For 
broadly the same reasons. 
I must consider the rules and regulations that are relevant to Mrs S complaint. Most 
significant here are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. Broadly speaking, these state 
that a customer will be responsible for any transactions out of their account that are properly 
authorised.
Theres no question as to whether Mrs S authorised the payments. She did agree to the 
money leaving her account, having provided her card details and confirmed the transactions 
using OTPs. That she did so under false pretences, and following the instructions of a 
scammer, doesnt change the position on authorisation. And so Mrs S is liable for the 
payments. 
Santander did raise chargebacks when Mrs S reported the scam. But chargebacks follow 
rules that are set by the card scheme. And they arent a legal right. When a complaint about 
a chargeback is brought to this service our role is to consider whether the bank has followed 
the correct steps. It isnt for us to determine the outcome of the underlying dispute.
The evidence we have shows the chargebacks were successfully defended. The merchants 
used did book flights and those flights were taken. And so Santander did all it could in the 
circumstances.
I can understand how that feels unfair and even illogical to Mrs S. But, as Ive said, 
Santander have followed the correct process and so I cant say the answer it gave to Mrs S 
complaint was unfair or unreasonable.
Ive also thought about whether Mrs S might have any claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Broadly speaking, this sets out that in some circumstances a 
finance provider (here Santander, being the provider of the credit card account) might be 
held responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of a merchant. But 
even here a claim wouldnt be successful. Mrs S doesnt have the required relationship as 
she doesnt have a contractual connection to the merchants used. And, as with the 
chargeback, it would be difficult to evidence a breach of contract. 
Theres nothing else within the facts of the case that lead me to believe Santander ought to 
be responsible for Mrs S loss. The transactions were properly authorised, and Santander 
had no reason to suspect that something was wrong. The transactions didnt appear 
particularly risky. When the higher value payment was being made Santander took extra 
steps to make sure it was genuine. I dont find it needed to do more in the circumstances.  
I know Mrs S is unhappy with the service provided  and time taken  by Santander over the 
course of her claim. I can see how it would have been very frustrating to not have had the 
refund and for the matter to not have been dealt with quickly and efficiently. But I dont find 
there are grounds to say Santander ought to pay compensation.
The bank did provide a refund when the disputed transactions were raised, albeit a 
temporary one. And it did have to wait for the chargeback process to be completed. Much of 
the time taken was out of its hands. Whilst Im not saying that everything Santander did was 
perfect, I dont find there were such significant errors that it ought now compensate Mrs S.   
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs S complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Ben MurrayOmbudsman