DRN-3420231
The complaint
Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W complain about Towergate Underwriting Group Limited trading as 
Smith & Pinching General Insurance Services (Towergate) because of issues they 
encountered when trying to make payment for their policy. They want Towergate to pay 
them compensation for their distress and inconvenience and to explain what went wrong.
What happened
Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W held a joint landlords insurance policy with Towergate. This was 
due to be renewed on 20 August 2021. 
Towergate sent Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W renewal information and on 18 August 2021 Mr W 
tried to renew the policy over the phone, using his credit card. That transaction failed. Mr W 
tried a further 2 occasions during 18 and 19 August 2021 and when these too failed he had 
to make a bank transfer to complete the policy renewal. 
Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W complained to Towergate. 
Towergate investigated and sent their final response in October 2021.
In that response, Towergate did not uphold Miss W, Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Towergate said that the problem with the transactions was that Mr Ws credit card provider 
was attempting to process the transaction as e-commerce rather than a phone transaction. 
Towergate stated that it had completed its part of the transactions correctly and so it did not 
uphold the complaint.
Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not uphold the complaint. She explained that 
on the evidence it appeared that there was miscommunication between Towergate and the 
credit card provider about the type of transaction being carried out, but it was not clear which 
business was at fault. She considered that there was no evidence of a failure of service and 
did not ask Towergate to do anything further. 
Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I appreciate why Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W were frustrated. They had made every 
effort to ensure that they paid for their policy in good time and they have received no clear 
explanation for the failure of the transactions.
Mr W has explained that he had wanted to use his credit card for the transaction to maintain 
his cash flow, but as the transactions failed he had to use a bank transfer and this caused Mr 
W to have to take funds from a savings account, losing interest benefits. Miss W, Mr W and 
Mrs W have also pointed to the fact that the other business has paid them some 
compensation for their inconvenience, and they feel that Towergate is more responsible for 
what went wrong that the credit card provider. 
I appreciate how they feel but, as explained by my colleague, our role is not to punish 
financial businesses when things go wrong, or to be prescriptive about how businesses 
ought to conduct their business. Our role is to look at whether a business has done anything 
substantially wrong, and if so, if that has had consequences for the consumer. Where it has, 
we can direct compensation. 
In this instance, it remains unclear what caused the transactions to fail. Both businesses 
have indicated that they failed due to the other businesss actions and the way the 
transaction was processed. 
I have not seen evidence to show that there was a mistake in how the transactions were 
attempted by Towergate, nor that any fault was due to Towergates actions or understanding 
of the relevant regulations.
Consequently, I cannot say that Towergate has done anything substantially wrong. 
I appreciate that Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W feel differently, but I do not consider that the 
failure of a transaction in circumstances like this necessarily means that there has been a 
failure by a business which justifies an award of compensation.
I understand that the failures of the transaction meant that Mr W was caused short term 
worry about whether there was a problem with his card, and he had to make alternative 
arrangements to pay for the policy, and this affected his choices with his cash flow, but I do 
not consider that I have seen evidence of Towergate having failed in its responsibilities to 
him. 
I therefore agree with the investigators view, and do not uphold this complaint. 
I understand that this will be disappointing to Miss W, Mr W and Mrs W but I hope it makes 
clear my reasons for reaching this decision. 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Miss W, Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint and do 
not ask Towergate Underwriting Group Limited trading as Smith & Pinching General 
Insurance Services to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W, Mr W and 
Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman