DRN-4051761
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Pensionhelp Limited (PL) misconstrued his comments as 
complaints and then refused to provide advice on his pension transfer.
Provisional decision
On 16 March 2023 I issued a provisional decision. For ease of reference I've copied the 
relevant extracts below: I said:
What happened
Mr C wanted advice about transferring the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to an alternative pension arrangement. Mr C wanted to have 
access to the tax free cash that making such a transfer would allow. His financial adviser 
referred him to PL on 23 March 2022.
On 25 March 2022 Mr C provided some information online. He also asked PL to post him an 
information pack as it was awkward to read online. PL did so that day. The cover letter called 
Mr C by the wrong first name.
Three days later, on 28 March 2022, PL rang Mr C looking for information from him. During 
that call he mentioned that PL had previously addressed him by the wrong name.
On 31 March 2022 PL asked Mr C to complete a confidential financial review online. It said 
it would take around 30 minutes to complete. Mr C replied later that day. He said he was 
collating the information required but he didnt have all of it available and would need to 
obtain some of it from external sources. He said that 30 minutes to provide all the 
information required was ridiculous.
The next day, 1 April 2022. PL emailed Mr C again. It said that Mr C had registered two 
complaints with its complaint team. The first on 28 March 2022 and another on 
31 March 2022. And given his dissatisfaction with its service, it had decided to close its 
advice file.
In a further exchange the following week Mr C said PL told him it had dropped him as a 
client because he pointed out some inconsistencies. But Mr C said he hadn't raised any 
complaints with its complaint team. He said he was disgusted with the way PL had treated 
him, over what (transferring a pension) could be a stressful time and a life-changing event.
Mr C eventually complained to this Service and we forwarded it to PL. It replied. Amongst 
other things it said Mr C was unhappy that it had disengaged from the advice process. PL 
added that it hadn't treated his comments made on 31 March 2022 as a formal complaint but 
considered those an expression of frustration. And that during the call of 28 March 2022 
Mr C had said he had a minor complaint but was happy it had been resolved during that call.
PL also said it was under no obligation to provide advice and it was entitled to make a 
decision about withdrawing from the advice process. It said it wasnt its usual policy to 
explain why it had withdrawn from giving advice. But it said that  given Mr Cs 
dissatisfaction with its service at an early stage  he wasnt likely to trust it. So it felt it was 
best to disengage at an early stage. It said that Mr C could have appointed another advising 
firm if hed wanted to proceed with the transfer.
Mr C asked us to continue to look into his complaint. One of our investigators did so but he 
didnt think this was a complaint we had the power to consider. Mr C didnt agree with our 
investigator so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and PL have made a number of points in bringing the complaint and replying to it. 
I've carefully considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address each 
and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues I see as being at the heart 
of Mr Cs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This 
includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Can we look at this complaint?
We dont have a free hand to consider every complaint brought to us. Our rules are called 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and are set out in the FCAs handbook. DISP 2.3.1R 
says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1) Regulated activities
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Complaint handling, of itself, is not a regulated activity. So, If Mr Cs complaint to us was 
solely about the manner in which PL dealt with his complaint, that wouldnt be in our 
jurisdiction. But in this instance I think Mr Cs complaint goes beyond complaint handling. I 
think its fundamentally about the service PL gave when taking him through the advisory 
process, and in particular its decision not to proceed with giving him advice.
PLs email of 1 April 2022 referred to complaints which, it said, Mr C had registered with its 
complaint team. I can understand why Mr C took objection to this, as he quite correctly said 
that he hadn't registered any complaint with the complaint team. And its notable that PL 
itself didnt actually give Mr C a formal complaint response at that time. But Mr Cs complaint 
now isn't about whether or not PL should have treated his comments as complaints. Instead 
it seems to me that his dissatisfaction stems from PLs decision to disengage with him and to 
refuse to provide an ongoing service as a result of his concerns. And I think its that decision 
 the decision to disengage  which has prompted Mr C to complain to this Service. As such 
I dont think it would be fair to categorise Mr Cs concerns as being about complaint handling 
alone.There are other issues I need to think about before deciding whether or not this is a case we 
have the power to consider. At the time that PL told Mr C it no longer wished to advise him, 
PL hadnt actually given any advice. It was still at the fact-finding stage of the advisory 
journey. And fact-finding alone isnt a regulated activity. So I need to consider whether it was 
ancillary to its advisory process, which is a regulated activity. Having thought about this 
very carefully, I'm satisfied that in the circumstances of this case that it is.
Thats because Mr Cs financial adviser referred Mr C to PL with a clear intention for it to 
give him advice about a DB transfer. And the fact-find was an early stage of that process, 
with the intention being that  once completed  PL would give Mr C regulated advice.
Clearly, PL didnt ever actually complete that advice process. So it didn't give regulated 
advice. But, at the time, PLs intention was to do so. And PLs decision to disengage with the 
process, while putting a stop to the advisory process, was ancillary to that regulated activity 
of giving advice. It follows that this is a complaint I do have the power to look at. So I've gone 
on to set out my provisional findings on that below.
Was it reasonable for PL to tell Mr C it no longer wished to advise him?
I can understand that, from Mr Cs perspective, he did nothing wrong. He told PL it had used 
an incorrect name, which didnt fill him with confidence. And he then pointed out an 
inconsistency in something else it had told him about the time involved in providing 
information. Neither of those things seem unreasonable. So I can understand why he was 
frustrated by PLs decision to cease advising him, especially after he'd gone to the trouble of 
answering questions and providing evidence. But that doesn't mean that PL has treated 
Mr C unfairly.
PL wasnt under any obligation to give Mr C advice. And, as I understand it, at the time that it 
removed its offer of service it hadn't charged him for any of it and there was no formal 
agreement in place that advice would be provided. So, while I can understand that its 
decision to disengage with Mr C came as a surprise, and a source of frustration to him, I 
don't think that means it acted unfairly.
The regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), guidance is that a starting point for 
advising firms is that a transfer away from a DB scheme will not be suitable for most 
consumers. So, before making a recommendation to transfer firms like PL will have to gather 
compelling evidence that a transfer is in the consumers best interests. Giving advice on a 
DB transfer is, generally, a complex process. It will usually involve gathering and analysing a 
considerable amount of evidence. The process is often slow, with no guarantee that it will 
end with positive advice that the consumer should transfer. And it's not uncommon for the 
advice process to take months only for the consumer involved to be disappointed by the 
outcome at its conclusion.
In this case, it seems that, given Mr Cs early dissatisfaction with PLs service, it felt that 
Mr C was likely to continue to be dissatisfied as the process continued. So, it took the 
decision to disengage its offer of service. Thats a commercial decision its entitled to come 
to. Further, I note it did so around nine days after Mr C had started the ball rolling. And, at 
that time Mr Cs DB scheme administrators still hadn't provided a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) quotation. Thats significant as scheme administrators will usually only 
guarantee a CETV quote for three months, and if an updated quote is needed then the 
administrators will usually apply a charge. But given that the administrators hadn't provided a 
CETV quote, there was no danger of it expiring or of Mr C needing to pay for another one. 
Instead he could have approached another advising firm and asked for the CETV quote at 
that stage.It follows that, while I can understand Mr Cs frustration, and while PL could have worded 
some of its communication more clearly, I don't think, overall, it dealt with him unreasonably. 
It took a relatively early decision not to continue to offer its services. That was a decision it 
was entitled to come to. And doing that as early as it did would have allowed Mr C to seek 
advice from another firm without any detriment to him. It follows that I dont think PL treated 
him unfairly.
Developments 
Mr C replied to my provisional decision. He said his key complaint was that PL lied to say 
hed made an official complaint and used that against him to drop him as a client. He said he 
didnt make an official complaint. He said I was endorsing PLs behaviour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs said his complaint wasnt that PL dropped him as a client, but that they lied in order to 
do so. But that doesn't change the thrust of my findings.
I said in my provisional decision that Mr C hadn't registered any formal complaint with PLs 
complaint team. I also said I could understand why he took objection to PLs comment that 
he had. In addition I pointed out that some of PLs correspondence could have been more 
clearly worded. But I dont think that means it acted unreasonably in removing its offer of 
service.
Its clearly not helpful when businesses like PL make a mistake of this nature. Its not in 
doubt that Mr C hadn't made an official complaint. So PL clearly shouldnt have said that he 
had. But that doesn't mean PL used a deliberate lie as an excuse to drop Mr C as a client. 
PLs regulator, the FCA, advises firms to consider treating any expression of dissatisfaction 
as a complaint, regardless of whether or not the consumer has said they wish to complain. 
And it seems that in this case that was how PL initially considered Mr Cs comments, even 
though he hadn't said he wanted to raise a formal complaint. But, as it later explained, it 
didnt think Mr Cs comments had met the threshold of a formal complaint and so didnt 
respond to it formally at that time. 
It might also help if I repeat that PL wasnt under any obligation to give Mr C advice. That 
was regardless of whether he made a formal complaint or not. And it explained that it felt 
going forward, it was unlikely that Mr C would be satisfied with its service. So it chose to 
disengage from the advice process at an early juncture. It clearly wasn't helpful that it used 
an inaccurate statement  that Mr C had made a formal complaint  when it told him of its 
decision. But I dont see that inaccuracy as any more than an error rather than a deliberate 
fabrication. It follows that I dont intend to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman