DRN-2247145
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) acted 
irresponsibly when it allowed her to open a shopping catalogue account with Very. She is 
also unhappy that her credit limits were increased which she says has made her financial 
position worse.
What happened
Miss M opened a catalogue account with SDFC in December 2017 with an initial credit limit 
of £750. The credit limits were increased and decreased at various times. I understand that 
the account fell into arrears and that the balance was paid off for Miss M by a relative in 
early 2020, but the account remained open. 
Miss M thinks SDFC didnt check her circumstances properly when it allowed her to open the 
account or when it increased her credit limits. She says she was a student on a low income, 
and already in debt. Miss M says SDFC shouldnt have increased her credit limits as this 
tempted her to use credit she couldnt afford. Shes told us that she couldnt always afford 
her minimum payments and had to borrow from other lenders to repay her account with 
SDFC. 
SDFC didnt agree to uphold Miss Ms complaint but it did offer to remove any adverse 
information from her credit file. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ms complaint. She didnt think that SDFC had 
been wrong to allow Miss M to open her account with an initial credit limit of £750. And 
although SFDC didnt get everything right with Miss Ms account, she didnt think SDFC had 
caused Miss M a material loss. The adjudicator didnt think that SDFC should be asked to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint.
Miss M didnt agree with our adjudicator and asked for the matter to be referred to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and regulations throughout SDFCs lending relationship with Miss M required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focused  so SDFC had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss M. In 
practice this meant that SDFC had to ensure that making the payments to the credit wouldnt 
cause Miss M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (such as their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications 
of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether SDFC did what it needed to before 
initially agreeing to open Miss Ms account.
SDFC says it carried out some checks on Miss Ms credit file when she applied for the 
account. And that it used a system of credit assessment called credit scoring to decide 
whether to offer credit to Miss M, and when it assessed subsequent credit limit increases.
I am mindful that Miss M took this account some time ago and there is limited information 
about what she told SDFC about her circumstances when she applied for her account. But 
Ive seen a summary of the information that SDFC gathered from its checks at the time. I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate for SDFC to ask Miss M for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before initially 
agreeing the credit amount. Taking everything into account, I think its likely that SDFCs 
checks were reasonable and proportionate at the time. I dont think greater checks were 
required and I dont think it would have been proportionate to ask to see Miss Ms bank 
statements. I think it was reasonable for SDFC to rely on what Miss M told it and what it 
found in its checks when she applied to open her account.  So I dont think SDFC were 
wrong to initially open Miss Ms account and provide her with a credit limit of £750.
From the information that SDFC has provided it seems that the credit limits for Miss Ms 
account increased and decreased several times. Having been given an opening credit limit 
of £750, the highest credit limit applied to Miss Ms account was £1,550 and the lowest credit 
limit was £150. Miss M has complained that she shouldnt have been given additional credit 
and that it was unaffordable.
SDFC increased Miss Ms credit limit from £750 to £1,150 in May 2018  around five months 
after shed opened her account.
SDFC says it made its decisions to increase Miss Ms credit limits based on information it 
received from credit reference agencies and the way she operated her account.  SDFC was 
allowed under the credit agreement to change Miss Ms credit limit. I think it was fair and 
reasonable, in the early stages of its lending relationship with Miss M, for SDFC to rely on 
less detailed checks before it decided to increase her credit limit. From what Ive seen, Miss M managed her account well in the first few months. And SDFC 
says that there was nothing of concern apparent from its credit checks. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to increase her credit limit a few months after shed opened her account. 
I think SDFC might have wanted to ask Miss M a bit more about her income and her 
expenditure. But I dont think checks of that sort would have led to a different decision about 
the credit limit increase in May 2018. 
Miss M says she was struggling to manage her finances and that if SDFC had carried out 
better checks it would have discovered this. Miss M has sent us her bank statements and I 
can understand that she might have had difficulties repaying credit. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that she told SDFC about her financial difficulties, and its not something 
that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have uncovered at the time. 
I can see from Miss Ms account information that SDFC increased Miss Ms credit limit from 
£1,150 to £1,550 in September 2018. The limit was reduced to £825 in June 2019 before it 
was increased again to £1,325 in October 2019. I think on balance that SDFC ought 
reasonably to have carried out more a more thorough check when it increased Miss Ms 
credit limits on these occasions, to satisfy itself that she could repay the increased credit 
sustainably.
But from what Ive seen, Miss M didnt utilise the higher credit limits  so I dont think she lost 
out from being given more available credit. Miss Ms total account balance rarely went above 
her original credit limit of £750 and on each occasion it remained under £800. And I dont 
think Miss M has lost out as a result of the increased credit limits from paying late payment 
fees on sums that were over the limit she could afford to repay.
So even though I think SDFC ought reasonably to have carried out better checks before it 
increased Miss Ms credit limits in 2018 and 2019, I dont think she has lost out as a result of 
anything that SDFC did at the time.
Has SDFC acted unfairly towards Miss M in some other way?
SDFC says that whilst Miss M missed some minimum payments, she brought her account 
back up to date each time. SDFC says it tried to contact Miss M when her account fell into 
arrears but found it difficult to do so. And that when Miss Ms account fell into arrears for a 
third time in June 2019, it reduced her credit limit to £825. 
I am sorry that Miss M has experienced difficulties repaying her account, but I dont think it 
would have been reasonable for SDFC to have simply stopped providing credit to Miss M 
and I havent seen anything which makes me think SDFC failed to treat her positively or 
sympathetically when her account fell into arrears. On the basis of what Ive seen, I cant 
fairly conclude that SDFC acted unfairly towards Miss M in some other way. 
SDFC has offered to remove any adverse information about Miss Ms account from her 
credit file. I think this is a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances and I dont think 
SDFC should be asked to do anything more. Miss M should contact SDFC to arrange this, if 
she decides to now accept this offer.
I know Miss M will be disappointed by my decision. Id like to reassure her that Ive thought 
carefully about everything that both she and SDFC have told us and Ive reviewed all the 
information that has been provided about this matter. Having done so, I am not upholding 
the complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman