DRN-3015106
The complaint
Mr G says Loans 2 Go Limited gave him a loan that was unaffordable and charged interest 
at a rate that was higher than allowed.
What happened
Mr G took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go on 31 December 2019. It was 
for £250 and the monthly repayments were £57.14. The total repayable was £1028.52. 
Mr G says Loans 2 Go didnt check he could afford the loan, and the interest rate was too 
high - and more than the government allows.
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. She said Loans 2 Go hadnt 
completed proportionate checks and had it done so it ought to have realised the loan was
most likely not sustainably affordable for Mr G. But she explained that the interest rate cap 
Mr G was referring to only applies to high-cost short-term credit which is defined as 
borrowing with a term of 12-months or less. And so was not relevant in this case.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying, in summary, its checks were proportionate given the size of
the loan and the results from Mr Gs credit check.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr G required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr G. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr G. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Gs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr G before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It completed income verification
with a third party to check his minimum income and adjusted his declared expenditure to 
ensure it was reasonable. It checked Mr Gs credit file to understand his existing monthly 
credit commitments and credit history. I cant see it asked about the purpose of the loan. 
From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr G had sufficient disposable income 
to afford the loan.
It argues that given the value of the loan and the fact Mr Gs credit file showed he had 
always been up-to-date with his credit repayments, or had no record any defaults 
there was no reason to complete further checks. And to do so would have been
treating Mr G unfairly.
I think the initial checks Loans 2 Go carried out were proportionate given the size and term 
of the loan, but I dont think it reacted appropriately to the information it gathered. Mr G was 
applying for a loan over a term of 18 months and although the monthly repayments were low 
as a percentage of his income, Loans 2 Go needed to be sure he would be able sustainably 
repay the loan. 
It knew from his credit file that he had taken out four payday loans between September and 
December 2019; he had multiple current accounts, two of which were at their overdraft limit; 
and two credit cards that were at their limit and had only been recently opened. So whilst his 
total indebtedness wasnt significantly high at £1977 and as the lender points out he was up-
to-date on all his accounts, I think there were indications that his finances were under 
increasing pressure. I am not saying that this meant Loans 2 Go should have decided at that 
point not to lend to Mr G, but it should have prompted the lender to make further checks to 
independently verify Mr Gs overall financial situation.I have looked at copies of Mr Gs bank statements and payslips to see what better checks 
would have shown. Im not saying Loans 2 Go needed to have done this, but its one way to 
understand what a fuller financial review might have shown.
Had it checked his actual income it would have seen that his average salary in the three 
months prior to application (discounting his December bonus) was £754.63. Given Loans 2 
Go has told us it calculated Mr Gs monthly expenditure to be £798.58 had it completed 
better checks just on Mr Gs income it would have to have concluded the loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr G. 
But in addition, the bank statements show Mr G was reliant on payday loans in the months 
prior to his application. In addition to the four loans the lender could see on the credit check, 
Mr G had taken out three further high-cost loans between October and December 2019. And 
the value the loans steadily increased from the first at £80 in September to £400 in 
December 2019. 
So I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned that Mr G was in a cycle of taking out 
high-cost loans to repay other high-cost debt - and giving him a further loan would only 
extend this. I think it ought then to have realised there was a high risk Mr G would be unable 
to sustainably repay this loan without borrowing again or suffering some kind of financial 
detriment. This was what Loans 2 Go needed to check to meet its regulatory obligations as 
CONC 5.2A.12(R) states:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
 (1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open end
agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following: (a) the customers income; (b) income
from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income received
by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in so
far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make
repayments under the agreement; and/or (c) savings or other assets where the customer
has indicated clearly an intention to repay (wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory
obligation to make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers
financial situation.
So, in summary, as a responsible lender I dont think Loans 2 Go would have made the
same lending decision had it carried out proportionate checks. It would have realised there 
was a high risk the loan was not sustainably affordable for Mr G. 
It follows I think Mr G has lost out as result of Loans 2 Gos decision.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Mr G says Loans 2 Go charged a higher rate of interest 
than it was allowed to. But as the adjudicator explained the price cap Mr G is referring to 
applies only to high-cost borrowing with a term of up to 12 months.  
So I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Mr G unfairly or 
breached industry practice regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and 
charges will be refunded as Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr G
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mr Gs loan account will result in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint and Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman