DRN-2713934
The complaint
Ms S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision rather than any other business.
What happened
Ms S bought the policy in 1996 over the phone, seven months after taking out the store card 
itself. The PPI covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Ms S and AXA a provisional decision on 22 February 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
This sale was well over two decades ago, so its rather unsurprising that there isnt still a 
record of the call involved. Indeed, under data protection rules AXA were required to dispose 
of Ms Ss data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for AXA to have misled or unfairly pressured Ms S 
into having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what AXA did here. Nor have 
I seen any wider problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale 
was too long ago for me to reasonably require AXA to be able to produce evidence from the 
time to defend themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that AXA 
misled or unfairly pressured Ms S. I think its more likely they followed a relatively normal 
sales process and gave her a choice. Further, in this case, Ms S had already had her store 
card for over half a year before buying PPI, so she wouldve known she didnt have to buy 
PPI to get her card approved.
So on balance, I think its most likely that AXA made Ms S aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no 
longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether AXA recommended the PPI to Ms S, or not. They usually did not do so. 
But the requirements were stricter on AXA if they did recommend the policy, so to be as fair 
to Ms S as possible, Ill assume they did. That means AXA had to check that the policy was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Ms S was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and offered 
her more comprehensive cover  especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction 
of her normal pay. And she didnt have any savings or alternative insurance in place. So the 
policy could have been useful for Ms S in case she needed to claim.
It is possible that the information AXA gave Ms S about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. But as I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Ms S in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms S could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
22 March 2021. But neither Ms S nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have not found this policy to have 
been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman