DRN-2037589
The complaint 
Mrs M has complained about guarantor loans UK Credit Limited approved for her. Mrs M 
says she couldnt afford the loans and when she contacted UK Credit about being in 
financial difficulties, it wasnt helpful.
What happened 
Mrs M took out three loans between June 2016 and April 2018. The details of the loans are 
as follows:
Loan 
number Start date Amount 
(£)TermRepayment 
amount (£) End date
1 06/06/2016 3,000 24 months 191.08 16/02/2017
2 16/02/2017 4,300 36 months 190.40 24/04/2018
3 24/04/2018 10,000 48 months 379.50 Bal O/S
One of our adjudicators looked at what Mrs M and UK Credit said, and he thought Mrs Ms 
complaint should be partially upheld. He thought UK Credit didnt carry out proportionate 
checks for any of the loans and had it done so it would likely still have lent loan 1 but thought 
that it was wrong for it to have lent Mrs M loans 2 and 3.
UK Credit didnt fully accept the adjudicators opinion. It said it accepts the findings for loans 
1 and 3 but thought it didnt do anything wrong by lending Mrs M loan 2. Mrs M accepts the 
adjudicators findings but as the complaint hasnt been fully resolved, it was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Having looked at the available information, before lending any of the loans, UK Credit 
searched Mrs Ms credit file, asked her about her monthly income and expenses. UK Credit 
also called Mrs M to discuss her application and the information it already gathered about 
her ability to afford the loans.
I agree with the adjudicator that even with further checks, UK Credit would likely have found 
that loan 1 was affordable for Mrs M. I also agree that loan 3 wasnt affordable for Mrs M and 
UK Credit shouldnt have lent her that loan. Both parties agree with these findings and the 
dispute over these loans have been resolved, Ive focused my decision on loan 2.
Turning to loan 2, Mrs M rolled over the outstanding balance on loan 1 and took out further 
borrowing to make up the £4,300 borrowed for loan 2. Mrs M told UK credit that the loan was 
for her honeymoon.
The loan was to be repaid over 36 months - a longer term than loan, but the loan repayment 
was slightly less than the repayment for loan 1. 
UK Credit has provided a recording of the call it had with Mrs M before lending this loan, it 
went through the details of her financial circumstances including how the household bills are 
paid and the credit commitments it found on Mrs Ms credit file. Mrs M declared her monthly 
income as £2,100 and said she paid 25% of the household bills. Mrs M confirmed that she 
was repaying two loans, one of which was her first loan with UK Credit, and the other was a 
hire purchase. UK Credit said it worked out Mrs Ms minimum monthly repayments on her 
credit cards to be around £89  3% of the outstanding balances it says it took into her 
account from her credit file. Mrs M agreed to this during the telephone call.
Im concerned about Mrs Ms indebtedness deterioration between loan 1 and this loan. UK 
Credit could see that Mrs Ms credit balance had increased from around £5,850 at the time 
of loan 1 to around £16,127 at the time of loan 2  more than two and half times her level of 
indebtedness eight months ago. Also, the credit search completed by UK Credit shows that 
Mrs M was repaying more than 2 loans, contrary to what she told UK Credit during the 
phone call. In addition to the hire purchase and the first loan from UK Credit, from what I can 
see on the credit file, Mrs M was also repaying another loan. 
I can also see that UK Credit had Mrs Ms employment contract when it lent loan 1 and at 
that time her monthly income was less than the £2,100, she was now declaring for loan 2  
eight months later. Given this discrepancy and the increase in credit that showed on Mrs Ms 
credit file, I think UK Credit should have been looking to verify some of the information Mrs M 
provided to get a better understanding of her actual finances. As it didnt do this, I dont think 
its checks went far enough.
Mrs M has provided copies of her bank statements from time. To be clear, Ive not looked at 
bank statements because I think that UK Credit had an obligation to obtain them, Ive relied 
on Mrs Ms bank statements as they are the most accurate available representation of her 
circumstances at the time of the loan. 
Mrs M has provided a joint bank statement with her wife and so Ive only taken into account 
Mrs Ms income and the monthly expenses that she was responsible for, as this wasnt a 
joint loan. From what I can see, Mrs Ms income in the month before loan 2 was around 
£1,013. Mrs M was repaying a number of loans and credit cards. The bank statements show 
that Mrs Ms expenses including things like food, rent, utilities and regular credit commitment was around £1,200. Mrs Ms outgoings exceeded her income and she wasnt in a position to 
afford the monthly repayment of £190.40 towards loan 2. 
So had UK credit reacted to the information it had and also taken its checks further, its likely 
to have found that Mrs M couldnt sustain repaying loan 2 throughout the term and wouldnt 
have lent to her.
Mrs Ms financial difficulties
Mrs M says UK Credit was unhelpful when she told it she was experiencing financial 
difficulties, Mrs M started showing difficulties repaying loan 3 in October 2019. She spoke to 
her account handler about setting up a repayment plan in October 2019, but I cant see that 
this was implemented at the time. I can also see that Mrs M informed UK Credit that she was 
in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) in February 2020 and Mrs M has said she 
reached an agreement with UK Credit to pay £100 towards her loan.
UK Credit as a lender is expected to treat its customers positively and sympathetically when 
they are in financial difficulties and I think it ought to have been aware that Mrs M may have 
been financially struggling to repay when she discussed a potential payment arrangement 
and started to miss and delay repayments of the loan. Id have expected it to have been 
proactive with offering help to Mrs M in those circumstances.
Given that theres now still a balance outstanding on Mrs Ms account with UK Credit, Id 
expect to exercise forbearance, working with her to come to a suitable repayment plan 
taking into account her circumstances especially as it accepts it shouldnt have lent Mrs M 
loan 3. 
Putting things right 
UK credit Limited should:
Refund all interest and charges applied to loan 2. 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.
As theres an outstanding balance on loan 3, UK Credit should remove all interest 
and charges applied to the loan, treat all repayments Mrs M made as payments 
towards the capital amount. If after doing this, Mrs M has paid more than the capital, 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum the amount from the date it was paid 
to the date of settlement*.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file about loans two 
and three.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about loan 2 and 3. I require UK 
Credit Limited to put things right as set out aboveUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman