DRN-4299686
The complaint
Mr T says Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money  has unfairly declined his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In August 2021, Mr T used his Virgin Money credit card account to pay a company Ill call 
Business 1 £4,500 for his wife (Mrs T) to take a professional course.
Unfortunately, in or around March 2023, and before Mrs T had completed the course, 
Business 1 went into administration.
In March 2023, Mr T contacted Virgin Money to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA. 
He wants it to refund the full cost of the course.
In May 2023, Mr T complained to Virgin Money about the time it was taking to consider his 
claim  and Virgin Money offered Mr T £100 to say sorry for the issues [he] experienced and 
for any inconvenience caused.
Mr T subsequently referred his complaint to our service.
On 22 June 2023, Virgin Money declined Mr Ts claim under section 75. It said section 75 
doesnt apply in this case because it only applies when theres a specific arrangement in 
place between the debtor, the creditor, and the supplier. And it said that arrangement wasnt 
in place in this case.
One of our investigators initially upheld the complaint and recommended Virgin Money 
refund the full cost of the course. However, in light of further submissions from Virgin Money, 
he changed his mind, and wrote to Mr T to explain why he didnt think it was unfair for Virgin 
Money to decline the claim. Our investigator agreed that section 75 of the CCA doesnt apply 
in this case.
Mr T doesnt think this is fair  so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75(1) of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, 
in certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
However, for section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under 
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA.
Here, Mr T is the debtor and Virgin Money is the creditor. However, Business 1, which is the 
supplier, entered into an agreement with Mrs T. This means there isnt a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement within the meaning of section 12(b) or (c), so section 75 doesnt apply.
Understandably, Mr T makes the point that he and his wife manage their money together, 
and while they have separate accounts, they view their finances as one pot. And he says it 
should therefore be irrelevant that the credit card account is his name. Mr T has also 
explained that his wifes salary is paid into the joint current account from which his credit 
card account payments are made  so she has, in one sense, paid for the course herself. He 
says they only used his credit card account in this instance because Business 1 offered a 
discount if the balance was paid in full, upfront. 
Mr T has told us how he and Mrs Ts children hoped to benefit from the course, and how 
theyll be affected by the outcome of this claim and the cost of paying for an alternative 
course.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs T. Theyre out of pocket through no fault of 
their own  and I can appreciate why they dont think it should matter that Mr T paid for the 
course using his credit card account. Unfortunately, it does matter. And even though Mr Ts 
points are all well made, they dont change the fact that there isnt a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in this instance  so section 75 doesnt apply. As section 75 doesnt apply in this 
case, I dont think it was unfair for Virgin Money to decline the claim.
Separately, as Ive explained above, Virgin Money has offered to pay Mr T £100 to say sorry 
of the issues [he] experienced and for any inconvenience caused. As it offered to pay Mr T 
this money to compensate him for the way it handled his claim  and is separate to the 
outcome of the claim itself  I think Virgin Money should still pay Mr T £100, which seems to 
me to be fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think it was unfair for Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as 
Virgin Money  to decline Mr Ts claim under section 75 of the CCA, but it should pay Mr T 
£100 for any distress and inconvenience caused by the way it handled his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman