DRN-2861254
The complaint
Mr D and Mr W complain that Saga Services Limited mis-sold a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr D and Mr Ws father, who Ill refer to as Mr J to avoid any confusion, held 
buildings and contents insurance with Saga for many years.
In May 2020, Saga sent Mr J policy documents and invited him to renew it.
Mr W got in touch with Saga to let it know that Mr J had recently passed away. Mr W 
explained the property was unoccupied and only buildings insurance was required. 
Saga updated the policy documents and sent them to Mr W.
The new policy began after Mr W accepted the terms and Mr Js old policy ended.
Mr W noticed damage at the property thought to have been caused by subsidence. 
He made a claim and the insurer declined it because the property didnt cover 
damage caused by subsidence whilst it was unoccupied.
Mr W complained. He thought Saga had mis-sold the policy and the damage should 
have been covered. Saga said it had been clear about the limitations of the policy.
Our investigator thought Saga had been clear that the policy didnt cover subsidence.
Mr W disagreed. He thought the policy should have continued to provide subsidence 
cover regardless of it being unoccupied. He thought the damage may have begun 
prior to May 2020  and during the time the policy did provide subsidence cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Saga is an insurance intermediary. In summary, its role is to arrange insurance cover for its 
customers. It does this by working with a panel of insurers.
The cover is provided by a different company  the insurer, also known as the underwriter. 
The insurer is responsible for the terms of the policy and any claims made.
As the insurer is a separate company, I cant consider anything its responsible for under this 
complaint. I can only consider the things Saga is responsible for.
When arranging the policy, Saga had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. Then Mr W could make an informed choice about whether the policy was 
right for him. Ive considered whether Saga fulfilled that duty.
Ive listened to the call Mr W made to Saga in May. Saga updated the policy details, 
removed contents insurance, and generated a new premium. Mr W asked what sort of cover 
was included for the new premium.
Saga said that because the property was vacant, the cover would be limited to damage 
caused in a few specific ways. Saga listed those ways, including fire, explosion, and 
lightning. It repeated the list and said cover would be for those things and nothing else.
Mr W asked what people usually do in these situations. Saga said some people choose to 
accept the limited cover it can offer, whilst others approach brokers who can provide 
different policies. Mr W asked if Saga could continue to provide the full cover as it did before. 
Saga said it couldnt offer full cover whilst the property was vacant.
Saga sent the new policy documents to Mr W for him to decide what to do. The front page 
says, in bold, that changes have been made to the cover provided and they require 
immediate attention. The section setting out the cover includes the same limitation read out 
during the phone call. Im satisfied the impact on the policy of the property becoming vacant 
was clearly explained and sufficiently highlighted by Saga. During the call and in the policy 
documents it emphasised the limitation and set out the few specific things it covered.
Mr W says he assumed subsidence cover would continue as it was important. And as it 
wasnt mentioned during the call, he thought it was still included. Saga was clear that the 
only things the policy covered were those it listed  which didnt include subsidence. It read 
them out during the call, repeated them, and gave the same list in the policy document it 
sent to Mr W.  Im persuaded Saga was clear the policy didnt include subsidence.
Mr W also says subsidence cover ought to have continued regardless of the property being 
vacant. What to cover in the event of a property becoming vacant is a choice for each 
insurer to make  not Saga. Its Sagas role to clearly explain what the insurer has decided it 
will insure. Then its up to the customer to decide whether that suits their needs.
Im satisfied Saga was clear that policies may be able available through other brokers that 
provide greater cover. And full cover wasnt an option it provided whilst the property was 
unoccupied. So Im satisfied Saga gave Mr W enough information to understand the policy it 
was offering and make an informed choice about whether it was right for him.
Overall, Im not satisfied the policy was mis-sold. Saga discussed the limitation with Mr W 
during the call and included it clearly in the policy documents. When Mr W asked questions, 
Sagas answers were fair. Mr W understood the cover was more extensive than it was, but 
Im not persuaded Saga was responsible for this misunderstanding.
Mr W has commented about the timing of the damage and questioned whether this means 
the claim should be covered. The claim is the responsibility of the insurer, not Saga, so its 
not something I can consider here. But Mr W is entitled to make that point to the insurer.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman