DRN-4307151
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited declined a claim made on his 
income protection policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Shepherds Friendly has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say that Mr T needs to meet the policy definition of 
incapacity for a benefit to be paid. 
Incapacity means: you are not fit and able to work in your Own Occupation as a result of a 
physical or mental illness or injury
Own Occupation means: the occupation(s) you are engaged in and from which you derive 
an income at the start of your incapacity
Its for Mr T to establish that he has a valid claim under the policy, taking into account the 
above policy definitions. 
For the reasons set out below, I dont uphold his complaint. I know Mr T will be disappointed 
but overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for Shepherds Friendly to decline his claim.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Shepherds Friendly to conclude that Mr T didnt 
meet the policy definition of incapacity. Its not disputed that Mr T had been signed off 
work by his GP during the deferred period with a combination of stress, depression 
and back pain. But the medical evidence doesnt give a clear picture of how they 
specifically impacted his ability to carry out his own occupation throughout the 
deferred period. Thats whats required by the contract of insurance as set out in the 
policy terms.  
Mr T was signed off work by his GP throughout the deferred period. But that doesnt 
automatically mean the policy definition of incapacity is met. Thats because theres a 
specific policy term which Mr T needs to fulfil for a claim to be successful. 
Although he was prescribed medication, Mr T has told our investigator that hed only 
consulted his GP so he hadnt been referred to a consultant or other specialist about 
his reported symptoms. Whilst that isnt determinative, I think its relevant in this 
particular case as from the GP notes, Im satisfied that Mr Ts symptoms were largely 
self-reported. 
Further, Mr Ts GP records dont provide much insight as to why Mr T was unable to 
work in his own occupation due to his ill health. It doesnt look like he underwent any 
formal medical evaluations regarding stress and depression. And the GP notes at the 
start of September 2022 reflect that upon physical examination Mr T had full power in 
his upper and lower limbs, sensation was intact both sides, no midline vertebral 
tenderness, his gait was normal, and he was alert and content. 
So, Im satisfied that Shepherds Friendly has concluded that the overall evidence 
doesnt support Mr T having any significant cognitive or functional impairment that 
would support incapacity beyond the initial deferred period. 
In its final response letter dated February 2023, maintaining its decision to decline 
the claim, Shepherds Friendly notified Mr T that it would consider any additional 
evidence (including any occupational health reports) that he could provide explaining 
why he was unfit and unable to carry out his own occupation. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman