DRN-3657148
The complaint
Mr O complains that Post Office Ltd (the Post Office) gave him incorrect information about 
a transaction, causing him to incur a fee on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr O went to the Post Office to buy some foreign currency. He says he planned to use his 
debit card to do this. But he says that the Branch Assistant told him the transaction would go 
through as a purchase, not a cash transaction. He says they told him this meant he wouldnt 
incur any credit card fees if he used his credit card to buy the currency. Mr O went ahead 
and used his credit card. But he discovered afterwards that the transaction had been treated 
as a cash transaction and hed been charged a cash advance fee by his credit card provider. 
Mr O says he only used the credit card because of what the Branch Assistant told him and 
that hed have been better off using his debit card. He made a complaint. 
The Post Office said that the Branch Assistant had correctly told Mr O that the Post Office 
itself wouldnt make a charge. But it said it wasnt responsible for informing Mr O of any 
charges which his credit card provider would apply. It also said that, when a credit card is 
selected as the method of payment for a transaction, its system produces a prompt saying 
that a fee may be charged by the customers bank. The Post Office said that its Branch 
Assistant told Mr O this and remembered him mentioning that he was aware of the charges 
for using his credit card. It didnt uphold the complaint
Mr O wasnt happy with the Post Offices response and brought the complaint to this service. 
He said that the Post Office should pay the credit card fee as well as compensation for the 
time he has spent trying to sort out the issue. Our Investigator didnt think the Post Office 
had acted unfairly. But Mr O didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence is conflicting as to what Mr O was told by the Branch Assistant at the time of 
the transaction. Mr O says he was told that his credit card provider wouldnt charge a fee. 
The Post Office says Mr O was told his bank might charge a fee. Im making an impartial 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, Im deciding what I think is most likely to 
have happened, in light of the evidence thats available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr O has given a detailed explanation of why he chose to pay with his credit card as 
opposed to his debit card. He says he had a discussion with the Branch Assistant about the 
difference between purchases and cash transactions and that purchases wouldnt incur cash 
fees. He says he went back into the branch the day after the transaction and spoke to the 
same member of staff, who he says was surprised that the transaction had gone through as 
cash. The Post Office says that the Branch Assistant recalls a conversation in which Mr O 
mentioned credit card charges. And it says they correctly told Mr O that the Post Office 
would process the transaction as a purchase, not a cash withdrawal. 
On balance, I think there was a discussion at the time of the transaction about how the 
transaction would be processed. I find it likely that Mr O was told it would be treated as a 
purchase. I think that influenced his decision to use the credit card as he says he expected 
to earn points on the purchase.
As to the fee, I find it likely that credit card fees were discussed in general terms. But, on 
balance, I dont find it likely that the Branch Assistant told Mr O that his card provider 
wouldnt make a charge. Thats because I dont think the Branch Assistant could have known 
that. And the Post Office says that its system raises a prompt when a credit card is selected 
as the payment method, advising that a fee may be charged by the customers bank. I find it 
unlikely that a Branch Assistant would override this prompt and tell a customer that their 
credit card company wont charge a fee.
But, even if the Branch Assistant did tell Mr O that, I dont think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr O to rely on what they said. Thats because the Branch Assistant couldnt 
be expected to know the terms of Mr Os credit card agreement. Mr O was better placed to 
know that himself. Also, it seems Mr O was aware that credit card providers usually apply 
fees to certain types of transaction. So, if this was something he was concerned about, I 
think its reasonable to expect him to have checked the credit card terms himself before 
going ahead with the transaction.
Turning to the transaction itself, the Post Office says that it processed it as a transaction, not 
a withdrawal. I havent seen anything which makes me doubt that. 
Mr Os credit card provider treated the currency purchase as a cash transaction and charged 
a cash advance fee. Mr O says thats because the Post Office processed the transaction as 
cash. He has provided a document which describes the transaction type as cash. He says 
this document is an extract from his credit card statement. So I find it more likely that this is 
the categorisation applied by the credit card provider. I dont think the Post Office is 
responsible for the way in which the credit card provider categorised the transaction.
In any event, if purchasing foreign currency is something with gives rise to a fee under Mr 
Os credit card agreement, I find it likely that the fee would have arisen regardless of how the 
Post Office categorised the transaction. If Mr O is unhappy about the fee or the way the 
transaction was treated by the card provider, he should discuss that with the card provider 
direct. But Im not looking at the relationship between Mr O and his credit card provider here.  
Im only looking at the actions of the Post Office and I dont find that it did anything wrong in 
the way it processed the transaction.
As a final point, the Post Office accepts that it didnt include a paragraph in its Final 
Response Letter referring Mr O to this service. It has apologised for this mistake and 
acknowledged that the paragraph should have been included. Ive noted this in my decision 
so that Mr O is aware. But I dont find that he was negatively impacted by the paragraph not 
being included as he brought the complaint to this service anyway. So Im not going to ask 
the Post Office to do anything further about this in the context of Mr Os complaint.
I realise Mr O feels strongly about the complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont 
think the Post Office acted unfairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman