DRN-1329804
 
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of T, a limited company, that National Westminster Bank Plc 
refused to open an account for the company, and didnt call him back as it had promised to 
do.
 
What happened
Mr H is one of the directors of T. As he was starting a new business, he applied for a loan 
with NatWest, and this was approved. After he had begun the new business and had 
obtained customers and investors, he applied to NatWest for a business account for T, but 
this was refused. As a result, he says he lost some customers. He complained, saying that 
as NatWest had approved the loan it should have approved the account too. He wanted to 
know the reason why NatWest had declined to open the account. He also said that hed 
spent ten hours on the phone to NatWest trying to find out, and that the bank had not called 
him back when it had said it would.
NatWest said it couldnt tell him the exact reason for its decision. All it was prepared to say in 
its final response letter was this:
My understanding of your complaint is that:
1. You are unhappy your new business account application was rejected 
due to a marker on your name even though you had an agreement with the 
bank a few years ago and settled an outstanding loan. 
2. 
I have looked into your first issue and  although the bank is not obliged to provide 
a reason to reject your application, however in this case we have a clear indication 
as to why your application was unsuccessful. For that reason the bank has made a 
commercial decision not to offer you a new business account.
NatWest would not say more about it than that. It could find no records to verify that Mr H 
had spent ten hours on the phone, but it accepted that he had spent three hours on the 
phone and that the bank had not called him back. For that issue it refunded the cost of his 
phone calls and paid him £50 compensation. Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr H 
brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf of T.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said the bank wasnt obliged to give a 
reason, or a more detailed reason, for declining to open an account. She was satisfied that 
the bank had acted reasonably. She had asked Mr H for evidence to show that he had spent 
ten hours on the phone, but Mr H had been unable to comply. She pointed out that Mr H had 
been able to open an account elsewhere, and that it had been his choice not to do so 
immediately but to spend time continuing to pursue NatWest about the matter.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said it was inconsistent and irrational of the 
bank to give him a loan and then to decline to open an account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that it would have been more consistent if the bank had declined the loan as well as 
the account, and I can see Mr Hs point about that. But that doesnt change the fact that the 
bank was under no obligation to open an account, and had no duty to tell him why (or to tell 
him more than it did in its final response). So I cannot say that NatWest has committed an 
error, or that it should have opened an account  or that it should pay compensation for not 
doing so.
Under the rules which govern our Service (rules made by the regulator), I can only award 
compensation for inconvenience caused to a complainant, not for inconvenience caused to a 
complainants representative. In this complaint, T is the complainant and Mr H is its 
representative. A company can be inconvenienced, but in the case of its director spending 
three hours on the phone, I think that £50 is fair compensation for that. I daresay that this 
was a frustrating experience for Mr H, but I cant award him compensation for that in his own 
right. So I wont tell the bank to increase the compensation it has paid for that issue.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
T, to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman