DRN-3021785
The complaint
Mr K complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc misled him into applying for a credit card that 
charged him interest from account opening as opposed to an introductory balance transfer 
offer which he intended to take, because of their misleading website design. 
What happened
Mr K applied for a Sainsburys credit card after looking at his eligibility for balance transfer 
credit cards on a third party website. He believed that he took advantage of an introductory 
0% balance transfer. 
Mr K says he had an issue with his Sainsburys account log in details, so he hadnt been 
receiving his online statements. But later, when he checked his balance on a third party 
credit score website, he noticed his outstanding balance wasnt reducing as he thought it 
should be. 
Mr K was able to restore his access to his online Sainsburys account and says he was 
shocked to find out that he had been charged nearly £2000 interest over the previous 22 
months, so he contacted Sainsburys to find out why that was. Mr K says the call handler he 
spoke to said it wasnt a bank error and that he had applied for a money transfer and not a 
balance transfer. Mr K asked for details of the user journey and says the call handler refused 
to provide this. 
Mr K made a complaint to Sainsburys. He said he had been mis-sold a product he would 
never want and was charged nearly £2,000 interest when he was expecting to pay no 
interest. Mr K said that there is an issue of a process flow and design where a customer 
enters the Sainsburys website from the third party website he used. He asked Sainsburys 
how it was possible for him to be guided onto the wrong product online when it was clear he 
was wanting the 0% promotion. He also complained of a lack of engagement with the 
customer services department when he raised this issue.
Sainsburys replied to Mr K and said that on their website, when applying for the credit card, 
the just before you apply section confirmed any money transfer is charged interest at the 
standard cash interest rate and a fee of 4% is applied. In addition, when completing the 
application, there is a section which asks if you wish to complete a balance transfer or 
money transfer, each section also details what each of these are and also explains what 
charges are involved, or information on how this can be viewed. Sainsburys attached a 
screenshot from the website for Mr K.
Sainsburys also said that as they didnt receive communication from Mr K regarding 
problems with accessing his online account then they would assume that Mr K has access to 
his online account and statements. Sainsburys did acknowledge that the customer service 
he received on the phone call was poor and offered him £60 compensation for this. 
Sainsburys also wrote off the trailing interest from when Mr K made a payment for the 
outstanding balance in full.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She 
said that there were two options on the one credit card, one for a balance transfer and one 
for a money transfer. She said Sainsburys website showed the interest rate for money 
transfers on three occasions before Mr K would have submitted the application. In addition, 
our investigator said Mr K was sent a copy of the credit card agreement and the terms and 
conditions of the account. She said the terms and conditions show that there were two 
sections, one on the first page and one on page six where it confirms there is no introductory 
offer for money transfers, so Sainsburys had made this information available to Mr K at least 
five times. 
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He raised a number of points which 
included that at the final point of purchase, he was presented an equal choice to purchase 
two products, one of which had a damaging financial penalty. He said this error is 
predictable to happen, prevalent and causes damage to a consumer. He also said 
Sainsburys refused to be transparent and refused to share the user journey he requested. 
Mr K also said the one screen shot Sainsburys provided proves to any observer that 
Sainsburys were untruthful in their statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
As our investigator has explained to Mr K, our service can only consider how hes been 
treated and whether Sainsburys acted fairly and reasonably during the customer journey. 
Im unable to comment on Sainsburys business conduct and processes as that would be a 
matter for the regulators. 
Mr K completed the details to transfer money to his bank account, rather than another credit 
card. He didnt have the details of the other credit card (that he wanted to do a balance 
transfer to) available at the time. So he opted to transfer the money to his current account. 
And a transfer of money that can be used as cash to spend as Mr K chooses, rather than 
paying off an existing debt on another credit card isnt a balance transfer.
These are two very different options  and clearly described as that on the application 
screen. I dont think there is any dispute that Mr K knew he was doing a money (cash) 
transfer, rather than a balance transfer.
But it isnt quite as simple as that. At least not as Mr K sees it. He says the process he went 
through right up to the point of arranging the money transfer led him to believe that any 
transfer he made would be at 0% interest (subject to a fee). So its important I set out what I 
think the process involved  in other words what Mr K would have seen  and then what I 
think he should reasonably have thought he was signing up to. 
Ive thought about what Mr K has said regarding Sainsburys refusing to give him a copy of 
the user journey and then supplying him with a single screenshot. Sainsburys have admitted 
that they gave Mr K poor customer service over the phone and offered him compensation for 
this. But Im not persuaded apart from this that Sainsburys have refused to share the user 
journey. But Im satisfied they didnt send Mr K the full user journey from start to finish. Im 
glad to see our investigator has shared a 16 page document with Mr K which does show this journey, although this will be of little comfort to Mr K, as he has had to wait a long time to 
receive this information. 
But I dont think that Sainsburys have intentionally done this. I say this as I think they have 
just misunderstood his request and sent a screenshot showing that balance transfers are a 
different option to money transfers. I am persuaded that when Mr K asked for the user 
journey from Sainsburys that the single screenshot they sent him might have been clear that 
there were two separate options available for him  a balance transfer and a money transfer. 
But Im not persuaded that this screenshot alone provides clear information about the 
implications of each option.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets general principles that businesses such as 
Sainsburys must follow. Businesses must consider what information customers need, and 
communicate it in a way thats fair, clear and not misleading. Ive considered Mr Ks 
complaint with this principle in mind.
In order to see if Sainsburys have misled Mr K by giving no indication at the point of 
purchase, of the interest rate of the money transfer option, or that the money transfer and 
balance transfer were presented as equal and interchangeable, Ive looked at the full user 
journey from entering the Sainsburys website, to see if all of the relevant information is 
available for Mr K to make an informed choice before hes chosen to submit his application. 
Im persuaded that it was and Ill explain why. 
Upon entering the website, I can see a number of credit cards that Mr K can select. On each 
credit card it gives details of the different features of the credit card. On page five of the user 
journey that Sainsburys provided, and our investigator has sent Mr K, it shows a section for 
balance transfers, detailing that theres an introductory offer of 0% and then later shows a 
balance transfer fee. But this page also shows directly below this, a money transfer section. 
The money transfer section is clear that he would be charged 25.95% interest under any of 
the cards he could have selected. The website also shows that there would be a money 
transfer fee of 4%.
But this is not the only time which Sainsburys make this information available before 
submitting an application. When selecting apply now, it takes the user to a screen titled 
Just before you start (page 10 of the user journey). Here it shows under please note that 
the 0% interest on balance transfers is up to 29 months. But it also shows interest is 
charged on money transfers at the standard cash interest rate. So Im not persuaded that 
from the information that is provided here that a balance transfer and money transfer are 
interchangeable and displayed as an equal choice and that an error is predictable to happen. 
There is no indication on this page that the standard cash rate was included in the balance 
transfer rate and they are displayed as two separate options on the same credit card.
So although the difference between a balance transfer and a money transfer in relation to 
how interest is charged is not on the section where the card/account details are entered for a 
transfer, Im satisfied that the difference of these options was made available to Mr K before 
this screen so he could make an informed decision about what option he wanted to select. 
As our investigator explained, we cant tell a business where to display this information, but I 
need to see that they have made this information available to Mr K before he submitted his 
application. And Im satisfied that the difference has been made clear between these two 
options prior to submitting an application, even if it wasnt in the section that Mr K believes it 
should have been. Im aware that Mr K has spoken to a third party and has got their opinion 
of the user experience of the Sainsburys website. But for the reasons Ive already 
mentioned, Im not persuaded that the website could be considered misleading to the 
consumer.Ive also considered the contents of Mr Ks credit agreement. In bold text the credit 
agreement states A few things we would like to draw your attention to. The first line 
underneath this says Different interest rates will apply to different types of transactions 
under the Credit Agreement. This means that you will pay a higher interest rate for cash 
advances & money transfers than purchases & balance transfers.
There is also a section titled Pre contract credit agreement. Here, it states Before entering 
into the agreement you should consider the information in this sheet, and the information
contained in the Pre-Contract Information. You should also read the Credit Card Agreement 
and the General Terms and Conditions as they set out all the conditions of your credit card 
with us. The money transfer interest rate is included in this document on more than one 
occasion. So Im satisfied Sainsburys have not only made the information available to Mr K 
before he applied for the card, but also on the pre contract information and on the credit card 
agreement.
The credit agreement has been signed electronically by Mr K, dated on 16 November 2018, 
and one of the things Mr K agreed to was to be bound by this agreement and the General 
Credit Card terms and conditions. In bold text underneath it states This is a Credit 
Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you want to be legally 
bound by its terms. So I am satisfied that Mr K agreed to the terms of his credit agreement 
which showed the interest on a money transfer would be at the standard cash interest rate, 
which he entered his bank details in the money transfer section of the application. 
The money transfer interest rate is also detailed in the summary box, on the first page of the 
document. It shows that balance transfers are charged at 0% for the first 26 months and 
money transfers are charged at 0% for 0 months, with an annual rate of 25.95%. So Im 
satisfied that Sainsburys has made the differences between balance transfers and money 
transfers clear on a number of different documents including the website before he 
submitted an application, throughout the user journey.
Sainsburys have admitted that they gave Mr K poor customer service. To recognise the 
impact of the poor customer service and to recognise that he couldnt make a final payment 
over the telephone, they refunded the trailing interest and offered him £60 compensation. Im 
satisfied that this is fair and recognises the impact of the poor customer service and would 
be broadly in line with what I would have awarded had Sainsburys not upheld this part of Mr 
Ks complaint. So while it follows I wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything further to 
resolve the complaint, if they havent paid Mr K the compensation they offered him, then Ill 
require them to pay Mr K £60.
My final decision
Sainsburys Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £60 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay Mr K £60 (if they havent already 
done so). But I wont be requiring them to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman