DRN-1734016
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1997 in connection with a credit card. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold 
him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy 
of the application form and note there was a separate section for PPI. This section 
shows that Mr B ticked to take PPI. I cant see that PPI would have been applied to 
his account at this time if Mr B hadnt ticked to take it out. Mr B signed the credit 
application form. So while I appreciate what Mr B has told us about not knowing he 
had been sold PPI, the evidence I've seen doesn't support this.
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. Mr B was self-employed at the time of the sale. And while some PPI policies 
did make it harder for consumers to make a claim if they were self-employed 
compared to if they were employed, this wasnt one of those policies. And he seems 
to have had a need for the cover as he had no guaranteed alternative means of 
meeting the repayments.
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
 But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. 
Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that this is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman