DRN-4282313
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt do enough to protect her when she fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Mrs G has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator broadly for the same reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute that Mrs 
G authorised the payments from her new Revolut account. So, the starting position  
in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that shes liable for the 
transactions - even though she was the victim of a scam.
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an 
electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment to help protect its customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. And this might be where payments are significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic when compared with the normal use of the account. In 
such circumstances, it might be reasonable to expect Revolut to intervene and ask 
some questions about the intended transaction before processing.
In this case, Mrs G had only recently set up the account, and there wasnt much 
activity on the account. She has selected spend or save money as the main purpose 
of opening the account. So, this payment wouldnt have appeared unusual or 
uncharacteristic to Revolut, as it had no prior knowledge of the way Mrs G usually 
transacted.
Ive next thought about the amount itself - £4,500 followed by £5,500. This is a 
substantial amount to Mrs G. But I dont consider it to be significant enough to have 
stood out to Revolut to the extent it should have prompted further checks than it did 
(such as intervening) before the payment was made. And I note that its not 
uncommon for accounts to be opened with EMIs in order to make larger transfers 
than they would with other financial institutions. 
Revolut did stop the payment and ask Mrs G further questions via on the online chat 
before processing it  which I think was proportionate in the circumstances. Mrs G 
answered No to two questions which it now seems she reasonably ought to have 
answered Yes to. I appreciate she may have been told to do so by the scammer, but 
this made it much harder for Revolut to identify she was at risk of financial harm and 
Revolut can only reasonably give warnings based on the scam risk it identifies.
Overall, I dont think there was anything more that Revolut should have done and the 
transactions didnt appear inherently suspicious at the time based on what it knew. 
EMIs are often used differently to traditional current accounts with a bank. So, I dont 
think Revolut should have identified the payment as suspicious enough to warrant 
further checks - particularly as the payment was made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
provider.
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to help Mrs G to 
recover the funds once it was made aware of the scam, but I dont think it could as 
the payment went to a legitimate cryptocurrency provider which carried out the 
service it was required to. So, I dont think Revolut could reasonably have done more 
to recover the funds. 
I note Mrs Gs representative has suggested Revolut would have known Mrs Gs device was 
being controlled by a remote desktop application and this should have caused it concern. 
But Revolut says it would not know if a remote access application was being used and it 
does not capture this type of information. 
So, while Im very sorry about Mrs Gs loss, I dont think it was caused by a failing on 
Revoluts part.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman