DRN-3984895
The complaint
Mr E holds a legal expenses insurance policy with the National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU). Hes unhappy that his claim for legal expenses cover was 
declined. 
Any reference to NFU shall include its agents.
What happened
Mr E has over a number of years had a difficult relationship with an organisation Ill call O. 
Mr E approached NFU after being charged with an offence relating to breaching the peace. 
NFU declined cover. The prosecution of this offence appears to have been dropped.
Mr E was then arrested and charged with a new offence N. He approached NFU again. 
NFU again declined his claim. It said it was unable to provide cover as it believed it is linked 
to a previous issue with O and that the claim does not relate to the use of or driving a 
Motorised Vehicle as is required by the policy.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed with Mr E that the 
terms of the policy dont specify or exclude any specific offences, and that it was true he was 
driving at the time the offence occurred. But she thought as the alleged offence isnt 
intrinsically connected with the use of or driving of a vehicle NFU correctly declined the claim 
in line with the policy terms.
Mr E disagrees he says NFUs final response letter stated that it believes his claim is not 
covered. He says believing something is not a reason to deny or uphold anything. His policy 
states anything to do with the use or driving a motorised vehicle, nothing about a Road 
Traffic Offence. He says the previous incident was not connected in any way. He says he 
was using and driving a motorised vehicle when he was charged with this offence. He was 
driving a motorised vehicle when he was accused of following Os vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to be clear this decision relates only to NFUs decision to decline Mr Es claim 
following being charged with N. 
The policy says cover is provided for:
2) COSTS AND EXPENSES to defend an INSURED PERSON'S legal rights if an event 
leads to their prosecution for an offence connected with the use of or driving of a 
MOTORISED VEHICLE.
I think that the proper interpretation of the clause is that it is the offence itself that needs to 
be connected with the use of or driving of a motorised vehicle, it is not enough that the 
insured was driving or in his car at the time of the alleged incident. Mr E hasnt been able to 
give us details of the exact offence he has been charged with. Based on the evidence I have 
seen I am not satisfied that I can say that the offence Mr E has been charged with is 
connected with the use of or driving of a motorised vehicle. In these circumstances I am not 
satisfied that NFU was wrong to decline his claim, so I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman