DRN-3393657
The complaint and background
Ms N complained to Halifax about her overdraft facility. She said Halifax hadnt treated 
her fairly. She was unhappy with the charges and interest added to her account and that 
Halifax had closed and defaulted her account. Ms N says that Halifax told her it would 
reopen her account but then did not do as it had promised. Halifax agreed that it could 
have done more to help Ms N with her account, and offered to refund all the charges and 
interest she had incurred since August 2019, backdate the default on Ms Ns account to 
October 2019, and pay Ms N £150 to recognise any stress and inconvenience caused to 
her. Ms N remained unhappy, so she referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Ns complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Halifax 
should have realised that Ms N was struggling financially by May 2015. So she 
recommended that Halifax refund any fees or interest incurred after May 2015 and 
backdate the default so it reflected what would have happened if Halifax had started taking 
action regarding Ms Ns account in May 2015. Halifax agreed with the adjudicators findings 
and made an offer in line with what she had recommended.
The adjudicator then went on to also explain that Halifax had not acted unreasonably in 
closing Ms Ns account, ad that she could see nothing to suggest that Ms N had been told 
her account would be reopened.
Ms N remained unhappy, she maintained that Halifax had told her it would reopen her 
account and that it was unfair that her account had been closed, so her complaint was 
referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicators findings that 
Halifax acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft fees from May 2015. Halifax has 
already agreed to refund these charges to Ms Ns account to reduce the outstanding 
balance, pay any excess to Ms N with 8% interest, and backdate the default it recorded to 
reflect what would have happened if it started taking action regarding Ms Ns account in 
May 2015. In practice, this means that the default will be removed from Ms Ns credit file. 
Halifax has also confirmed that its offer to pay Ms N £150 compensation is still open to her 
to accept.
Regarding the closure of Ms Ns account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to take 
this step. I can see that Halifax sent Ms N correspondence explaining what it intended to do, 
and while I acknowledge that shes said she didnt receive some of this correspondence as 
she was living elsewhere, theres no evidence to show that Halifax was told about any 
change of address. And closing an account is one of the steps we would expect a bank to 
consider when it becomes clear that an overdraft debt is becoming unsustainable.
I also havent seen any evidence to show that Ms N was told her account would be 
reopened. What I can see is notes setting out that she was told her account would be 
recalled from the debt collection agency it had been passed to, and that she would be sent a 
welcome pack from the priority team, who she would then be able to agree a repayment plan 
with.
With all of this in mind, Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt acted inappropriately regarding the 
closure of Ms Ns account and that what it has already agreed to do regarding Ms Ns 
overdraft charges is an appropriate way to resolve this complaint.
 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ns complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ns current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from 28 May 2015 are removed.
As this will clear the outstanding balance of Ms Ns account, any extra 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Ms N along with 
8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were 
made until the date of settlement.
Halifax should also backdate any adverse information on Ms Ns 
credit file to reflect what would have happened if it had started taking 
action to assist her in May 2015.
Halifax should pay Ms N the £150 compensation it has offered for any 
distress and inconvenience caused to her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax 
must give Ms N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ns complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Halifax) should put things right in the way Ive set out above, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman