DRN-2586288
The complaint
Miss B complained that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
What happened
Miss B bought the policy in November 2003 when she took out a store card. Miss B couldnt 
remember much about the sale. AXA said that the sale took place in-store, and that Miss B 
wasnt advised to take the policy. Miss B said she wasnt aware of the PPI, and didnt need it 
as she had good employee benefits. 
The policy cost £1.50 for each £100 Miss B owed on her store card. If shed successfully 
claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid 
out 15% of what she owed on the card when she stopped working. This wouldve carried on 
until she returned to work or the balance was cleared. The policy also included life cover and 
purchase and price protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. Miss B didnt agree and so the complaint 
has come to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA sent us a copy of Miss Bs store card application. I can see that theres a section 
headed protecting your account, in which Miss B has signed  separately from her 
signature for the card  to say that she wanted the PPI. Theres nothing on the application 
form to suggest that Miss B wouldnt have been given the card without the PPI. So overall, I 
think its most likely that Miss B was aware of the PPI, had a choice about taking it and 
decided to do so. I think she probably just doesnt remember doing so as it was so long ago.
AXA didnt advise Miss B to take out the PPI, so it didnt need to make sure the policy was 
suitable for her. But it should still have given her enough information for her to decide if the 
policy was right for her.
I cant know how the salesperson explained the policy, including the things not covered. But I 
dont think Miss B would have been affected by any of these. There are basic details of the 
PPI cover on the application form, with a reference to another document giving more 
information about the cover, but I dont have a copy of that. So its possible the information 
about the cost and benefits wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
Miss B told us that, when she took out the policy, she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from 
her employer of eight weeks full pay followed by eight weeks half pay. She told us she had 
some savings, and also said that her family couldve helped out if needed. However, their 
circumstances couldve changed, so I dont think their help couldve been guaranteed. On 
balance I think Miss B could have found it difficult to make the payments on her card once 
her sick pay reduced or if shed lost her job. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful 
benefit, allowing her to use her savings for her everyday living expenses. 
Overall, although I cant say that AXA fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Miss B 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for her if she couldnt work. This means Miss B isnt worse off as a result of 
what AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman