DRN-3825239
The complaint
X complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, X has had private medical insurance with Aviva and its 
predecessor for some years. His policy renews in January of each year. On                     
2 March 2022, X contacted Aviva about a claim. He said that he was having a flare-up of 
his Crohns disease. X had been diagnosed with Crohns disease in 2006. Hed had 
surgery in 2008 and had recurring symptoms since then. 
On 2 March 2022, Aviva declined Xs claim. It said that Crohns disease is a chronic 
condition, not covered under the policy. Aviva said that this had always been the case 
but as X had previously been advised incorrectly that his policy covered flare-ups, it 
would offer X a six month transition period to either the NHS or self-funding. So, Aviva 
covered Xs surgery and treatment up to 2 September 2022.
X had surgery and his surgeon asked for a review of the histopathology from Xs surgery 
in 2008. The surgeon reported that the histopathologist said that he believed X had 
diaphragmatic disease, not Crohns disease. 
X says that Aviva had previously covered acute flare-ups of his Crohns disease several 
times. He says that his original diagnosis of Crohns disease was wrong. He complains 
that Aviva should have authorised his investigations and treatment in 2022 at the outset. 
X says that Avivas handling of his claim caused him distress. He wants Aviva to admit 
that it was wrong to decline his claim so that full cover is available in the future should a 
similar situation arise. X wants compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva had 
treated X unfairly. That was because the NHS website confirms that Crohns disease is 
an on-going, life-long condition which may have intermittent symptoms. So, a flare-up of 
Crohns disease is expected, not unexpected. That means that a flare-up of Crohns 
disease isnt caught by the exception to the exclusion in the policy. The investigator said 
that Aviva confirmed that it would reassess the claim if there was evidence that X was 
misdiagnosed. She said that it was for X to provide Aviva with evidence about the 
misdiagnosis so that it could reassess the matter. 
X didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
The investigator interpreted expected as predictable, but timing of the       
flare-ups is unpredictable. 
He had an unexpected flare-up of symptoms, so Aviva should have automatically 
covered his claim.
In fact, his flare-up wasnt caused by Crohns disease. Aviva assumed that his 
flare up was of his chronic condition and didnt investigate properly, which could 
have serious health consequences.
The exception to the exclusion in relation to unexpected acute flare-ups is in 
place so that severe, acute, and urgent deterioration can be dealt with promptly 
or a correct diagnosis can be made. 
Aviva previously covered his flare-ups but now doesnt, even though the policy 
wording hasnt changed. 
Its an oversimplification to rely on the NHS description of Crohns disease. 
Some patients with Crohns disease may have surgery and never or rarely 
experience recurrence of the disease. 
Had his Crohns diagnosis been correct, it wouldnt have recurred. 
X asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that X has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes  
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and considered. I 
trust that X will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the 
central issue, that is whether Aviva handled Xs claim fairly and reasonably.       
the relevant terms and conditions 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Exclusions from cover
Benefit will not be available for
1. Treatment
[]
b. of a chronic condition.
In particular
regular planned check ups for a chronic condition where you are likely to need 
treatmentexpected deterioration of a chronic condition which needs regular consultations, 
diagnostic tests or treatment from a specialist.
BUT
we do cover unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition until your condition 
is re-stabilised [].
A chronic condition is defined as:
A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long term monitoring through consultations, examinations,  
check-ups, and/or tests.
it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specifically trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding  Xs 
complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Its common ground that Crohns disease is a chronic condition. The central issue 
in this case is whether Aviva was at fault in relying on the exclusion in the policy. In 
determining that issue, Im looking at whether Aviva acted correctly in declining    
Xs claim in March 2022, based on the available information at that time. So, Im 
not looking at that decision on the basis of information about Xs diagnosis that 
subsequently came to light, as Aviva didnt have that information at the time.
I think that Aviva was entitled to rely on Xs previous diagnosis of Crohns disease. 
When X made the claim in March 2022 he said it was in relation to a flare-up of his 
Crohns disease. Aviva was entitled to take that at face value. Its not for Aviva to 
investigate a medical diagnosis made previously and on which the policyholder is 
seeking to rely. 
Essentially, Aviva says that Xs claim wasnt in relation to an unexpected, acute 
flare up of a chronic condition. It says that a flare up of the condition is expected, 
so its not within the exception to the exclusion in relation to chronic conditions. It 
says that Crohns disease is a lifelong condition and that surgery wont cure the 
condition, so its not covered by the policy. I think that acute flare-ups are expected in Crohns disease. I say that because the 
NHS website says symptoms may be constant or may come and go every few 
weeks or months. When they come back, its called a flare-up. X says that the 
timing of flare-ups is unpredictable, but I dont think that alters the fact that       
flare-ups are an expected feature of Crohns disease. I think Aviva is entitled to rely 
on the exclusion in the policy in relation to chronic conditions and that Xs claim 
didnt come within the exception to that exclusion.
X says that had his diagnosis of Crohns disease been correct, he wouldnt have 
had any recurrent symptoms. But Avivas notes indicate that it authorised 
investigations or treatment in 2015 and 2017. I dont think that takes us much 
further, but I mention it because X raised the point. 
X has also mentioned Avivas treatment of other chronic conditions. Ive focused on 
the claim X actually made, not claims that may be made in relation to other chronic 
conditions, so I dont mention that further. 
I appreciate that it was alarming and confusing for X to discover that his flare-ups 
werent in fact covered by his policy, even though Aviva had previously covered 
similar claims. Aviva told X that it had previously covered the flare-ups in error. In 
those circumstances, I think that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in agreeing to 
cover Xs claim for six months, to enable him to transfer to the NHS or self-fund. 
And it did that promptly, on the day X made the claim. So, X wasnt left wondering 
how to proceed.
X may wish to provide Aviva with the evidence he has in relation to his 
misdiagnosis. That wont alter the outcome here, as Aviva covered Xs claim up to 
2 September 2022 in any event, but it will ensure that Aviva has the information for 
any future claims. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Aviva treated X unfairly or 
unreasonably in its handling of his claim. It follows that theres no basis on which I 
could direct Aviva to pay X compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Xs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman