DRN-3163967
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy when they took a joint mortgage in December 1992. 
Mr and Mrs S paid a monthly amount of £24 for the policy. The benefit was split, so if either 
one of them made a successful claim on the policy, they would receive 50% of the benefit, 
which was £400 per month. This would have been paid for up to 24 months if they were too 
ill to work or for up to 12 months if they were made involuntarily redundant.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the policy was optional. And it had to get 
their consent before it added PPI to their account. 
Mr and Mrs S say they felt pressured into taking the PPI. Ive thought carefully about what 
Mr and Mrs S have said, but this is a subjective area  what one person perceives as 
pressure may be different to another. Mr and Mrs S havent provided a detailed account of 
what made them feel pressured and I cant know exactly what would have been said during 
the sale. So, without more information from Mr and Mrs S, I cant say they were pressured 
into taking the policy.
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. And what Mr and Mrs S have said isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. So, Ive had to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Weve seen a number of examples of the paperwork Halifax used around the time Mr and 
Mrs Ss policy was sold. From what I know, usually, Halifax gave its customers an option to 
take out PPI and the mortgage agreement often highlighted that it wasnt necessary to take 
any insurance from Halifax. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were aware 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. 
Mr and Mrs S say they received advice and Halifax hasnt been able to confirm this, so its 
treated the sale as though it did give advice. This means that as well as giving Mr and Mrs S 
enough information about the policy, Halifax also had to check it was suitable for them. And 
based on what Ive seen, the policy appears to have been suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the policy and they dont seem to have been affected by any 
of the terms which might have made it harder for them to claim, such as having unusual 
employment circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six months half 
sick pay, redundancy pay and death in service cover from their employers. They also told us 
they had savings and an endowment policy in place. Finally, they said they could have 
asked their family for help if necessary. 
Having thought about what Mr and Mrs S have told us about their circumstances at the time 
of sale, I dont think this means that the policy wasnt right for them. The policy would have 
paid out in addition to their employee benefits and potentially for a much longer period. And 
Mr and Mrs S could have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. I think its 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs S would have wanted to avoid spending their savings or 
ending their endowment early if they could. And while their family may have wanted to help, 
circumstances could change, which means help from family could not always be relied on. 
So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs S,.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S at the time it 
was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs S.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs S all of the other information they needed  I 
dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs S chose to take out 
the cover when they didnt have to, so they seem to have wanted it.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Ss home. 
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I 
think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs S and I dont think they lost out 
because of anything Halifax did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman