DRN-3172491
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Wise Payments Limited (Wise) handled matters surrounding the 
closure of her accounts.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
What I can  and cant  consider
Some concerns Mrs B has specifically asked us to comment on relate to the way in which 
her complaint was handled. The rules under which our service operates are set by UK 
financial regulator (the FCA) and can be found in the DISP section of the FCAs handbook. 
DISP Rule 2.3.1 explains we can only consider complaints relating to the carrying on one or 
more of the regulated or other covered activities, or any ancillary activity carried on by 
the firm in connection with them. Complaint handling doesnt fall within that. Its not a 
complaint about a financial service, its distinct from that. So, whilst I can consider the 
level of service provided by Wise in relation to the account closure, I cant consider 
Mrs Bs concerns that are solely about how Wise handled her subsequent complaint. 
Such as the lack of response/acknowledgement from Wises CEO.
Merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Before setting out my reasons for this, Ill 
clarify that, whilst Ive read and considered all the submissions in their entirety, I wont be 
responding in the same level of detail. It isnt my role to respond to each and every point 
made, and I hope the parties wont consider this a discourtesy. In keeping with our role for 
quick and informal resolution, Ill be concentrating on the crux of the issue.
In line with the terms and conditions of the account, Wise can suspend an account if 
it has reasonable concerns about: 
a) the security of your Wise Account; or 
b) suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of your Wise Account
As Mrs B is aware, Wise isnt expected to disclose its full criteria for this, for 
commercial and security reasons. But shes aware the accounts were closed 
following her reporting an unexpected micro-payment into her US dollar (USD) 
account. Having reviewed the full circumstances, Im satisfied it was fair for Wise to 
apply the account terms as it did  as it had reasonable concerns about the security 
of the account. 
Whilst I understand why it was frustrating that Wise didnt give Mrs B more notice, 
and that it then closed the account, Im not minded to say this was an error which 
caused her to lose out. Wise was acting to protect her against a risk it reasonably 
perceived. 
Im also mindful that Wise only took the step to close the account after advising 
Mrs B to contact Etsy, the company which the payment came from, to find out more 
about what had happened  in case, for example, an Etsy account had fraudulently 
been set up in her name. When Mrs B wouldnt do this, I consider it reasonable that 
Wise therefore considered there to be an unresolved risk with her accounts, and 
that it was therefore fair and proportionate to close them. 
Even if I were to conclude that Wise had acted too hastily, Id then need to consider 
what the impact of this was on Mrs B. I wouldnt consider it appropriate to direct 
Wise to reopen the accounts, as its within Wises legitimate commercial discretion 
to decide who its customers are, and on what terms  so long as this isnt unlawful 
discrimination (which theres no suggestion of here). That includes its requirement 
that, due to the previous suspension/closure, Mrs B will need to use a different 
email address. So the main impact Id be considering would be the disruption 
caused by the lack of notice.
Wise promptly offered to transfer the funds to another account. Whilst this took a 
couple of weeks to complete, that was because it was waiting on account details 
from Mrs B. It wouldnt agree to her request to transfer the funds to her partner  as 
is common industry practice for security reasons. She also had access to 
other/another account(s) in the meantime. Whilst shes explained she needed to 
open another account for foreign currency, her USD Wise account doesnt appear to 
have been used regularly or to have a balance (aside from the disputed micro-
payment). Overall, even if I did find Wise at fault for not giving notice, Im not 
persuaded the level of impact warrants compensation. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs B, who clearly feels strongly about whats 
happened. But for the reasons set out above, Im not persuade Wise needs to take further 
action to resolve her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman