DRN-2656705
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Motorpoint Limited mis-sold a guaranteed asset protection (GAP) 
policy.
Reference to Motorpoint includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr M bought a car, which he intended to use for his charitable work as an emergency 
responder. At the time he bought the car he also bought a GAP policy. Mr Ms car was 
damaged in an accident while on an emergency call. He claimed on his GAP policy for the 
difference between his motor insurers settlement for the loss of his car and the amount hed 
paid for it, which was around £4,800. But the underwriter of the GAP policy said it didn't 
cover emergency vehicles. 
Mr M complained to Motorpoint. It said it didn't know Mr M intended to use his car as an 
emergency vehicle. But as the GAP policy was of no use to him it refunded the premium. I 
understand Mr M hasn't cashed the refund cheque.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigator's looked 
into it. She thought it was likely Mr M had said he would be using the car for his charity work, 
but Motorpoint recorded hed be using the car in a private capacity. She said Motorpoint 
should pay Mr M £100 compensation for the impact of its error.
Mr M didn't think that went far enough so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it and my award to put things right will be the same as 
our investigator recommended. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ms made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes said carefully. But I don't intend to address each point he's raised 
individually. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of his 
complaint.
Mr M said the dealer who sold him his car knew full well he intended to use it for his charity 
work in an emergency capacity. And he said the car he traded in had clear evidence to show 
its emergency use, such as having had emergency lights fitted to it previously. In contrast 
Motorpoint has said that as far as it was aware the car would only be used for everyday road 
use.
Clearly I wasn't there when the car was sold. So I can't say with any certainty exactly what 
was discussed about Mr Ms intended use of it. The only reference I can find to what Mr M 
intended to use the car for in the relevant paperwork is in a demands and needs statement 
for a warranty which Motorpoint recommended. That asks if the car would be used for any 
purpose that could be considered to be outside of normal private road use. And its 
recorded the answer to that as no. So that would indicate Motorpoint wasn't aware that 
Mr M intended to use the car as an emergency vehicle at that point. 
In contrast Mr Ms shown us an email he sent to Motorpoint around a week after he picked 
up the car. In that he asks if Motorpoint would like to sponsor the costs of fitting emergency 
lights to the car. So it's clear that at some point Mr Ms made Motorpoint aware that the car 
would have emergency lights fitted in connection with his charity work. And in the same 
email he said he responded to over 200 emergencies each year. So it seems likely Mr M had 
previously told Motorpoint about his charity work and that he intended to use the car for that 
purpose. So, even if the emergency usage wasn't obvious at the point Motorpoint initially 
sold Mr M the car and the GAP policy, it should have become aware Mr M intended to use 
the car for his emergency work shortly afterwards. And at that point I think Motorpoint should 
have realised that, as the GAP policy didn't cover emergency vehicles, it wouldn't be suitable 
for him. But it seems Motorpoint didn't identify that and didnt advise Mr M that the policy was 
of little benefit to him.
Motorpoint's said it emailed the policy documents to Mr M. So he could have read the policy 
exclusions himself, which show the policy doesn't cover emergency vehicles. Mr Ms said he 
hadnt ever received the policy documents. He said Motorpoint had sent the documents to 
his wifes email address and not his - the suggestion being thats why he hadnt read them. 
He said this was Motorpoint's error and it might constitute a breach of data protection rules. 
I need to be clear that it's not my role to determine if theres been a breach of data protection 
rules. That would usually be a matter for the Information Commissioners Office. And I don't 
think I can fairly determine why Motorpoint recorded Mr Ms email address as being his 
wifes. Motorpoint said it would only have used the email address Mr M gave to it. Mr M said 
that both himself and his wife have been customers of Motorpoint over a number of years 
and its likely it brought up his wifes email address by mistake. That might well be the case. 
But I note that Mr M bought the car well over three years ago and there could have been 
other reasons why, at the time, it was more convenient to use his wifes email address, 
which he can't recall now. But even if thats not the case, I think most motorists are aware of 
the importance of checking insurance policy documents to ensure the cover is suitable. So if 
Mr M didn't receive the policy documents it's not clear why he didn't ask Motorpoint to send 
him those again.
But its apparent that at the time Mr M claimed on his GAP policy he thought the policy would 
cover him. And I accept he remained unaware that his car was excluded from cover until that 
point. So I can imagine how disappointed he was when he found out he wasn't covered. 
And, as I've said above, it's likely Mr M gave Motorpoint enough information for it to realise 
he would be using the car for emergency response purposes. In those circumstances it 
should have realised the GAP policy wouldn't have been suitable for him. But because it 
didn't do so Mr M suffered the disappointment of having his claim refused. 
Although it doesn't accept it mis-sold the policy, Motorpoint acknowledged the policy wasn't 
suitable for Mr M and refunded his premium. I understand Mr M hasn't cashed that cheque 
but he may wish to do so now. If its no longer presentable because of its date then he 
should return it to Motorpoint and ask it to issue a replacement. Mr M thinks Motorpoint should compensate him with a sum equivalent to what his GAP 
policy could have paid. But I don't think that would be fair. It might help if I explain that 
exclusions for emergency vehicles are in every GAP policy I'm aware of. And I'm not aware 
of a GAP policy readily available on the market - either at the time Mr M bought it or now - 
that will cover emergency vehicles. So I think that, even if Motorpoint had told Mr M the 
policy wouldn't cover him, or hed read the policy documents and identified that for himself, 
he would have struggled to find a suitable GAP policy that would cover him. It follows that 
while I think Motorpoint contributed to Mr Ms disappointment, I don't think it needs to 
compensate him because the GAP policy didn't pay out. 
That said, given I think Motorpoint could have helped to prevent Mr Ms disappointment, I 
think it should pay him £100 compensation to address that. I need to be clear that the 
compensation is not a fine or penalty - I don't have the powers to do that. And its not a sum 
based on Motorpoint's turnover or as a proportion of what the GAP claim could have paid. 
Instead its a reflection of - and redress for - Mr Ms disappointment. And I think £100 is a fair 
and reasonable sum in the circumstances, as it's in line with awards we make in other cases 
of similar seriousness.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Motorpoint Limited to pay 
Mr M £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman