DRN-4379704
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited did not accept a debit card payment 
to his pension account and failed to inform him of what he needed to do to make future 
contributions to his pension using his debit card.
What happened
Mr D was a member of a Group Personal Pension Scheme. In 2022 he sent a contribution 
payment to his pension by way of cheque. When he noticed that the cheque had not been 
encashed, he believed it may have got lost in the post. So, he stopped it. He informed Aviva 
accordingly but it did not note its records and subsequently presented the stopped cheque 
for payment.
Mr D then tried to make a payment online, using his debit card. He got a message stating 
that his payment had been unsuccessful as he had not passed the standard checks. He 
was asked to confirm his identity and he submitted his passport at the end of November 
2022. Despite this Mr D says that Aviva has still refused to accept his debit card payments. 
He had to make the contribution by making a BACS payment, which Aviva accepted.
Mr D complained to Aviva. He thought Aviva should permit him to make a debit card
payment. He said Avivas failure to accept debit card payments worried him because it 
suggested that Aviva might regard him as someone who was laundering funds.
Aviva investigated his complaint. It said that although it offered its customers the option to 
make payments by debit card this wasnt something that had been included in the terms and 
conditions for Mr Ds policy. It said it was required to carry out checks before accepting 
payments. It acknowledged that where a debit card payment couldnt be progressed 
because the standard checks hadnt been successful, its website couldve been clearer 
about the option to pay by BACS. Aviva said it had amended its website to make this clearer.
Aviva apologised for its extremely poor communication when it hadnt noted its records after 
Mr D told it he had stopped the cheque payment. It also apologised for the issues he had 
experienced with its website. It offered to pay him £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr D did not accept Avivas offer. He said that although it had apologised and amended its 
website, he thought he should be able to make contributions using his debit card and he 
wanted to know what hoops he needed to jump through to do so.
Aviva explained to Mr D that debit card payments required more detailed checks. It said it 
couldnt tell him why the standard checks had not been successful in his case. But it said 
that it may potentially be because his personal details (e.g. his full name, date of birth, 
address or bank details) didnt match what it held on its records. Aviva said hed need to 
check that his details were up to date with his bank.
Mr D disagreed with what Aviva said. He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought Aviva had offered alternative ways for 
Mr D to make contributions to his pension and had suggested that he double-check the 
information held by his bank and cross reference this to the details held by Aviva. He didnt 
think Aviva was able to provide Mr D with an explanation as to why his debit card payment 
was unable to progress. Aviva had admitted extremely poor communication and offered 
£100 by way of compensation. Our investigator thought this was fair in all the circumstances.
Because Mr D didnt agree with what our investigator said, his complaint was passed to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision in which I said.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he should be able to make payments to his 
pension by debit card and hes concerned that Aviva may hold incorrect data about 
him on its records.
Avivas MyAviva webpages state that it can accept contribution payments by 
cheque, by BACS transfer and by debit card. Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
for the pension which Aviva has provided and these are silent about methods of 
payment. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Mr D to say he thinks he should be 
allowed to make payments by debit card, when thats one of the options available on 
the MyAviva webpage.
Avivas records confirm that Mr D attempted, on a number of occasions, during the 
period between 12 November 2022 and 16 February 2023 to make a payment to his 
account by debit card. Each attempt was unsuccessful.
When considering whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably we look at the 
particular circumstances that applied. We also take into account the law, codes and 
good practice.
Ive looked firstly at the information Aviva provided to Mr D when he tried to make the 
payments. Aviva has provided screenshots of the information presented. Before the 
payment could proceed Mr D had to agree to certain statements including the 
following:
Well use the information you have provided to perform anti-money 
laundering and fraud checks. We check your identity electronically. To do this, 
we use a third-party company to carry out the check. Itll leave a footprint on 
your credit file, but since its not a credit check, it wont affect your credit 
rating.
He was asked to provide details about himself and the proposed payment. And a 
further information notice was presented to him which stated:
When will my payment appear in my account?
We may need to conduct standard financial crime checks against the 
information youve given us in line with Government legislation. We should 
complete everything and have the funds showing in your pension account in 
up to 10 working days.So, having considered the information that was provided to Mr D, Im persuaded 
Aviva did explain to him that before it could accept the payment it would ask a third 
party to carry out various checks. These checks are required to comply with legal and 
regulatory obligations. Aviva did not guarantee that the payment would be accepted.
Aviva has confirmed to our service that it uses automated decision making (ADM) to 
carry out the checks that are referred to. ADM is a process used to make a decision 
by automated means  without any human involvement. Avivas Privacy Statement 
(available online) provides further information:
Where we make an automated decision using Personal Information which 
has a legal or substantially similar effect, you have certain rights in relation to 
that decision. In particular, you have the right to receive meaningful 
information about the logic involved in relation to the decision, the right to 
human intervention and the right to obtain an explanation of the decision and 
challenge it.
(My underlining added for emphasis)
Ive then looked at data protection legislation and the information on the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) website. This also provides that individuals have certain 
rights where a decision made using ADM produces an adverse legal effect or 
significantly affects the individual.
Although I can understand why Mr D was upset when he wasnt able to make a 
contribution to his pension account using a debit card, Im not persuaded, on 
balance, that this produced an adverse legal effect or significantly affected him. I say 
that for mainly the following reasons:
Aviva told him he could still make a payment to his pension account by 
cheque or by BACS transfer.
He was able to make a payment using BACS  and it was processed without 
any issues.
So, Mr D wasnt prevented from exercising his right to make contributions to his 
pension.
Mr D told us hed already referred this matter to the ICO. Hes entitled to do that and 
if hes concerned that Aviva may have breached data protection legislation he can 
ask the ICO to investigate further.
Mr D has raised concerns about the information he thinks Aviva holds about him. He 
thinks it may have categorised him as a money launderer. I can understand why
Mr D is concerned about these matters. But Ive noted that when he made the 
payment by BACS the payment was accepted without any issues. Aviva says it uses 
manual checks in respect of BACS payments and it was satisfied, after making those 
checks, that the BACS payment could be accepted.
In its final response letter Aviva speculated about the reasons why the debit card 
payment may not have been accepted. It acknowledges that this was merely 
speculation. It now says it doesnt know the information that the third party company 
used to make the checks and, in any event, the data used was not Avivas data. That 
would appear to be consistent with the fact that the BACS payment was successful.As mentioned above, our role is to decide whether a business has acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances of the case.
Aviva apologised for what had happened. It said the issues Mr D was facing may 
have been caused by the navigation on its website being unclear. Aviva also sent 
Mr D a cheque for £100 by way of apology for its poor communication.
Having considered everything, I think the actions that Aviva offered to take here were 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It accepted that the navigation of its 
website couldve been better. It subsequently improved the navigation of its website 
so that when a debit card payment was unsuccessful, Mr D was diverted 
automatically to the BACS process. Mr D has acknowledged that the website has 
been updated. Mr D was able to make the contribution by BACS.
Aviva also offered to pay Mr D £100 by way of compensation for what happened. I 
think thats fair and reasonable. If Mr D wants to accept that offer he should contact 
Aviva. I dont expect it to have to do anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Aviva responded to my provisional decision. It said it had no further information to add.
Mr D did not respond to my provisional decision. 
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. 
I havent received any new or further information that persuades me to change my view, as 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman