DRN-4258228
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains about the way Vitality administered its group private 
medical insurance policy.
Mr L represents A.
What happened
In November 2021, A took out a group private medical insurance policy through a broker, 
which was underwritten by Vitality. The policy beneficiaries were all covered under Vitalitys 
Countrywide list.
Subsequently, in September 2022, Mr L contacted Vitality as he wished to add a new 
beneficially, who Ill call Mr K, to As group scheme. During the call, Mr L asked about cover 
options and he was told that the rest of the beneficiaries were set-up on the Countrywide list 
and that therefore, Mr Ks policy should be set-up on the same basis. Mr L asked what would 
happen if Mr K was undergoing treatment with a medical professional who wasnt on the 
Countrywide list and he was told that this would be referred to the underwriting team.
A ultimately applied for Mr K to take out cover on a medical history disregarded basis, with
the Countrywide list. The application form made no reference to any treatment Mr K was
undergoing, or with which practitioner.
After Mr K had been added to As policy in late September 2022, A made a claim on his
behalf. However, the claim was for treatment at a hospital which wasnt on the Countrywide
list. The terms of As policy stated that Vitalitys liability would be limited to 60% of the costs
of treatment at a hospital which wasnt on the Countrywide list.
Mr L therefore asked Vitality whether Mr Ks list could be changed. But Vitality told Mr L that
the list could only be amended at renewal, which was due at the end of November 2022. In
October 2022, Mr L enquired whether the hospital list could be amended for all of As policy
beneficiaries at renewal. However, Vitality ultimately told him that this wouldnt be possible
as one of its members already had a claim in progress.
Unhappy with Vitalitys position, Mr L complained on As behalf. He felt Vitality hadnt asked
him to check with Mr K where he was undergoing treatment and the importance of ensuring
that Mr Ks application was for the appropriate hospital list. He also felt it had provided him
with misleading information about whether or not the policy could be upgraded at renewal
and had delayed giving him a clear negative answer until the policy had already renewed.
He asked us to look into As complaint.
Our investigator thought As complaint should be upheld. He considered that Vitality had
advised A to add Mr K to the policy and that therefore it should have ensured the policy was
suitable for him. As Mr K had been at an off-list hospital, the investigator didnt think the
policy had been right for him. He felt Vitality ought to have stressed the importance of
checking the hospital list when Mr L had called regarding the new application. He
recommended that Vitality should agree to cover Mr K on the upgraded hospital list,
backdated from the date he was added to the policy; that it should deal with any claims that
had been made as if Mr K had had the upgraded list cover from the start and that it should
pay £200 for As inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 June 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
intend to uphold As complaint. I said:
The addition of Mr K to the policy
Vitality didnt sell this policy to A  it was sold, in November 2021, by a broker. So Vitality
wasnt responsible for any advice given about the policy when the contract was sold. The
investigator has considered this complaint as if Mr Ks application for addition to the group
scheme was a new, advised sale by Vitality and assessed it in line with the regulatory
obligations which apply to the advised sale of insurance policies. However, this wasnt a new
sale  A wished to add Mr K to its existing group scheme. So I dont agree that Vitality
recommended Mr K should join the existing policy, or that it needed to check the cover level
was suitable for him.
However, Vitality did still need to give A clear, fair and not misleading information about the
policy when it was dealing with Mr Ls enquiries. And, on balance, while I think it could have
been clearer in some regards, overall, I think it gave Mr L enough clear information about the
way the policy worked.
Ive listened carefully to a call between Mr L and Vitality in September 2022. Mr L asked a
direct question about the level of cover Mr K would need. The call handler correctly told Mr L
that the scheme was set-up with Countrywide list cover. They indicated that Mr Ks
application should be completed with the same hospital list. In my view, the call handler
could have been a little more proactive in explaining that while As existing policy
beneficiaries all had Countrywide cover; this didnt mean it couldnt offer upgraded lists to
new beneficiaries who were being added to the policy.
With that said, Mr L went on to ask what would happen if Mr K needed treatment which
wasnt on the Countrywide list. The call handler told Mr L that the underwriter would look at
the application form and would be in contact if this was the case to discuss a way forward. In
my view, this didnt amount to indicating that Mr Ks claims would be covered as if they were 
on an upgraded list.
And Mr L has consistently told us that he knew Mr K was undergoing treatment under his old
employers group scheme at the time he looked into adding Mr K to the policy. Hes also
stressed how important it was to Mr K and to A to ensure that Mr K was fully covered before
switching from his old employers scheme to the Vitality policy. It seems to me then, based
on Mr Ls question to the call handler, that he was reasonably aware of the possibility that Mr
Ks treatment might not be covered by the Countrywide list. So before going ahead and
completing the application form, I think it might have been reasonable for Mr L to check with
Mr K what treatment hed undergone and where, to allow him to ensure that he applied for
the correct hospital list.
Initially, A completed a continued personal medical exclusions switch application form to
add Mr K to the policy. It had ticked to say that it wanted Mr K to be added to the
Countrywide list. I think the hospital list option was set out clearly and prominently. This form
also included a table for an applicant to complete with details of any existing medical
conditions, any treatment, investigations or surgery theyd undergone and when. This table
was left blank and there was no indication as to the previous claims Mr K had made or
where hed undergone treatment. When this form was sent to Vitality, it appears Mr Ks old
group scheme policy certificate was sent with it. Mr K had previously held medical health
disregarded cover. So Vitalitys underwriters got in touch with Mr K to ask him to completethe relevant medical health disregarded form instead. It seems to me then that had Mr K or A
included details of his previous treatment on the application form, Vitality wouldve been in a
position to notice, prior to his addition to the policy, that Mr K actually likely required a
different hospital list.
When the second form was received, this too stated that A wished to add Mr K to the policy
on the basis of the Countrywide list. Again, there was nothing on the form which I think ought
to have put Vitality on notice that the Countrywide cover wouldnt provide full cover for Mr K
and to accordingly give A the opportunity to amend the application. On that basis, I think it
was fair and reasonable for Vitality to set-up Mr Ks cover with the Countrywide list hospital
option. And, in the round, I dont think it provided unclear or misleading information.
Did Vitality cause unreasonable delays in letting A know that the policy couldnt be
upgraded?
The evidence Ive seen indicates that Mr L was told, within a matter of days of his addition to
the policy, that the full cost of Mr Ks treatment wouldnt be covered, because the hospital
wasnt on the Countrywide list. Understandably, Mr L looked into the possibility of upgrading
Mr Ks cover immediately; but was told this would only be possible at renewal. Its clear Mr L
was told on a number of occasions that hospital lists (including for all scheme beneficiaries)
could be upgraded at renewal. The policy terms and conditions make it clear that policies
can only be changed at renewal, so I dont think Vitality gave Mr L misleading information on
this point.
However, the policy was due to renew on 30 November 2022. And Vitalitys notes indicate
on 24 October 2022, over a month before renewal, that its call handler checked with the
underwriters and told Mr L that Vitality wouldnt be able to upgrade the hospital lists for the
group beneficiaries because Mr K already had a claim open. This was reiterated to Mr L on
7 November 2022  again, a few weeks prior to the renewal date. And it was restated again
in Vitalitys final response to As complaint on 16 November 2022.
I asked Vitality to provide me with evidence to show that it wont upgrade a group scheme
hospital list at renewal in these circumstances. Its provided me with a statement from an
underwriter, which I accept demonstrates that it wont upgrade hospital lists in these 
circumstances. Im afraid Im unable to share this with A, as its confidential.
Overall, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably conclude that Vitality unreasonably delayed
in telling A that the hospital lists couldnt be upgraded until after the policy had already
renewed. In my view, A had been made aware of Vitalitys position and this had been
restated more than once ahead of renewal. Therefore, I think A was given an opportunity to
look elsewhere for alternative cover - which included cover for the hospital lists it was
seeking - if it wished to do so.
On balance, I dont think Vitality gave A unclear or misleading information and I think it fairly
declined to upgrade As policys hospital list at renewal in line with its underwriting criteria.
So I dont find its treated A unfairly and it follows that Im not planning to tell it to take any
action.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Vitality didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr L, on behalf of A, disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised his 
responses:A hadnt taken out the policy through a broker in 2021  it had been taken out directly 
with Vitality;
Thered never been any intention on A, Mr L or Mr Ks part not to get the application 
right. Mr L was happy for A to pay higher premiums for the right level of cover;
Mr L felt it was Vitalitys job to ensure a customer got the right cover, as the expert in 
the situation. Hed tried to draw out the relevant information through numerous 
conversations with Vitality;
Mr L had clearly told Vitality that Mr K needed to join the policy to ensure his 
treatment was covered  and it hadnt done this. Mr L provided a copy of an email 
hed sent Vitality attaching Mr Ks application form and policy certificate, which stated 
that if it needed more information, it should contact Mr K directly;
Mr K hadnt needed to fill in the table on the application form which Id referred to in 
my provisional decision. Thats because due to the size of As business, those 
particular questions werent applicable;
Vitality had repeatedly told Mr L that the policy could be upgraded, but this hadnt 
been the case;
Mr L felt Id asked for more information late in the day which had impacted how Id 
decided the complaint  he didnt think whether A had been adversely affected or not 
should affect the outcome;
When Mr L had previously answered my questions about what A wouldve done 
differently, he hadnt answered this from Mr Ks perspective  as Mr K had been the 
affected employee;
Mr L found it hard to understand why I hadnt agreed with our investigator and felt I 
was setting a precedent which would allow an insurer to repeatedly provide incorrect 
information and then backtrack on it;
A was only asking for Mr K to be moved to an upgraded list  the cost would be 
microscopic to such a large company;
Mr L felt that if Vitality spent more money on its documentation and staff training than 
on advertising, A would not be in this position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr L (acting on behalf of A), Ive decided not 
to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr L that while Ive carefully considered all of the submissions hes 
made on As behalf. But I havent commented on each individual point hes made within this 
decision and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues.
It's clear that Mr L is very disappointed that I have reached a different conclusion to our 
investigator. In line with our process, our investigator issued his opinion and both parties had 
an opportunity to respond. Either party had the right to request an ombudsmans decision if 
they didnt agree with our investigators view. Vitality didnt agree with the investigators 
recommendations and so, the complaint was referred to me. As my opinion of the complaint 
differed from the investigators, in accordance with our rules, I wrote to both parties to 
explain my reasoning and to give both parties an opportunity to provide new evidence or 
comments ahead of making a final decision. Im satisfied that both A and Vitality have had 
the chance to send me any evidence they wished me to consider to allow me to make an 
independent and impartial decision on the merits of the complaint. It's also important I make it clear that our decisions dont set precedent. Each individual case is assessed on its own 
specific facts and evidence. 
Mr L says that the 2021 policy wasnt taken out through a broker. On the other hand, Vitality 
has told us that As policy was sold through a broker. I dont think this is material to the 
complaint though. I say that because at the point A applied to add Mr K to the policy; the 
contract was already in place. Vitality didnt advise A to add Mr K to the existing contract and 
therefore, it remains the case that it didnt need to carry out an assessment of his demands 
and needs, or ensure it was suitable for him.
But Vitality did still need to give A clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
and the way it worked. As I explained, Ive listened to the calls between Mr L and Vitality. Its 
clear that Mr L did want to try and ensure that Mr K would have the cover he needed and 
there was nothing to suggest that A was trying to cut costs. Ive also looked at the 
application form again and I agree that given the financial and other characteristics of As 
business, it does appear that Mr K wasnt required to complete the table I referred to 
previously.
However, I still think that, overall, Vitality did give A clear information about the hospital lists 
and how they worked. As Ive said, given Mr L asked Vitality a direct question about what 
would happen if Mr K needed off-list treatment, it still appears that he was aware of the 
possibility that Countrywide cover might not be right for Mr K. I still dont think the call 
handler led Mr L to believe that Mr K would be covered regardless  I think they made it 
clear enough that this would be for the underwriter to decide.
Given the importance to A of ensuring Mr Ks existing condition was covered by the new 
policy; I still think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr L/A to check with Mr K what treatment 
he was undergoing and where ahead of submitting the application forms. Had Mr L done so, 
I think hed likely have realised that Mr Ks treatment wouldnt be covered by the 
Countrywide list. And on balance, I think its most likely that if Mr L or Mr K had given Vitality 
details of Mr Ks ongoing treatment at the point of application, it would have been put on 
notice, ahead of policy set-up, that Mr L needed a different hospital list.
As I set out above, I found that the application forms are clear as to the hospital list options. 
Mr L selected Countrywide cover for Mr K. And I still think that overall, Vitality gave A clear 
information about the way the policy worked. So Im satisfied that it was fair for it to set-up 
Mr Ks policy on the Countrywide list basis.
Next, Ive thought again about As concern that Vitality repeatedly wrongly told it that the 
hospital list could be upgraded at renewal. I still dont think that this did represent 
misinformation. Its still the case that the policy terms allow for upgrades at renewal. And it 
would be for the underwriters to decide whether or not to approve an upgrade. I appreciate 
Mr L would like to see the underwriting evidence which shows that Vitality wont upgrade a 
policy in these specific circumstances. However, this is business sensitive information and 
thats why its confidential. As such, Im afraid Im unable to share this information with him.  
Again, Id like to reassure Mr L that Vitality did act in line with its own underwriting criteria 
when it declined to upgrade As policy at renewal.
Prior to issuing my provisional decision, I asked A to comment on what it wouldve done 
differently had it known ahead of time that the policy couldnt be upgraded at renewal if a 
claim was in progress. It appears Mr L feels I asked for this information late in the day to 
reach a decision. I asked for this information in order to allow me to assess, what, if any, 
impact this matter had on A, as it necessarily formed part of my overall consideration of the 
complaint. Its also important that I stress that I need to consider any loss to A  as the 
policyholder. A is the complainant in this case. If Mr K feels that hes lost out because Vitality potentially handled a claim on the policy unfairly, then hed need to complain separately 
about that issue, as a beneficiary of the contract.
Based on all of the evidence, Im still satisfied that Mr L was told that the policy couldnt be 
upgraded over a month before the policy renewal date. In my view, this gave him some 
weeks to explore other policy options and to decide whether to take out a new policy with a 
different insurer. It follows then that I remain persuaded that Vitality didnt unreasonably 
delay in telling Mr L that the policy couldnt be upgraded until the policy had already 
renewed.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with As position, I dont think that Vitality made any 
error here for which I could fairly or reasonably could direct it to pay compensation. 
Therefore, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman