DRN-3560547
The complaint
Mr Es representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was mis-sold a term assurance policy (the policy) by Phoenix Life Assurance Limited, 
referred to as the business. 
In summary, the CMC says that the policy was mis-sold because:
Mr E was unemployed at the time. 
There was no justification for selling a policy with a 27-year term.
Mr E didnt need cover at all. 
There no paperwork to justify the sale of the policy. 
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
A confidential client profile (fact find) was used to record Mr Es financial 
circumstances, and aims, based on the information provided. 
Mr E wanted a policy that would provide life cover during the term of the policy, so 
the yearly reviewable plan was recommended. 
The policy provided life cover only and didnt have a cash-in value. It started on 28 
May 1994 and ended on 28 May 2021. 
Mr E was married, unemployed and in receipt of benefits. Being unemployed didnt 
mean that he didnt have a life cover need, and the benefits provided an income. 
If Mr E died within the term of the plan, the payments wouldve stopped, but in the 
event of a valid claim the policy wouldve paid out. 
Although the term was 27 years, the cost was reviewed annually and wasnt costed 
over a term of 27 years. So, Mr E couldve cancelled the plan without being 
financially disadvantaged if he no longer needed it. 
The policy documentation provided made clear the nature and operation of the 
policy. 
On 28 June 2016, a reminder of benefits letter was sent to Mr E which again gave 
him the start and end date of the policy.  
Mr E wouldve also received annual statements that made clear the start and end 
dates.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
It was recorded in the fact find that Mr E wanted financial protection for his family in 
the event that something happened to him. He had no financial protection in place at 
the time. 
On this basis, Mr E was recommended a yearly renewable term assurance policy 
with a £30,660 sum assured, at an initial cost of £9.21 (indexed linked), for a term of 
27 years. 
Although Mr E was unemployed at the time, he was in receipt of state benefits. He 
was saving £20 a month and had investments worth between £0 and £2,000. Mr E 
had no issues maintaining the plan, so he cant say it was unaffordable. 
The policy offered Mr E protection until the age of 70 but he had the option to cancel 
it sooner if he didnt want or need it. He also had the option to convert the policy to a 
whole of life policy, before he turned 60, if thats what he wanted. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
A long-term policy with premiums subject to increase for an unemployed person was 
bad advice. 
Within the Financial Planning Certificate, which advisers were required to have, you 
wouldnt have the author endorse the sale of the policy to someone in this position. 
The fact that he paid for the policy over the long term doesnt justify the sale.  
Mr E had been on benefits since 1989, as he was no longer working due to health 
problems. 
In 2016 Mr E was diagnosed with dementia. 
Mr E had no mortgage and was in fact dependent on his wife so why would he need 
the plan.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary he said:
Hes seen nothing that persuades him that the premiums were unaffordable for Mr E 
during the term of the plan. Whilst some people have to dip into their savings to keep 
up payments this wasnt the case here. 
Even if Mr E was dependent on his wife, doesnt mean it would be inappropriate for 
her to be the beneficiary of the policy, or that having a pension meant that payout 
wouldnt have benefitted her.   
Given that it was unknown how long Mr E would live, a plan until he was 70 wasnt 
unsuitable given his objectives in the fact find. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the policy was mis-sold. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Es strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr E 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point/question raised. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr E, and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I note the investigator says that Mr E didnt have any protection in place at the time, 
therefore there was a need for life cover. I also note it was recorded that Mr E wanted 
financial protection for his family in the event of his death, which is what the policy provided. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr Es need for life cover was met by 
the policy. Even if he had pre-existing life cover in place at the time, it wasnt of itself wrong 
to be recommend or to want additional life cover. 
On balance Im satisfied that it was made clear to Mr E that the policy didnt contain a cash 
in value. Ive also seen nothing to suggest thats what he wanted, so I cant blame the 
business for not selling a product with a cash value. Im satisfied the general policy 
documentation, including the 2016 reminder letter, made clear the start and end date of the 
policy, and that it didnt have a cash value.
In other words, I think its likely the business made it reasonably clear to Mr E how the policy 
worked including the term start and end date for the benefit, and the premium increase. I 
dont think the information given required any particular financial and/or specialist knowledge 
to understand. 
I note the CMC says that Mr E was diagnosed with dementia in 2016, suggesting that he 
wouldnt have been able to decide what he wanted to do, but thats not something I can 
blame the business for. Depending on his condition, it wouldve been up to him and/or 
whoever had authority to look after his affairs, to decide whether or not to continue with the 
plan. I note the 2016 letter encouraged the policy holder to re-consider whether or not the 
plan was needed in light of any changes to his circumstances. But a decision was evidently 
made to continue with the policy. 
In any case, Mr E had the benefit of life cover for almost three decades, and in the event of a 
valid claim  within the term of the policy  it wouldve paid out the sum assured, and thats 
what Mr E paid for.  
In this instance I dont think theres any issue with Mr E being unemployed or in receipt of 
benefits. I agree with the business that this didnt mean there wasnt a need for life cover. It 
could be argued that it was all the more reason for him to take out protection in case he 
wasnt able to leave more money for his family. 
I note Mr E didnt have any children, but he was married, so was entitled to want to leave 
something for his wife if thats what he wanted  on the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that he did. 
Despite what the CMC says about Mr E being dependent on his wife, I note it was recorded 
that he was an unemployed care assistant and she was a housewife. This may explain 
why the policy was taken out on a first life basis  and Mr E was the only life assured  even 
though there was an option to take out joint cover. 
Its also possible that other options were discussed, and that Mr E was only interested in the 
policy. I note other options listed on the first page of the form included a Saver Plan, 
Capital Investment Plan and Family Income Benefit. The section titled additional benefits  with the option to convert and/or accumulate some cash in value  was crossed out, 
probably because Mr E wasnt interested in it and/or it was too expensive given that he only 
wanted life cover. 
Based on what the business says, on balance it seems that the yearly renewable policy also 
gave Mr E some flexibility in terms of cost and maintaining the policy. I understand that he 
wasnt obliged to maintain the plan for the whole of the term and could reconsider his 
position in light of any changes to his circumstances. In other words, Mr E had the option to 
cancel his plan sooner but evidently didnt want to. 
I note the premiums were cheaper to begin with, and subject to indexation in order to 
maintain a meaningful sum assured over the term of the plan - rather than being costed 
over the entire term of the policy which is now more common. This is likely to have made the 
policy more affordable. 
In any case, I note that Mr E maintained the policy  even with indexation  for the longer 
term. Whilst affordability doesnt of itself justify the sale of an unsuitable product, in this 
instance Im not persuaded the recommendation was unsuitable and it shows (albeit with the 
benefit of hindsight) that the policy and cost wasnt an issue for Mr E, despite being 
unemployed at the time. 
Im mindful of what the CMC says about paperwork, but businesses arent required to retain 
documentation indefinitely. So, in this instance I cant blame the business for not being able 
to provide more information about the sale of the policy that started almost three decades 
ago. 
I appreciate Mr E will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and on balance, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman