DRN-4197421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the broker Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited.
They say Atlanta failed to update their address correctly when they bought a home and 
buildings insurance policy in 2017. When they made a claim for a theft in 2022, the insurer of 
the policy declined their claim for misrepresentation. The policy was avoided from the 
renewal date in November 2021.
Mr and Mrs D say they would have told Atlanta when they bought the policy in 2017 that Mrs 
D used their home for business use (other than clerical use). This was the misrepresentation 
which led to the insurer avoiding their policy and declining their theft claim.
As Mrs D is the lead complainant, for ease Ill refer to her in my decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought a home and buildings insurance policy through a broker, Atlanta in
November 2017. I understand Mrs D says they had bought a policy through Atlanta for their
previous home. In 2017 they moved to their current address - and rented out a property.
From Atlantas notes, Mrs D bought separate landlord insurance through Atlanta too.
In April 2022 Mrs D noticed jewellery was missing. The last place she remembered seeing it
was on her kitchen windowsill. While the insurer investigated her claim, it discovered Mrs D
was using a garage on the property for business use. Mrs D believed a client may have
stolen the jewellery from a windowsill while the window was open. Mrs D had explained that
clients would access to a rear garage via an unlocked gate to the side of the house and 
would have had access to the open window.
The insurer declined Mrs Ds claim and cancelled the policy as if it never existed from the
renewal date in November 2021. The insurer said Mr and Mrs D had failed to disclose that
the home was being used for business use (other than clerical use). The insurer said if it had
known about this use, it wouldnt have offered a policy.
Mr and Mrs D raised a complaint with the insurer which this service has dealt with
separately. Mr and Mrs D complained to the broker, Atlanta for failing to pass on the correct
information to the insurer as she says she would have told it about using their home for
business use. As she didnt receive any policy documents, Mrs D said she didnt have the 
opportunity to check if the details were correct. She could see the payments were being 
taken from their bank account, so Mrs D said she knew they were insured.
Atlanta didnt uphold their complaint. It said it no longer held a recording of the sales call in
2017. But it had sent policy documents to Mr and Mrs D which included a statement of fact.
This stated that Mr and Mrs D had answered no to the question asking if their home was
used for business use. As there was no record of Mr and Mrs D contacting it to correct this
statement, Atlanta said it had done nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs D asked us to look at their complaint. Mrs D said she isnt sure if the jewellery
was stolen. She only knows for sure that it is missing. Mrs D said they never received any
policy documents from Atlanta since 2017. She noticed when she made a claim that the
broker had their contact address for issuing the documents as their previous address, not
the risk address (where theyd lived since November 2017).
Our Investigator recommended their complaint should be upheld. She thought it was most
likely Atlanta had made an error in failing to update the contact address when Mrs D bought
the policy for the new risk address.
She explained that - had Atlanta been able to show the documents had been sent to the
correct contact address - she wouldnt recommend the complaint be upheld - because the
onus was on Mr and Mrs D to check the documents were correct. But as Mrs D could see
the insurance payments were being taken from her bank account, she didnt check for policy
documents. And so the Investigator made the following recommendations for Atlanta:
consider the claim for theft in line with the policy terms and without taking into 
account that Mrs Ds home wasnt covered for business use. This is because she 
shouldnt be penalised for not having the correct cover in place because of Atlantas 
actions.
Atlanta need to liaise with the insurer in order to reverse the policy voidance and
remove Mrs Ds information from any database they might have recorded it on.
Atlanta should pay Mrs D £250 compensation for the distress caused by avoiding the
policy and refusing to consider Mrs Ds claim for jewellery that was of immense 
sentimental value to her. Mrs D told the Investigator she hasnt been able to buy new 
insurance as the premiums were so expensive, causing stress and worry.
Atlanta didnt agree. It said Mrs D set up the policy without business use and the onus was
on her to tell Atlanta when this changed. It said it understands Mrs D didnt receive the policy
documents due to the address being different, but says it did nothing wrong and the
customer should take some responsibility for not receiving any documentation since 2017 to
check the details and level of cover was correct.
In response, the Investigator explained that as the administrator of the policy, the
responsibility to record the correct address fell on Atlanta. Its notes showed that post it sent
to Mrs D was returned in 2018 and she had replied to an email to advise Atlanta of the
correct address. While the note doesnt clarify the actual address, at the time of the call, Mrs
D was living at the risk address. So the Investigator found that it was most likely that Mrs D
provided the correct address and that Atlanta failed to update its records correctly - as
renewal documents continued to be sent to the previous address. Atlanta had correctly
recorded the risk address, but for some reason was using the previous risk address to send
correspondence to.
The Investigator clarified that - had Atlanta shown it sent the renewal documents to the
correct address, she wouldnt be recommending the complaint be upheld.
Atlanta didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. It didnt provide any further
comments.
Mrs D accepted the Investigators findings.I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2023 as I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
Mrs D disagreed and Ive addressed her comments in my findings below. 
Atlanta didnt reply to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that there is no call recording from when Mrs D arranged this policy - and so the
available information is from Mrs Ds recollection and Atlantas notes.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs D says that she believes she would have told 
Atlanta in the sales call that she wasnt working from home as she hadnt yet decided 
whether to. This was a decision she made after they moved. Mrs D is unhappy that the call 
recording of the actual sale - which she says has been relied on to avoid her policy - isnt 
available. She says this is unfair.
Ive looked at the diary notes provided by Atlanta. These appear to show that it was aware
Mrs D used her previous home for business use. A diary note from 13 May 2017 - before this
policy was arranged - reads:
gave insd (insured) homeworkers tel no on (number inserted here) as does Botox
etc. from home and has visitors on her own home insurance.
On 19 October 2017 - approximately a month before this policy was set up - the notes read:
new quote
Client rang for a quote as current co (company) cant quote on her specified items
and she is going to be moving shortly - she is hoping to sign contracts by 10.11.2017
quote done was on the basis that no business use is carried out at the home address
- she did mention that she does aesthetic work which she may do from home told her
if that was the case would have to go through to commercial to see if they can quote
- no to hep/hIp looked at varying levels of xs (excess) and sent out quote based on 
350 as requested.
So, from the notes it seems there was a discussion around the fact that Mrs D carries out a
business from home - but from these notes it suggests that this may happen, so in the
future. So the policy quote provided by Atlanta did not include business use - and this was
explained by the agent - as this was not yet happening.
Ive also considered the comments Mrs D gave to the investigator for the insurer when she
made her claim. The report reads:
When they moved to this address in 2017 they immediately re purposed the large
detached garage in the garden, they bricked up the front, installed windows and
replaced the roof, then decorated it to become a self-contained clinic" which has a
treatment room, a small waiting area (not used since covid) and its own toilet.This statement would seem to support Atlantas diary notes from October 2017 that there
was an intention to use the new home for business use - but this wasnt in place until after
the policy was arranged, given the building works that began after moving. And so it was for
Mrs D to contact Atlanta when she started to use her new home for business use.
So in line with my provisional decision and Mrs Ds response, it seems that its most likely 
Mrs D didnt say her home was being used for business use when she bought the policy in 
November 2017 - as this happened afterwards.
Atlantas notes show that it received returned post from Royal Mail in November 2018 and
sent Mrs D an email asking her to contact it, which she did by phone. The diary note reads:
Client called as had an email re: returned mail as address as gone away, she forgot
to call to change correspondents address, have processed this now and client has
paid ap (additional premium) and added on llord (landlord) legal, paid this AP in full
so ddi (Direct Debit Instruction) left alone.
Although this note relates to a separate policy Mrs D held through Atlanta, it also shows that
Atlanta holds the customers notes together. And so while it isnt completely clear that the
change of risk address should have been updated at this stage to Mrs Ds change of
address in 2017, I think on balance this is what the call confirmed. I therefore think that
Atlanta failed to correctly update its records to show the correspondence address for this
policy since 2017 to the risk address under this policy.
However, Ive considered whether - had Atlanta sent the policy documents to the correct
address - this would have made a difference to the outcome.
Mrs D didnt query or look for any policy documents since the policy was set up in 2017. So I
think its very unlikely that she would have checked the details of the policy if they had been
posted to her. I say this because Mrs D says she was satisfied that because a monthly
premium was being taken from her bank account, this meant she was insured. I must take 
into consideration that there is also a duty on the customer to check that they are adequately 
insured - and to check this at each renewal date for any changes.
So - while I agree that Atlanta is most likely responsible for failing to update Mrs Ds address
- I dont think this therefore means the outcome would have been different. I dont think this
error means that Mrs D would have checked the policy, informed Atlanta when she intended
to use her home for business use, leading to an alternative policy being set up and her claim
being met.
Mrs D feels it is unfair to assume that she wouldnt have checked the policy documents had 
they been sent to the correct address. She says the fact is Atlanta failed to update her 
address - and the facts outweigh assumptions.
When a business has made a mistake - and in this case I have formed a view that on 
balance, it did - we look at what the impact was and what would have happened differently. 
There is no record of Mrs D querying where her policy documents were, or contacting 
Atlanta to tell it when she changed the use of her home to business use. Mrs D hasnt 
disputed this. So I dont think the outcome would have been different. Ive also kept in mind 
that Mrs D used her previous home for business use - and that the notes for a new quote 
show a discussion was had about the need for a different (commercial) policy if or when her 
home was used for business use. So I think Mrs D was reasonably aware that if or when she 
intended to use her home for business use, this was something she would need to check 
with Atlanta as to whether her cover was still appropriate.As explained in my provisional decision, there are other reasons why I dont intend to uphold 
the complaint. 
Mrs D told the investigator appointed by the insurer that she didnt tell Atlanta she was using
her home for business use because she believed she didnt need to declare it. This was
because she had bought a separate insurance policy for the business.
I understand that it transpired that policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances of Mrs
Ds loss. But that isnt relevant here. The statement Mrs D gave to the Insurers Investigator 
is different to the statement that she believes she told Atlanta she used her home for 
business use when she applied for the policy.
I appreciate that this will be from Mrs Ds recollection as it was a number of years ago. And
Atlantas notes show that there was a discussion between them about the works Mrs D did.
But I think the available evidence shows that - on balance - Mrs D was reasonably aware
that this policy was arranged without business use. She believed she had alternative cover
elsewhere, but unfortunately she wasnt insured for the circumstances of her claim.
In my provisional decision I summarised my findings: 
I thought it more likely Mrs D was going to use her new home for business use, but 
this wasnt the situation when she asked Atlanta to arrange insurance cover in 
October 2017. I think this is supported by Atlantas notes and by what Mrs D told the 
insurers Investigator about renovation works which they started when they moved 
there. Mrs D in response has confirmed that this is correct. 
While I think its most likely Atlanta is responsible for not sending policy documents to
Mrs Ds correct address for her to check, the fact is Mrs D never queried or looked for
them over a period of five years. This makes it very unlikely that even if Atlanta had 
sent them to the correct address, Mrs D would have checked them and contacted 
Atlanta to make changes. So I dont think Mrs D has been prejudiced by this error by 
Atlanta - because the outcome would have been the same in terms of the policy set 
up, the avoidance and decline of her claim. When Mrs D made her claim, her home 
was being used for business use and her policy didnt provide cover in these 
circumstances. 
Mrs D told the insurer she had separate cover for the business, so believed she
didnt need to declare the business use to them. This indicates Mrs D was aware she
didnt have business use cover under this policy.
The fact that Mrs Ds alternative cover happened not to cover contents is very
unfortunate. But this doesnt mean Atlanta should cover the claim under this policy
for the reasons Ive given.
I realise that the personal items that were stolen were of great sentimental value to Mrs D. 
She says she doesnt see why working from her garden would impact on her cover for 
individual personal items. 
The risk an insurer wishes to take on is a commercial decision they make. And this is based 
on the information a customer provides in response to the questions asked when they buy a 
policy - and when they inform an insurer of an important change such as business use. 
Using a home for business use where clients attend is a different risk to a home where 
clients dont. I am sorry for the upset my decision has caused Mrs D. But based on all of the available 
information, I dont think Atlanta needs to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. This 
means I dont require Atlanta to deal with Mrs Ds claims for losses or to take any action in 
relation to the avoidance of the policy by the insurer.
As Im not upholding the complaint, this means I dont think Atlanta should pay 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman