DRN-3515263
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Standard Life Savings Limited caused delays in the transfer of her ISA 
to a new third-party provider. 
The complaint was initially brought on Mrs Ms behalf by a representative, but they are no 
longer acting for her. For ease, Ive referred to everything as if it was said by Mrs M.
What happened
Mrs M gave instructions to transfer her ISA to a new provider, who Ill refer to as P. An in 
species transfer wasnt possible, so Standard Life needed to sell the investments held in the 
ISA and transfer the cash to P.
Standard Life received the transfer request on 19 March 2020, but it didnt sell Mrs Ms funds 
until 22 April. It sent the proceeds to P on 12 May, but it didnt confirm theyd been released 
until 26 May, so P didnt reinvest the money until 27 May.
Standard Life apologised for the delays it had caused. It said it should have carried out the 
sales on 20 March. But, due to price movements, the delay meant the sales realised 
£23,005.71 more than they would have if theyd been carried out on time. It accepted P 
could have invested earlier than it did if it had correctly released the money. Following 
calculations completed by P, Standard Life agreed its mistake had resulted in a loss for 
Mrs M of £13,316.46. As this loss was offset by the gain, Standard Life concluded Mrs M 
hadnt been disadvantaged. It paid her £150 compensation for the delays and the trouble 
and upset caused.
Our investigator didnt conclude that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
overall Mrs M was left in a better position as the result of the delay and that the payment of 
£150 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said, it wasnt fair to offset the loss against the gain and that the two 
errors should be looked at individually.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusion of the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Standard Life should have acted on Mrs Ms instructions earlier than it did. I find it should 
have sold her funds on 20 March 2020, but the sales didnt take place until 22 April. But 
I dont find Mrs M made a financial loss as a result of the delay. Thats because the price of 
the investments moved in her favour and the sales on 22 April resulted in proceeds of 
£23,005.71 more than she would have received if the sales had been carried out on 
20 March.
Its difficult to say with certainty what date the money would have been sent to P and what 
date it would have been available for P to invest if there hadnt been any delays. Thats 
because there are various processes each party needs to complete before the new provider 
receives the money and its available to reinvest. But, based on other transfers taking place 
at this time  and the governments guideline that ISA transfers shouldnt usually take longer 
than 30 calendar days - I think, on balance, its more likely than not that the money should 
have been available for P to invest on or around 20 April. Standard Life has provided 
calculations to show the comparison of how much would have been sent to P, if there hadnt 
been the initial delay, and the value of the investments P would have invested in on 27 May 
 the day the investment was actually carried out. Im satisfied from the calculations its 
provided that, whilst a loss was incurred because P wasnt able to invest until 27 May, it 
wasnt as great as the financial gain Mrs M had already received. So, overall, I find Mrs M 
did not make a financial loss as a result of Standard Lifes mistakes.
Mrs M says the two delays should be treated separately  in other words, she should be able 
to keep the financial gain received as a result of the first delay and she should be 
compensated for the loss incurred as a result of the second delay. I dont agree. This was 
one transaction  the transfer of the ISA  and its fair to consider the overall outcome in 
deciding whether Mrs M made a financial loss overall.
Standard Life has already apologised for the delay and paid Mrs M150. I find this is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused, and I dont require 
it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman