DRN-3272836
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has agreed to do to 
put things right after he complained about the interest, fees and charges added to his 
overdraft.
Background
As a result of our adjudicators assessment, NatWest agreed to refund all the interest, fees 
and charges it added from January 2016. Our adjudicator thought that what NatWest had 
agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the 
case. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
It has already been explained to Mr H why were only able to look at events from January 
2015 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking at events from that point 
onwards.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to start charging Mr H a 
higher interest rate on his overdraft in January 2016. And it has agreed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Hs overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It also wants to remove the overdraft from Mr Hs account.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
I want to start by explaining that Im satisfied that January 2016 is a reasonable point to 
expect NatWest to have taken corrective action on Mr Hs account as it had sufficient time to 
have realised that the overdraft facility had become unsustainable for him by this point. So 
Im satisfied that NatWests offer to refund the charges from this point is fair and reasonable 
here.
It may also help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what NatWest 
has agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr H believes that NatWest should do more. As I understand it, he believes that he incurred 
additional losses as a result of having to cash in investments and hes unhappy at his 
overdraft being removed completely.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H has said. Before I consider the main reasons for      
Mr Hs unhappiness at NatWests offer, its worth noting that it isnt within our remit to punish 
or fine a financial firm for its conduct. All Im able to do is decide whether a customer lost out 
as a result of anything a firm might have done wrong and tell the firm to compensate that 
customer for any loss.  
Mr H says that NatWests offer doesnt adequately compensate him for having had to cash in 
some investments in order to repay his overdraft. But Mr H was always going to have to pay 
back the funds that he spent and he was only ever entitled to a refund of the interest. So 
what Mr H had to repay are the funds which he used and benefitted from and crucially I dont 
agree that the interest, fees and charges left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have 
been left with. In these circumstances, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require NatWest to pay Mr H any additional compensation for having 
had to encash investments.
I now turn to Mr Hs concerns about his overdraft being removed. I dont know exactly why 
NatWest wants to remove Mr Hs overdraft. But as Mr H complained that the charges for his 
overdraft caused him difficulty, I dont think it is unfair for NatWest to have taken this into 
account or put measures in place to ensure Mr H doesnt accrue charges he cant afford to 
pay in the future. As this is the case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
say that NatWest should continue to provide an overdraft to Mr H in circumstances where, 
bearing in mind what Mr H has said, it may have concluded he cant afford one. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already done to put things 
right for Mr H  reworking his account so that all the interest, fees and charges added since 
January 2016 are removed  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im 
not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr H to decide whether he 
wishes to accept NatWests offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman