DRN-3112117
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1996. Mrs A says the PPI was mis-sold. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale. So to keep things simple Ill refer below to AXA, rather than any other business.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mrs A 
had been with her employer for four years at the time of the sale, was entitled to sickness 
and redundancy pay and didnt have anything else, like savings, to pay her card with if she 
couldnt work.
AXA has told us Mrs A paid less than £1 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs As representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. Mrs A also requested a decision. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs A says the PPI was just included with her card. But her card application form had a 
separate section for the PPI, with a box to tick if she wanted the cover. On Mrs As form, 
which she signed to take the card, this box was ticked  and I think she wouldve known 
the box to take the cover shouldnt be ticked if she didnt want to take the cover. Nothing 
on the form said the PPI had to be taken or that the box for it had to be ticked either. 
So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely AXA made it clear Mrs A didnt 
have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mrs As circumstances at the time of sale, and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her  and I think 
she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and her card application form said it 
was cover for her account payments in case of sickness, accident or unemployment - so 
it looks to me like she wanted this type of cover. She might not have been able to claim if 
she missed work with the health issue shes told us about. But shes told us this issue 
was around ten years before the sale and that she didnt have any treatment for it or 
miss any work because of it. So with all this in mind, I dont think it likely she wouldve 
changed her decision to take the cover if shed been told more about this exclusion. 
Mrs A didnt have any other health issues the policy mightve made it hard to claim for 
and nothing about her job or employment wouldve made it difficult to claim. Also, 
bearing in mind she had no other means besides her work benefits, it seems like the 
policy wouldve been useful for Mrs A if she lost her job or was too sick to work in the 
circumstances the policy covered. It also looks like it was affordable. With this and all Ive 
said above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined the cover had AXA done more.
Overall, I consider Mrs A wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and given her circumstances I think it couldve provided a 
useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick to 
work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mrs As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman