DRN-2342876
The complaint
Mr D complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim under his personal 
accident insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the way Covea handled the claim.
What happened
Mr D held a personal accident insurance policy with Covea. The policy would pay a lump 
sum benefit in the event that Mr D suffered one of a number of listed health outcomes as a 
result of an accidental injury.
On 4 January 2019, Mr D says he accidentally injured his back while lifting heavy equipment. 
He explained that he mustve twisted his body awkwardly when lifting the equipment from 
the floor to place on shelving. He also says he fall backwards into the shelving unit.
Mr D made a claim for permanent total disablement (PTD) in November 2019, which Covea 
declined in May 2020.
Covea said that there was no evidence that Mr D had suffered any injury as a result of an 
accident. It said Mr Ds medical records didnt show history of trauma, or any note of an 
accident preceding his onset of back pain. However, Covea said it was willing to offer Mr D 
10% of the benefit payment as a gesture of goodwill, and that this was to recognise that hed 
experienced back problems before the incident happened.
Mr D wasnt happy with Coveas decision. He said there were several medical reports which 
confirmed hed suffered an accident, and how he wasnt able to work ever again.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Mr D had suffered an 
accident as defined by the policy terms. So, she didnt think Covea did anything wrong by 
declining the claim.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators findings. In essence, he says theres medical 
evidence to show he suffered an accident. As no agreement was reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say its clear that Mr D suffers from a great deal of pain, and this is having a 
huge impact on his life. None of this is in doubt. But what I need to decide is if Covea has 
followed its terms and conditions when it declined his claim, and if it did so fairly.
Mr D is claiming for the PTD benefit under the policy. This is defined as a disability caused 
by an accident which medical evidence confirms will last for the rest of a persons life and 
which permanently and totally stops them from doing any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualifies him or her to do.
The policy defines accident/accidental as a sudden and unforeseen event which happens 
by chance after the start date and results in bodily injury or accidental death.
I dont think the contemporaneous medical evidence shows that Mr D had an accident. The 
medical notes from 4 January 2019  so the date when Mr D says he had an accident  refer 
to 3-4 week history of low back pain, and they say that Mr D went to A&E a few days 
previously due to pain. Examination on 4 January didnt note any spinal tenderness. And the 
A&E discharge notes from the previous day refer to back pain.
The medical notes on 28 January 2019 refer to back pain for several months, and the 
notes on 5 February 2019 specifically say no injury during a review for low back pain. The 
notes on 28 February 2019 refer to multilevel spinal degenerative changes and says that 
the pain was most likely due to spinal degeneration. Mr D was diagnosed with osteoarthritis 
of spine. The discharge notes from A&E on 28 February 2019 also refer to backache (no 
recent injury). 
I find these medical notes to be persuasive medical evidence in this complaint, as the note 
on 4 January 2019 is from the date when Mr D says he had an accident. Theres nothing on 
these notes  or those shortly after  that refer to an accident or injury. So, I agree with 
Covea that this doesnt support that Mr D had injured his back in an accident.
There are several later medical reports that refer to Mr D hurting his back in January 2019 
when he twisted his back while lifting heavy equipment from the floor. But I dont find these 
as persuasive as the contemporaneous notes. 
I also note that there are different descriptions of the event in these later reports. For 
example, in January 2020 Mr Ds GP said that Mr D developed back pain in January 2019 
when lifting heavy equipment. But Mr D has since provided a more recent letter from his GP 
which says Mr Ds back issues are due to the accident as he fell backwards into the shelves 
behind him whilst holding heavy equipment. I find these two statements inconsistent.
Ive also seen several later medical reports that refer to sudden onset of pain. But again, 
the medical notes before and soon after the incident date describe a history of back pain.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Covea has done anything wrong by saying Mr D 
hasnt had an accident. I dont think the medical notes from the time show that any incident 
had taken place.
But for completeness sake, even if I were to consider that Mr D hurt his back when lifting 
heavy equipment from the floor, I still dont think this meets the definition of an accident 
under the terms of the policy. This is because for me to conclude than an accident 
happened, the event that caused the injury would need to be sudden and unforeseen which 
happened by chance. The event was the lifting of heavy equipment. I understand the 
equipment that Mr D lifted was his, and so he was aware of how heavy it was before he lifted 
it. So, in these circumstances, I dont think the event was sudden or unforeseen which 
happened by chance.
I note that Mr D has more recently said he fell backwards into shelves when holding the 
heavy equipment. Unfortunately, I havent seen anything from closer to the event that 
supports this. For example, Mr D mentioned shelving in his claim form in November 2019  
but he only referred to placing the heavy equipment on some shelving. He specifically said 
he experienced pain when lifting from the floor upwards, and how he mustve twisted his 
back awkwardly in the limited space.Overall, I dont think Covea has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ds claim for 
PTD benefit. But I note that its made an offer to pay Mr D 10% of the benefit as a gesture of 
goodwill, which means it hasnt accepted liability for the claim. If, on hindsight, Mr D would 
like to accept this offer, he should get in touch with Covea directly.
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Covea handled Mr Ds claim poorly. I think it 
made reasonable enquiries into Mr Ds medical history, and to understand the exact cause 
of his symptoms. So, I dont think Covea did anything wrong in the way it handled Mr Ds 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman