DRN-3504081
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund a payment made on his credit card to a 
secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for concert tickets.
What happened
In January 2022 tickets were purchased through the Website to attend a concert in May 
2022 using Mr Rs Lloyds credit card. The total cost charged to his card was just over £571.
Not long after purchasing the tickets Mr R became concerned about the Website and tried to 
stop the transaction hed just made to the Website. He spoke to Lloyds and it said it couldnt 
halt the transaction once hed confirmed it. The Website says such purchases are not 
cancellable or refundable.
So Mr R complained to Lloyds who looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. 
This was because it didnt think it could pursue a chargeback because it didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success in its view. It also thought a Section 75 claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be unsuccessful. So it didnt think it could do any more for 
Mr R.
Mr R didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by declining Mr Rs 
request for a refund. Mr R didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the Website 
(which Mr R then bought).
I can see from Mr Rs representations to the Investigator after his assessment that Mr R is 
(understandably) focusing on the actions of the Website. However whatever issues there 
maybe with the Website it doesnt necessarily follow that Lloyds has treated Mr R unfairly. 
Indeed Lloydss role in the matter is to be considered under the Chargeback rules in place 
and S75 of the Act and what is fair and reasonable with regard to those. So although it is 
clear Mr R feels the Website has failings and points to certain selling regulations which he 
says supports his position. However Lloyds can only be held responsible if it has failed in 
some way. And the question of whether or not Lloyds has treated Mr R fairly is the only 
question I can decide upon in this decision. This is an important distinction which I hope Ive 
made sufficiently clear.
I should also start by saying that Mr R has made numerous arguments in this case. I have 
considered them all. But I shall only be addressing those issues which I consider are 
decisive to this complaint.
Mr R accepts he made this transaction for these tickets on the day in question and that he 
did this transaction with the Website in question. This service has seen a number of 
complaints about this Website and has built up through these cases (and its enquiries) a 
detailed appreciation of the process that consumers went through when purchasing tickets at 
different times. This understanding includes understanding changes to the selling process 
over several years and what purchasers would have seen at each stage of the process. 
Ive considered what this service knows about the process Mr R would have gone through at 
the time that he bought the tickets and what he would have seen on the Website at each 
stage. Im satisfied on balance that when Mr R went through the several stages/pages of the 
sales process and got towards the end of the sales process and had to enter his card 
details, the total cost to be charged to him was shown at that point which is importantly 
before he completed the transaction. Accordingly Im satisfied the transaction was properly 
authorised by Mr R and correctly applied to his credit card account with Lloyds. 
Mr R says that Lloyds then sent him a text asking if I had made the payment which I 
confirmed. So I can see Lloyds took enhanced steps (which it isnt obliged to do) to ensure 
the validity of the transaction. And on Mr Rs confirmation the transaction then completed.
Mr R says he contacted Lloyds at the time in order to cancel/unwind the transaction as he 
said there were concerns regarding the website. However such transactions are automated 
and essentially instantaneous. And once the transaction was authorised and confirmed by 
Mr R, Lloyds was obligated to carry out the instruction Mr R had made to it. And it is also 
obligated to carry out such payment services in line with the relevant law and regulations. So 
although I note Mr Rs disquiet at how Lloyds dealt with him at that time Im not persuaded it 
did anything wrong with regard to the processing of the transaction itself.
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr R 
does here, Lloyds (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful. But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism, 
and other reasons along with that of the outcome of the chargeback actually being 
successful through the chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt 
necessarily mean that card issuers should refund every transaction similar to this one. 
I dont think Lloyds couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr R didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Lloyds is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The Website would then receive that chargeback 
request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, 
then Lloyds should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it 
can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not Lloyds) who will 
then make an independent determination on the matter. So Lloyds isnt solely responsible for 
the decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect 
of success.
Lloyds has said it didnt raise a chargeback when Mr R raised concerns about the Website 
as there was nothing persuasive to suggest that the tickets wouldnt be supplied. It also 
noted that the transaction was non-refundable according to the terms and conditions and 
that the Website had declined to cancel or refund the transaction.
And having considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited in 
the card scheme rules) Im not persuaded Mr R has lost out because Lloyds didnt raise a 
chargeback. I say this because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success 
considering the situation and the chargeback rules. I also think had it raised a chargeback 
the Website would have defended it on the basis it provided what it said it would and hadnt 
done anything wrong.
So whether or not Lloyds should have raised a chargeback doesnt make a difference here 
because I dont think Mr R has lost out because of what Lloyds did. I think on balance had it 
raised a chargeback it would have been unsuccessful considering the position of the website 
and the chargeback rules. So I think Lloydss position of such a chargeback not having a 
reasonable prospect of success is fair and reasonable.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Rs Lloyds credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Lloyds as he does against the 
Website if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by it. 
I should make very clear here that this test is a very different test to whether Mr R thinks the 
Website could have done things better overall or is acting properly more broadly. Ultimately 
Lloyds is only responsible in this case due to this legislation and is only responsible for those 
issues which are ascribed to it under this legislation (which has significant limits within it 
also). This distinction between Lloyds and the Website is crucial in properly appreciating this 
complaint. They are far from one and the same.
S56 of this Act is also important here. In summary s56 has the effect of making Lloyds 
responsible during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr R entering into the 
agreement. In essence this means Lloyds can be held responsible for the things that were 
done or said during the sales process before agreement was reached.
As Ive described the liability here under the Act has significant limitations. For instance the 
Act includes certain financial limits under S75 with regard to the amount of the transaction in 
question. Ive considered these limits and Im satisfied that Mr Rs transaction can be 
considered under this section. 
Another limitation is around the nature of the relationship between parties. For a valid claim 
under there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The Websites terms 
and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. This is a key distinction here 
and an important one in the consideration of the case more broadly. However the Website does provide a service and for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website 
says it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr R, Lloyds and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how the ticket information that was provided by the 
seller (the original ticket purchaser-not the Website) is displayed to buyers. Under the 
guarantee its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller (the 
original purchaser of the tickets who is now selling them through the Website) doesnt fulfil 
their obligations around supplying the tickets.
For a successful claim Mr R would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website, not as Ive said before that the Website could have done better or more. As 
Ive mentioned this service has built up a thorough understanding of the websites processes 
and what consumers saw as they navigated through the sales process. 
Clearly in any sales process things can be done better. But Lloyds can only be responsible 
here if there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation which materially impacted Mr 
Rs decision to purchase. Which is a different test than to that of whether or not Mr R feels 
the websites sales process was fair or whether he was told every possible piece of 
information he might want. 
Mr R has recently told this service that the concert has been postponed. And Ive not seen 
anything persuasive to show that come the concerts new date that either Mr R will not have 
the tickets, or the Website will not have fulfilled its guarantee. So Im not persuaded that 
there is any breach of contract here. And having considered the websites sales process 
throughout from the time Mr R used it, Im not persuaded he was told anything that was 
untrue which led him to buy tickets he would not have bought otherwise. Lastly it doesnt 
make a difference whether I consider this under S75 or indeed S56 because a claim under 
the Act can only be successful if there is shown to be a breach of contract or a material 
misrepresentation. And Im not satisfied there is either here at any stage of the interaction 
between Mr R and the Website.
Mr R disagrees with this. And I can see he points to a number of reasons for why he 
disagrees. Ill deal with these in turn.
Online Selling regulations
Mr R points to some guidance on a website with regard to obligations upon certain types of 
sales practices. Firstly and most importantly these dont make a difference here. I say this 
because Lloyds can only be held responsible if there is breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. The information Mr R points to is with regard to the responsibilities of 
merchants. But Lloyds potential liability is more limited than the responsibilities of merchants 
to consumers. As Ive described Lloyds and the Website are not one and the same for the 
purposes of S75 or chargeback. And it is only under these two modes of dispute with 
merchants that Mr R can gain redress from Lloyds in these particular circumstances.
Furthermore I should add that what Mr R points to is a summary of the regulations and isnt 
the regulations themselves. And indeed in the actual relevant regulations there are 
exemptions which merchants such as the website here can benefit from with regard to cancellation rules and other matters. And I should also add the terms of the website are 
clear with regard to cancellations and refunds. And Mr R agreed to those in making the 
purchase. So Mr Rs arguments here are not persuasive as to why Lloyds should be liable.
Duty of Care
Mr R says of Lloyds that surely they have a duty of care to ensure that I am not illegally 
separated from my money and that the various bodies they associate with provide an equal 
duty of care?
As Ive described Lloyds can only be held responsible here if they treat Mr R unfairly with 
regard to chargeback or S75. The primary responsibility of banks is to act on the instructions 
they receive from account holders to pay money in line with the instructions they have 
received as long as such transactions are properly authorised. Lloyds did this. After all this 
spending was from Mr Rs account, which he is responsible for paying back and having 
authorised the transaction Lloyds was simply (and is obliged to) following his instructions. So 
it hasnt treated Mr R unfairly for the reasons Ive given.
Website Terms and Conditions
Mr R says he couldnt download the Websites terms and conditions. These terms are easily 
accessible, and Ive not seen persuasive evidence of the issues Mr R suggests here. But I 
dont think it makes a difference. Lloyds can only be held responsible if there is breach or 
misrepresentation. And Im not persuaded either has been made out here. And as Ive 
described the guidance Mr R points to isnt the actual regulations but a summary of these 
and not binding on Lloyds in this context.
Can they or can't they cancel the transaction at my request?
Once instructed and authorised the transaction must complete in line with Mr Rs 
instructions. It maybe reversable or challengeable subsequently, but it should be 
remembered that this transaction was part of the binding contract that Mr R entered into. 
And Lloyds is required to pay the money in line with Mr Rs instructions and in line with the 
contract for the operation of Mr Rs account with Lloyds. And the transaction must adhere 
with Lloyds obligations with regard to payment services and surrounding laws and 
regulations around such transactions.
Lloyds processes
Mr R has said he has struggled with liaising with Lloyds particularly through its online and 
email-based services and particularly with regard to encryption and surrounding matters. 
Lloyds processes are within its commercial discretion and not for this service to consider. 
And how Lloyds complies with its complaint handling obligations and its data security 
obligations is not for this service but rather matters between Lloyds and the relevant 
regulator. Nevertheless I can consider whether Mr R has been treated fairly and Im not 
persuaded that in relation to the transaction in question that Mr R has lost out due to the 
issues Mr R raises here.
Issues regarding other unrelated transactions subsequently
Mr R has pointed to other issues with Lloyds since he brought his complaint to this service. 
These matters are not directly related to the transaction at hand here. And as the 
Investigator has explained to him it is only fair that Lloyds has opportunity to consider these 
matters first. Once it has, if Mr R remains dissatisfied, then he can bring a new complaint to 
this service with regard to those unrelated transactions and related issues.Summary
So although Mr R clearly feels the Website is at fault here this doesnt necessarily mean that 
Lloyds is liable. In summary this is a decision about what Lloyds is responsible for. The test 
here is did Lloyds consider the Chargeback situation here properly and was there any 
breach of contract or material misrepresentation made out in order to have a successful 
claim under S75.
I think that Mr R hasnt lost out here as I think Lloyds made a fair decision in not pursuing the 
chargeback. Im not persuaded that there has been a breach or misrepresentation here by 
the website which Lloyds should be responsible for. And I think Lloyds correctly applied the 
cost of the tickets to Mr Rs credit card account. So I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to 
refund Mr R for the tickets. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr R wishes to read. However Im satisfied 
Lloyds hasnt treated him unfairly or that it needs to remedy anything in relation to this 
transaction. So Mr Rs complaint isnt successful.
This decision does not prevent Mr R continuing his dispute with the Website directly if he 
chooses to do so. However this decision does bring to an end his dispute with Lloyds at this 
service in relation to this transaction for these tickets from this website.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman