DRN-4226652
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited has unfairly declined their claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to timeshare products they 
were sold.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs W purchased multiple timeshare memberships with a company Ill call D 
between 1998 and 2017. Membership was in the form of points and the total number of 
points held provide varying levels of benefits. These benefits include the ability to book and 
utilise holiday accommodation and other facilities through D and other affiliated businesses 
and schemes. 
In or around July 2016, Mr and Mrs W attended a sales presentation by D to talk about their 
current membership and discuss the purchase of more points in order to raise their 
membership status and associated benefits. Mr and Mrs W agreed to purchase 25,000 
additional points elevating their membership status to Ds platinum level. The purchase price 
of £19,750 was financed through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. This 
loan was repaid and closed in July 2017.
In or around August 2017, Mr and Mrs W attended another sales presentation by D and 
agreed to purchase a further 15,000 membership points. This resulted in a total points 
holding of 70,500 and they chose to allocate a proportion of these to three family members, 
retaining the balance in their own name. The purchase price of £16,800 was financed 
through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. This loan was repaid and 
closed in March 2018.
In December 2019, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr and Mrs W made a 
claim to Shawbrook under section 75 (S75) of the CCA. The PR said that during the sales 
meetings in July 2016 and August 2017, D made a number of representations about the 
membership benefits which turned out not to be true. And it was these misrepresentations 
that had induced Mr and Mrs W to enter into the purchase contracts with D.
The PR said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the membership points were marketed as an investment, or at least an asset capable 
of being sold; and
the membership points could be utilised to book cruises at prices cheaper than on 
the open market; and
the membership points would provide access to better holidays for less; and
the holidays and properties available were exclusive to Ds members.
Further, the PR said Mr and Mrs W had experienced availability issues for their preferred 
holidays and accommodation.
The PR believe there to be an unfair relationship under section 140A (S140A) of the CCA 
as a result of unfair conditions and clauses within the legal documentation governing the 
membership points and their usage.
The PR also thought Shawbrook had lent to Mr and Mrs W irresponsibly. They said thered 
been no affordability checks or discussions and no information had been discussed in 
relation to Mr and Mrs Ws income and expenditure. They said additional maintenance fees 
hadnt been discussed or considered as part of the overall affordability assessment.
In response, Shawbrook didnt agree the membership scheme and points had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs W. Or that there was any other reason for their claim to be 
upheld.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think D had misrepresented the 
points and membership benefits to Mr and Mrs W, or that a court was likely to find that an 
unfair relationship existed under S140A. As such, our investigator could find no reason to 
uphold their complaint.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, they said:
the evidence provided by both Mr and Mrs W, and D hadnt been fully assessed, 
analysed or considered; and
reference should be made to the circumstances and evidence in other similar claims 
in respect of memberships sold by D; and
there was insufficient reliance upon Mr and Mrs Ws own recollections of the sales 
presentations; and
D, as the supplier, has failed to provide rebuttal witness evidence; and
adherence to the provisions of the CCA wasnt fully considered; and 
the omission of key information and misleading verbal statement by D havent been 
considered, instead relying on Ds own contractual and legal documentation; and
it hadnt been considered that Shawbrooks failure to appropriately assess Mr and 
Mrs Ws application for finance placed them under financial strain.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Ws s complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and provide a final decision. 
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, whilst I ultimately came to 
the same outcome as our investigator, Id considered certain aspects not previously 
addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 8 June 2023  giving 
the PR, Mr and Mrs W and Shawbrook the opportunity to respond to my findings before I 
reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
and Mrs W paid for the timeshare products with restricted use fixed sum loan 
agreements. So it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr and Mrs 
W are afforded the protection offered to borrowers like them under those provisions. 
And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr and Mrs W and 
Shawbrook arising out of the credit agreements (taken together with any related agreements). And because the products purchased were funded under those credit 
agreements, theyre deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to 
make a determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when 
deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
The FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial 
products or services and provide rules and guidance about what this service is able 
to consider. Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute 
Resolution Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the 
decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we 
dont provide a legal service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that 
is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an 
ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
There are also other regulations that may apply specifically to misrepresentation, the 
sale of timeshare products, unfair trading and unfair terms. So, Ive considered any 
impact of the various related regulations and how they might apply here.
In considering the various points raised by the PR, I want to take this opportunity to 
clarify this services role in considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Its important to 
recognise that the complaint considered specifically relates to whether I believe 
Shawbrooks response to their claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence 
and information available to me. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr and Mrs Ws experience as timeshare product users
Before looking at the complaint in depth, I think its relevant to acknowledge Mr and 
Mrs Ws experience of timeshare products supplied by D up to the point of the 
product sales in July 2016 and August 2017. Records suggest that products were 
purchased by Mr and Mrs W as follows:
June 1998  purchased 8,000 points for £9,499 funded by credit card;
June 1999  purchased a further 2,500 points through a third party for £2,799 
funded by a card payment;
August 1999  purchased a sampler membership in another product for US 
$1,395
June 2009  purchased a further 2,500 points under a private resale 
agreement with another member;
November 2010  traded 2,500 points towards 4,500 points in another 
scheme operated by D for US $7,915;
December 2010  exchanged the recently acquired 4,500 points back into 
their original scheme with D at no cost;
August 2011  purchased a further 10,000 points under a private resale with 
another member;
April 2013  traded 21,000 points for 21,000 points in a Fractional timeshare 
scheme operated by D for £12,600 funded by card payment. This transaction 
was reversed in June 2013;February 2016  purchased a further 5,500 points for £4,211 funded by card 
payment;
July 2016  purchased a further 25,000 points for £19,750 funded under a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook; and
August 2017  purchased a further 15,000 points for £16,800 funded under a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
The transactions in July 2016 and August 2017 are the subject of Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint here.
Furthermore, while I dont have access to Mr and Mrs Ws use of their timeshare 
points, Shawbrook did confirm (in their final response) that theyd secured 15 
reservations in 2018 alone and have assisted in securing their desired bookings on 
many occasions throughout their membership.
Were the timeshare products misrepresented?
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by D in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that D made false statements of fact when selling Mr and Mrs W the 
holiday products in July 2016 and August 2017. In other words, that they told Mr and 
Mrs W something that wasnt true in relation to one or more of the points they have 
raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations were material in 
inducing them to enter the contract. This means I would need to be persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs W reasonably relied on the false statements when deciding to buy the 
membership point upgrades. 
Various allegations have been made specifically relating to the two sales referenced 
above. So, Ive considered those allegations against the information available from 
the Time of the Sale in each case. Not all documents from that time appear to be 
available. But I have considered those provided together with information thats 
contained in Ds Membership Guide and in a summary of Ds Loyalty Benefits.
As Mr and Mrs Ws points holding increased, their status with D changed in 
accordance with the total number of points they held at any time. Each status 
category affords them various benefits, some of which (but not necessarily all) may 
increase or change within each higher category.
Based upon Mr and Mrs Ws points holding over time, they benefitted from a 
Standard membership status up until December 2010; whereupon their holding 
gave them Silver status. This continued until February 2016 when their purchase, at 
that time, changed their membership to Gold status. The purchase in July 2016 
again changed their membership to Platinum status, which was retained after the 
purchase in August 2017.
There is a suggestion that points purchased privately (i.e., not directly from D) dont 
count towards a members enhanced status. I havent seen this confirmed and as I 
dont believe D were directly involved in these transactions, I cant reasonably hold 
them responsible for not explaining this to Mr and Mrs W at the time.  
It appears Mr and Mrs W would ordinarily expect to derive enhanced benefits from 
their increased membership status as a result of the points purchased in July 2016. 
But as the purchase in August 2017 didnt appear to result in a further change in 
membership category, I wouldnt expect those benefits to have been enhanced 
further at that stage.
Ds Loyalty Benefits suggest that where Mr and Mrs Ws membership status 
changes to Platinum, they would benefit from the following (non-exhaustive) list of 
enhanced benefits over and above the preceding Gold status:using points to pay for cruising and luxury jet bookings for up to 30% of the 
cost at US $0.30 per point with no redemption fee;
seven complimentary loyalty accommodation upgrades per year when 
requested within 72 hours of arrival date;
three preferred unit reservations per year  subject to availability;
five active loyalty search requests;
complimentary Reservation Protection Plan for up to seven single stay 
reservations of less than 5,000 points; and
access to 24-hour reservation hold, Ds legacy program, associate 
membership of In-resort benefits, a chat and call service and points 
redemption on fee payments.
Other enhanced benefits relate to the pricing of other services and benefits. So, 
overall, Im persuaded that D did tell Mr and Mrs W that the purchase they completed 
in July 2016 could enhance the benefits they could access under their membership in 
line with their published points levels (subject to any restrictions relating to private 
transfers). However, it doesnt appear these benefits wouldve been enhanced 
following their purchase in August 2017 as this doesnt appear likely to have resulted 
in further enhancement of their membership status. The additional points would only 
have provided them with more spending power within the context of the membership 
levels provided by D.
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sales. I 
have Mr and Mrs Ws recollections, but these appear to run contrary to the 
documentation. Looking at the available documentary evidence from the time of sale, 
I cant see anything to show that the products were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs W. 
And while I dont doubt the honesty of their recollections, honesty isnt the same as 
credibility  which is an important distinction to make for the purpose of this complaint 
(see what Mr Justice Leggatt had to say in Gestmin SGPC S.A. v Credit Suisse (UK) 
Limited [2013].1
But even if I was to put to one side what the courts might say about the reliability of 
human memory, experience tells me that the more time that passes between a 
complaint and the event complained about, the more risk there is of recollections 
being vague, inaccurate and influenced by discussions with others. And having not 
been present at the Time of the Sale, it isnt possible for me to determine with 
certainty what Mr and Mrs W were or werent told by D. So, in the end, the part their 
testimony plays in determining the outcome of this complaint comes down to the 
extent it can be corroborated given the other evidence available.
Ive also not seen any evidence which shows they were told that the resorts were 
exclusive solely to their membership with D. And in any event, it doesnt seem to me 
thats prevented Mr and Mrs W from making bookings, subject to availability  a point 
that is made repeatedly in many of the documents from the Time of the Sale. I 
appreciate that the representatives of D may have emphasised the positive elements 
of membership and stressed the benefits Mr and Mrs W could obtain. But that 
doesnt mean that I can say they misrepresented the products.
Were the upgrades marketed and sold as an investment?
For Mr and Mrs Ws upgrades to have been sold as an investment contrary to the 
Timeshare Regulations, D wouldve needed to present them in a way that used an 
1 This was followed in Lachaux v Lachaux [2017], discussed with approval and explained by the Court of Appeal in Kogan v Martin [2019] 
(see, in particular, paragraph 88) and quoted with approval by the Supreme Court in Bancoult, R (on the application of) (No 3) v Secretary 
of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (Respondent) [2018].investment element to persuade Mr and Mrs W to contract. Only then would it have 
fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an 
investment contrary to Regulation 14(3)2. 
Having considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded that the upgrades were 
marketed and sold as investments. I say that because theres evidence that D made 
efforts to avoid giving Mr and Mrs W the impression that their membership was a 
financial investment. There were, for example, various disclaimers in the paperwork 
at The Time of the Sale. The Terms and Conditions (signed and dated by Mr and Mrs 
W on 14 July 2016) said You should not purchase your points as an investment  
except of course in your holidays []. And the Customer Compliance 
Statement/Declaration to Treating Customer Fairly (the Compliance Statement), 
which was only two pages long and was signed by Mr and Mrs W, said the following 
at point 14:
We understand that the purchase of our Points is an investment in our future 
holidays, but that it should not be regarded as a property or financial investment and 
that any subsequent resale will depend on market conditions.
Whats more, whilst Mr and Mrs Ws witness statement suggest that Ds 
representatives told them that the purchase was a good investment, and that points 
were selling for more than what we were to pay [], Im not persuaded that this was 
the main reason Mr and Mrs W agreed to the purchase. And in any event, this 
statement appears to align with Ds reference to their investment in [] future 
holidays, rather than for financial returns, and seems to be a reference to the 
preferential price being offered to Mr and Mrs W at the time. Whats more, I think its 
particularly relevant that Mr and Mrs W were already long-standing members who 
were likely to be familiar with the membership scheme in question.
On balance and in light of what Ive said above, I think its unlikely that the upgrades 
were marketed and sold by D as an investment contrary to the Timeshare 
Regulations.
Was there an unfair relationship under S140A?
The PR suggest various terms of the Purchase Agreement and associated legal 
documentation are unfair. And as a debtor-supplier-creditor agreement exists by 
virtue of the loan agreements entered into, they believe this means that an unfair 
relationship exists within the context of S140A.
The breadth of the unfair relationship test under S140A is stark. But a simple breach 
of a legal or equitable duty doesnt necessarily make the relationship unfair. It also 
isnt just about hard-edged requirements  though the standard of commercial 
conduct reasonably expected can be important. And while there may be features of 
the transactions that operate harshly against the debtor, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that the relationship is unfair. After all, such features may be required in order to 
protect what a court regards as legitimate interests. 
Relationships between businesses and private individuals are also often 
characterised by large differences of knowledge and expertise  which means theyre 
inherently unequal as a result. But as far as the Supreme Court was concerned in 
Plevin3, it cant have been parliaments intention that such relationships should be 
liable to be reopened for that reason alone.
I acknowledge that some of the contractual terms that apply to Mr and Mrs Ws 
membership may have been unfair under the UTCCR4 and there may have been an 
2 The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010
3 The Supreme Courts judgement in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014]
4 The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999imbalance of knowledge that only D was in a position to rectify. The Supreme Court 
did say in its decision in the case of Plevin (at paragraph 18) that an inequality of 
knowledge and understanding is capable of making a relationship unfair. But it also 
referred to the imbalance needing to be sufficiently extreme when doing so.
As Ive already highlighted, Mr and Mrs W had been members of Ds membership 
scheme for several years by the time they agreed to upgrade their points holding in 
2016 and 2017. And those upgrades werent the first time theyd upgraded their 
membership. In fact, theyd also independently done so through private resale 
agreements. So, I think their experience as members is likely to have given them a 
reasonable amount of insight into what they were purchasing and what the ongoing 
costs associated with their membership were and might be like going forward. Mr and 
Mrs W decided to enter into the upgrade agreements with that experience in mind. 
And in the absence of a credible explanation from them as to why, at the Time of the 
Sale, anything said by D (or not said) couldve have played a significant part in that 
decision, Im not persuaded it did.
I also accept that its possible that some of the terms governing the associated 
annual management charges and Ds remedies if they werent paid, together with Mr 
and Mrs Ws right of withdrawal may go against the requirements of the UTCCR. But 
I dont think I need to formally decide that point here because, even if the terms were 
unfair, I cant see theyve actually operated unfairly against Mr and Mrs W. 
As a consequence, Im not persuaded that the positions of both parties to the 
upgrade agreements were so one sided that Mr and Mrs Ws ability to choose 
between upgrading or not (and borrowing the money to do so) was severely limited.
This doesnt necessarily mean to say that Mr and Mrs W couldnt have been put at a 
disadvantage when entering into the upgrade agreement if the contractual terms 
criticised by the PR were unfair under the UTCCR. But as Ive already said, as far as 
I can currently tell, the potential unfairness of those terms never actually arose in 
practice. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that a court is likely to find the relationship between 
Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs W unfair for the purposes of S140A.
Irresponsible Lending
The PR have made various allegations suggesting that the loans were provided 
irresponsibly. In particular that no affordability checks were undertaken by D or 
Shawbrook, having not discussed this aspect with Mr and Mrs W and not sought 
details of income and expenditure as part of any assessment.
Shawbrook havent provided specific evidence of their credit assessment or details of 
Mr and Mrs Ws credit files or credit scores at the time. But they have said that an 
appropriate credit assessment was completed based upon their regulatory 
obligations under CONC rule 5.2.1.5 And that the loans were considered affordable 
based upon the information they were aware of at the time, and the credit reference 
checks they undertook. Ive also seen a copy of the loan application Mr and Mrs W 
completed in July 2016 which includes details of their income and property equity. 
If I were to find that Shawbrook hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  
and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Mr and Mrs W in order to uphold their complaint here. However, with 
no information about Mr and Mrs Ws actual position at the time and no evidence or 
suggestion that they struggled to maintain repayments, I cant reasonably conclude 
the loans were unaffordable for them. And given both loans were fully repaid within 
5 The Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)12 months of being drawn, there doesnt appear to be any evidence of unaffordability 
or resultant loss.
Summary 
Having carefully considered all the information and arguments presented in this 
complaint, Im not currently persuaded that Shawbrooks response to Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. So, while I appreciate they will be 
disappointed, I currently dont intent to uphold their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response, Shawbrook accepted my findings and confirmed they had nothing further to add 
at this point.
The PR didnt accept my provisional findings and responded at length with a number of 
points for me to consider. In particular, they thought Id given insufficient weight to [Mr and 
Mrs Ws] witness statement and went on to highlight a number of points within that 
document they thought should be given further consideration. As Ive already said above, 
Ive fully and carefully considered all recollections provided. But these need to be considered 
in a balanced way against the evidence and information available from the time of the sale  
thats what Ive done here.
I think its also relevant to say that a good proportion of Mr and Mrs Ws recollections do 
relate to purchases and interactions that pre-date the ones that are the subject of this 
complaint. And I cant reasonably hold Shawbrook responsible for events or interactions for 
which there is no like claim under the CCA.
The investment allegation
The PR have made repeated reference to the Fractional Timeshare purchased by Mr and 
Mrs W in 2013, which they suggest ultimately resulted in Mr and Mrs W upgrading their 
points-based membership. They believe this reflects Mr and Mrs Ws strategy to increase 
their investment for a future return. 
As I said in my PD, it appears the Fractional product exchange was unwound within 2 
months of completion. And in any event, that transaction doesnt form part of this complaint. 
And it didnt as far as I can see, involve any funding from Shawbrook. As regards the 
subsequent upgrades of Mr and Mrs Ws points-based membership, it appears the first of 
those upgrades didnt occur until almost three years later. 
Ultimately, and as Ive already concluded in my PD, Ive found no evidence that D 
represented or sold the points-based upgrades as a financial investment. Whilst I 
acknowledge what Mr and Mrs W have said, the evidence provided from the time simply 
doesnt support that. Their motivation may well have been based upon a perception formed 
that an investment return could be achieved. But I cant fairly say that this was because of 
anything D said or did.Shawbrooks handling of the claim
The PR assert that Shawbrook didnt consider similar complaints when investigating Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim, as required within the FCAs DISP rules. The original claim was based upon 
allegations of misrepresentation and unfairness. These aspects are governed under various 
legislation. These include, the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and the UTCCR. As Ive 
explained in my PD, under the CCA, a like claim can be made against Shawbrook. So, these 
are legal claims.
The FCAs DISP rules apply to complaints about the provision of financial products and 
services. The subject of Mr and Mrs Ws legal claim is the purchase of timeshare products 
rather than any financial product or service. So, I would expect Shawbrook to handle and 
consider the claim as such. As far as I can see, thats what they did here. 
The alleged unfairness of the foreclosure clause(s)
The PR suggest it is incorrect to say that [D] does not exercise the [foreclosure clause]. To 
support this, theyve provided a redacted copy of a letter recently sent by D to another 
consumer. 
I dont believe I made any reference in my PD to D not exercising the foreclosure clause(s). 
Only that theres no evidence or assertion they did so in Mr and Mrs Ws case. I also dont 
see how the circumstances of, or Ds actions towards, another consumer has bearing upon 
what actually happened in Mr and Mrs Ws case. As I previously said, I dont think I need to 
formally decide this point because, even if the terms were unfair, I cant see theyve actually 
operated unfairly against Mr and Mrs W.
Whats more, D has (as I understand it) given Shawbrook an undertaking that consumers 
with complaints at this service, who still have points-based product membership, can choose 
to relinquish their membership without having to pay any of their outstanding annual 
management charges (if there are any) and without prejudice to their ongoing complaint. 
With that being the case, even if the terms criticised here are found to be unfair under the 
UTCCR, in the absence of evidence that the terms in question had been operated unfairly 
against Mr and Mrs W in practice, Ds undertaking would seem to go a long way to 
mitigating, if not resolving the unfairness that the terms might otherwise have led to.
Conclusion
Once again, I would like to assure the Mr and Mrs W that I have carefully and fully 
considered everything thats been said and provided. Having done so, Ive not been 
persuaded to vary from the findings in my PD. And because of that, I wont be asking 
Shawbrook to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman