DRN-2780677
The complaint
Miss O has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt manage her chargeback dispute 
properly. This meant she lost her opportunity to get proper redress.
What happened
In July 2019 Miss O paid £11,997 for a 12-month property training programme. She attended 
an initial two-day crash course but was quickly dissatisfied with the service she was 
receiving. She didnt think this was what shed been led to expect so she was looking for a 
full refund.
She approached Barclays as shed paid for the course with her debit card. They started the 
chargeback process on the basis shed not received the service shed paid for. The supplier 
of the training course pushed back and stated Miss O only had a short period to request a 
refund under the courses terms and conditions.
Barclays shared the suppliers response with Miss O and asked for her further comments. 
Miss O responded to Barclays. She supplied detailed evidence to show why she didnt think 
she was getting what shed been promised. Although Barclays received this evidence, they 
managed to mislay it and didnt proceed with the chargeback any further. They apologised to 
Miss O and paid her £161.88 for her postage costs and compensation for their error.
Miss O then brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She felt Barclays error had 
meant shed lost out on her right to a refund.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence, which included what Miss O had originally provided 
Barclays to back up her claim for an arbitration through the chargeback process. Overall she 
didnt think this would have resulted in a successful refund so wasnt going to ask Barclays 
to do anything further.
Miss O didnt agree with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to review her complaint 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Im aware Miss O knows that when we consider disputes like his, we look at whether the 
bank involved met the rules of chargeback schemes, set up by the international card 
schemes. Ive got no ability to change these rules so must review to see whether Barclays 
applied these fairly when looking at what happened. Its also fair to say that the chargeback 
rules do not guarantee a right of refund and very much rely on written evidence.  
A lot of the background and facts of the case were covered in our investigators view of 
21 April 2021. I wont be repeating everything that was said there but rather concentrate on 
the aspects which impact the decision Im making.
I dont doubt Miss O believes the training course didnt deliver what she expected  
specifically mentoring and 1-1 sessions with the leader of the course. Miss O provided our 
investigator with detailed submissions about what she felt she didnt get and Ive reviewed 
these carefully. Shes also told us of the research shes done which shows a number of 
people whove signed up to this course historically have become unhappy with what theyve 
got and feel theyve been scammed.
I dont dispute thats the case. But based on the contract Miss O signed I can see why the 
supplier was successful in rejecting her chargeback claim. Theres nothing under the terms 
which give her a right of refund after seven days of signing the contract.  
Ive looked at what would have happened if Barclays had properly loaded the evidence 
Miss O provided to assist her chargeback claim. Unfortunately theres nothing Ive seen in 
what she provided to us that makes me believe her claim would have been successful at the 
arbitration stage. If anything the evidence confirms Miss O had changed her mind and didnt 
feel the course was suited to her. Im also confident the supplier would have mounted a 
robust defence of the service Miss O purchased.
Like our investigator Ive considered whether Barclays pursued a chargeback on the 
incorrect basis. They could have decided that it would have been more appropriate to make 
a claim under misrepresentation rather than service not received. But as most of Miss Os 
evidence to back up her claim is verbal rather than written, and knowing the way the 
chargeback rules operate, I think its unlikely this would have made any difference.
Theres also limited opportunity within the chargeback rules to challenge a contract on the 
basis of any unfair terms.
I can understand why Miss O believes shes been scammed but unfortunately I dont believe 
the chargeback rules would ever have resolved this the way shed have liked. 
I know Barclays provided some compensation to Miss O for the error they made. I think this 
was fair and reasonable. On this basis I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Os complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman