DRN-3570501
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy with the way Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) has dealt with a 
number of alleged fraudulent transactions that appeared on her credit card.
What happened
Ms F believes that someone from Capital One had access to her credit card account and 
now there are a number of alleged fraudulent transactions on her credit card. She says not 
only has she been charged for these transactions, but for additional interest too. She says 
her account would be up to date or in credit if these transactions hadnt taken place. Ms F 
wants all monies owed on her credit card account wiped clear and any associated debt 
related markers wiped from her credit record. 
Capital One reviewed Ms Fs account. It identified seven transactions that Ms F says she 
didnt make, and it refunded these amounts plus any interest incurred on these specific 
transactions only. It also offered Ms F £50 in compensation for some misinformation it 
provided to her at the start of the investigation. 
Ms F was unhappy with this resolution, so she brought a complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. The investigator confirmed that Capital One 
had identified and refunded seven disputed amounts. The investigator felt that Capital One 
hadnt fully considered the impact its original error had on Ms F. The investigator asked 
Capital One to increase the compensation amount to £150 in total.
Capital One agreed. But Ms F remained unhappy with this and she asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Ms F obtained this credit card in May 2016. The first transaction that raises suspicion takes 
place on 4 March 2019. At this date the credit card had a negative balance of £176.40. A 
transaction of £7.99 is taken and then returned the following day, 5 March 2019. This 
transaction had no impact on the outstanding balance. So, after the normal transactions for 
the month of March were taken into account, there was a negative balance on the account in 
April 2019 with £174.98 owed.
The next suspicious transaction takes place on 7 September 2020. Again, its the same type 
of transaction for £7.99. The next questionable transaction takes place on 7 November 2020, 
and this same transaction takes place monthly from November 2020 to April 2021 for an 
amount of £7.99 each time. So, seven questionable transactions in total.
Looking at the statements provided I can see that in April 2021 Capital One refunded these 
seven transactions. Capital One also refunded a total interest amount of £2.31 relating to 
interest it charged on these seven transactions.
When Ms F complained in May 2021, she said she was being charged £4.09 interest for 
each fraudulent transaction. She said the interest refund isnt enough and she wanted a full 
refund. Ms F also says she was misinformed about the number of questionable transactions 
on her account, and this caused her added distress, as what Capital One told her didnt 
match up to what was happening on her account. Ms F says her account was £185 in credit 
in March 2021. But now even after all the refunds she still owed money on the credit card 
and she felt this wasnt right. 
So, let me set out some facts as presented on the file. Ms F had a negative balance of 
£185.16 on her credit card account on 14 March 2021, not a credit balance. This meant she 
owed £185.16 on this account. After Capital One refunded the seven disputed transactions 
plus interest on these transactions, and incorporated charges owed on the outstanding 
balance, Ms Fs balance stood at a negative balance of £132.14 or £132.14 owing as per the 
statement generated on 14 April 2021.
I appreciate Ms F wants her balance cleared. She says that she should be in credit for the 
amount of suspicious transactions that were refunded. She says Capital One continuously 
added interest onto her balance and she doesnt owe this money.
But looking at the statements I cant see that Capital One has made any miscalculations. 
Before there were any questionable transactions, there was an amount owing through 
legitimate purchases Ms F made, and interest had accumulated on the balances since the 
account began. Ms F has been paying a monthly minimum direct debit payment on this 
amount. But sometimes this isnt paid on time, and the account incurs a late payment fee. 
And from what I can see Capital One is also charging a monthly interest amount on the 
outstanding balance owed on the card. And this rolls over month after month. From the 
evidence provided I can see that Capital One has refunded all disputed transactions 
correctly, plus any interest incurred. Any monies now left outstanding is money owed on this 
credit card outside of any disputed transactions. As such I wont be asking Capital One to 
refund anything further on this account. The amount that now remains outstanding is 
legitimate and its Ms Fs responsibility to deal with it appropriately. 
Capital One initially awarded £50 in compensation for the distress caused by an error it 
made when discussing the number of suspicious transactions on this account. I appreciate 
that Ms F was distressed when she realised there was potential fraud on her account. This 
isnt a nice thing to happen and I can see why Ms F was worried. But theres nothing to 
suggest Capital One played any part in these suspicious transactions. And once they came 
to light, Capital One investigated the issue and refunded the amounts taken. However, Im 
also conscious that our investigator suggested an increase in compensation to £150 in total 
for the misinformation Capital One gave to Ms F. Our investigator felt that £50 wasnt 
enough to address this. And Capital One has agreed this is fair. Because of this Im not 
going to interfere with the recommendation made by our investigator. Capital One should 
now pay compensation of £150 in total (less any compensation already paid) to Ms F as 
previously agreed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Capital One (Europe) plc to:
Pay £150 (in total, less any amount already paid) in compensation as agreed to Ms F 
for the reasons Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman