DRN-3301491
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to refund a transaction he
didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr S contacted Halifax and told them hed noticed a payment leaving his account when he
checked his online banking app after leaving work. He told Halifax that his card was stuck in
an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and once hed noticed the withdrawal, he froze his card
using the mobile app and contacted Halifax about it.
The call handler couldnt understand how the card was stuck in a machine  and why there
was a gap in notifying Halifax about it. Mr S then explained that it wasnt him who was using
the card because he was at work. It was his wife  Mrs P, who was using the card at the
ATM when it got stuck. Mr S said his wife couldnt get through to him at work and it was only
when he got home that he became aware of the problem. It was at that stage he looked at
his online account, to see the unrecognised withdrawal.
It was established during the call that Mr S thought someone was standing behind his wife
and they may have filmed her using the ATM. Mr S was asked if his wife used the Personal
Identification Number (PIN) at the ATM before it was taken by the machine. Mrs S confirmed
that shed only entered two digits before it disappeared. Shed also spoken to employees at
the business where the ATM was located, but they couldnt do anything about the card.
Halifaxs records showed that an undisputed transaction was made at the business where
the ATM was located, prior to the loss of the card  and four minutes later the disputed
transaction took place at a different ATM nearby. The correct PIN was used to check the
account balance. The first attempt to take money failed and when the amount was reduced
by £10, the ATM dispensed the money. A balance of about £50 was left in Mr Ss account
after the withdrawal.
Halifax declined to make a refund and told Mr S that they couldnt see how anyone could
have found out the PIN number. They advised him to report the matter to the police and go
back to the business to check if they had any cameras overlooking the ATM.
Mr S continued to dispute the withdrawal and found it difficult to get through to Halifax to
discuss his claim. He eventually complained about the lack of refund and the time taken to
deal with his issue.
Halifax continued to believe Mr S was responsible for the transaction but accepted that Mr S
had had difficulties when trying to contact them about the issue and paid £50 compensation
to him.
Mr S remained unhappy with how Halifax had dealt with his problem and brought his
complaint to our service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our
investigators who though that it was reasonable for Halifax to hold Mr S responsible for the
transaction.
Our investigator considered the issue of gross negligence where he thought that by giving
his card and PIN to his wife, Mr S had breached the conditions on the account. This would
make Mr S liable for the transactions. Our investigator issued a second report and
considered the compensation Halifax paid to Mr S, where he thought this was a reasonable
way for Halifax to deal with the level of service Mr S experienced and didnt recommend any
changes.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators outcome and wanted to clarify that his wife had
entered the full PIN into the ATM before it was taken. He argued that his wife shouldnt be
considered a third party and wanted to amend some of the dates the investigator had
referred to.
Mr S wanted his complaint reviewing and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Halifax can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case,
Halifax have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make the
transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Halifax and Mr S agreed to use the card for transactions.
For example, when using the card and PIN together, Halifax agree to accept that this is a
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make
the payment on their behalf. The transaction in this case used the genuine card and the
correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transaction was
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Halifax to hold Mr
S responsible, for example if the card was used without his permission.
The first aspect Id like to clarify is the issue of Mr S giving his card and PIN to his wife. Hes
argued that as theyre married, its virtually impossible for the PIN not to become known to
his wife and she shouldnt be considered a third party.
Regarding the use of the term third party  this is a general term used for anyone other
than the account holder  whatever theyre relationship to the actual account holder. So, I
dont think the use of it in the context of the investigation is anything other than a description
of someone who wasnt the account holder.
Mr S agreed to Halifaxs terms and conditions when he opened the account and theyre
explicit when it comes to securing the debit card and any security information  including the
PIN. In summary, they require the account holder to keep them secure and not reveal them
to anyone else. Whilst I appreciate the situation in a domestic context, that the PIN number
become known to Mr Ss wife, thats different to handing Mrs P the card with the PIN for her
to withdraw funds from the account.
Halifax rely on the proper use of the devices (debit card) and related security information to
determine if the instructions they receive are legitimate. For example, when the genuine card
and PIN are used at an ATM  Halifax accept this is the account holder making the
transaction and release the money from the account. If it had been Mr S using the ATM, hewould have been able to either contact Halifax straight away and block his card or use the
freeze function on his app to temporarily block his own card as he did later when he got
home from work. Halifax werent aware that Mr Ss wife was using the account, this meant
she had no authority to contact them about a problem or use the banking app to freeze the
card. Because there was a delay reporting the card, this prevented Halifax from protecting
the account in the same way it could have if Mr S had been using it.
But, the user of an account can give their card and PIN to someone else without notifying
their bank, which Mr S did on this occasion. Whilst that is highly likely to be against the terms
and conditions, it creates a situation where Mr S has given apparent authority to his wife.
What that means in practice is that whatever use his wife puts the card to  Mr S accepts
responsibility for it.
Coming to the events leading to the disputed transaction, Mr S explained to Halifax that his
wife had used the ATM and after putting two of the four digits into the ATM, it took her card.
Mr Ss wife went into the shop to tell them about it and they advised contacting the bank. Mr
S explained that his wife couldnt get through to him at work, which is why he didnt find out
about the transaction until he arrived home.
Mr S told Halifax that he thought someone had filmed his wife and she confirmed there was
someone about a metre behind her at the ATM. The records show that Mr Ss wife also used
the card to make a contactless payment at the shop. During the call with the fraud team,
they asked Mr S about what happened at the ATM. Mr S can be heard asking his wife what
shed done at the ATM with the PIN. Mr S then explains that his wife only put two digits of
the PIN into the ATM before it was swallowed. In a later conversation with our investigator,
Mr S said his wife didnt put the PIN into the ATM before it swallowed her card. But, in
response to the investigators outcome, Mr S then said that his wife did put the PIN into the
ATM.
So, its unclear what actually happened with the PIN at the ATM because thereve been
three versions of how the PIN was used. Im inclined to think the first response Mr Ss wife
gave him when he was on the phone was probably the most accurate. Thats on the grounds
that it was shortly after the events and would have been her freshest memory. What that
means here is that without the full PIN, its unlikely anyone could correctly guess the rest of
it.
Ive also considered the possibility that the full PIN was entered and how these events could
have then happened. I dont think it would be easy for someone to film Mr Ss wife who was
standing a metre behind her because her body would naturally block the view from behind.
But, assuming that someone could successfully film the PIN, they would have had to wait for
her to leave the ATM and go into the shop before approaching the ATM and removing the
card  which had since reappeared. Its not clear how long Mr Ss wife was at the ATM, but
in the circumstances this would likely have been a minute or two because if an ATM
swallowed the card, the card user probably wouldnt abandon the ATM straight away as
theyd be hoping their card would reappear. That doesnt leave much time for someone to
take the card, travel to the other machine and review their footage from their camera to
identify the PIN before using the card. So, I think this is an unlikely version of what happened
because I dont think Mr Ss wife used her full PIN in the ATM, which means it would be
unlikely that anyone else could correctly guess the rest of it.
Whilst I cant say for sure what happened at the ATM, I dont think it changes my
assessment of the complaint and thats because Mr S had given his PIN and card to his wife
without Halifax being aware of this arrangement. Because hed done that, he was in breach
of the terms on the account and was responsible for her use of the card. He had, in effect,
increased the risk of losing money without Halifax being aware of the arrangement. In thecircumstances I cant say it would be fair for Halifax to refund the money when the card was
used in this way because Halifax werent in a position to do anything to protect the account,
which they could have done if it was Mr S using the card. My current thinking is that Im not
intending to uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr S and Halifax to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Halifax didnt have anything further to add and Mr 
S reiterated his position that hed allowed his wife to use the card when he lost his funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. Id also add that Mr S had complained about the customer service he 
received at the time, which Halifax acknowledged in their final response letter. Mr S 
experienced longer wait times which Halifax explained was due to the change in working 
conditions as a result of the pandemic. Halifax paid £50 compensation for their customer 
service issues and offered to pay for the cost of calls made by Mr S. I think in the 
circumstances this was a reasonable offer and wont be asking them to do anything further.
So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman