DRN-2547473
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) will only accept instructions via 
telephone to release a fixed term deposit.
What happened
Mr F opened a two-year fixed deposit account with Tesco. The account matured in June 
2020, but when Mr F attempted to contact Tesco to arrange for the funds to be transferred, 
he was advised that Tesco could only take instructions to transfer funds via telephone. Mr F 
was unhappy with this restriction and so he made a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mr Fs complaint, but they noted that it was a feature of this this type of 
account that a telephone instruction would be required in these circumstances and so they 
felt that it was appropriate for them to continue to require one, and so they didnt uphold Mr 
Fs complaint. Mr F wasnt happy with Tescos response, so he referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that the account terms and 
conditions didnt specify that a telephone instruction would be required, but they felt that 
other literature provided by Tesco did advise that this would be the case, and also that it was 
within Tescos remit to insist on a telephone instruction as part of their process if they felt 
that this was necessary. So, they didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint either.
Mr F remained dissatisfied and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for 
essentially the same reasons.
While I acknowledge that the terms and conditions of the account could be more specific in 
explaining that a telephone instruction would be required in order to transfer the funds at 
account maturity, I dont feel that these terms are materially misleading or inaccurate. I also 
note that other documents provided by Tesco, such as the account opening letter and the 
letter advising that the account is approaching maturity, do confirm that an instruction would 
need to be provided by telephone, and provide Mr F with the number to contact Tesco.
Mr F has advised that he doesnt consider telephone verification to be as secure as other 
methods, and this is one reason why he would like to provide an instruction via other 
channels. However, while I can understand Mr Fs reasoning, Tesco are entitled to hold a 
different opinion and so are entitled to insist on a telephone instruction as a part of their own 
verification process.
Mr F is also of the opinion that the terms of the account confirm that it matures into an 
instant access account, but that because Tesco are insisting on a telephone instruction, 
which he doesnt want to give, they are in fact restricting his access to that account. Mr F 
also points out that he holds an instant access account with Tesco and that this allows online 
instructions to be given, and so Tesco arent being consistent here with regard their instant 
access accounts.
However, instant access is a term that applies to any account where the account holder has 
instant access to the funds held in the account. It doesnt refer to a specific account type, as 
Mr F appears to be suggesting here.
When the account type that Mr F held matures, it converts into a standard Tesco account, 
and one of features of such a standard account is that it is instant access. This means that 
the account does become instant access at maturity, because following maturity Mr F can 
access the funds in his account instantly. However, in this instance the access is dependent 
on Mr F contacting Tesco by telephone. This restriction doesnt mean that the account isnt 
instant access, but rather that it is an instant access account with a specified method of 
access - being by telephone.
Given that Mr F resides abroad I can understand that it may be inconvenient for him to have 
to contact Tesco by telephone, but I dont feel that Tesco should have to deviate from their 
procedure in requiring a telephone instruction because of this. 
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Tesco have acted unreasonably or unfairly here. I 
understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr F was hoping for, but I cant agree that 
Tesco have withheld access to his account because they have consistently advised that Mr 
F can provide an instruction to them to transfer the funds as he wishes. The point of 
contention here is that Tesco are insisting that any such instruction must be provided by 
telephone, and Mr F doesnt want to make such a telephone call. 
But Tesco are within their rights to insist that any instruction be made by telephone, and so I 
cant fairly censure them for enforcing this requirement. I also dont feel that the literature of 
the account was materially misleading and note that the requirement that a telephone 
instruction be provided was present on several documents. It follows then, that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Tesco to take any further action at this time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman