DRN-3436645
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. handled her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs G was on holiday abroad when she fell and sustained a head injury which led to her
being hospitalised. She had a number of symptoms associated with the injury including
concussion, loss of peripheral vision and loss of hearing in one ear.
She is unhappy with the service she received from Mapfre. In summary, she says Mapfre
acted in a way that would have potentially led to life changing injuries, didnt engage with her
within reasonable timeframes, caused her unnecessary stress and that they provided
insufficient support whilst she was abroad. She says that Mapfre booked to bring her home
before she was safely able to fly.
Mapfre looked into what had happened and acknowledged that there had been issues with
an appointment arranged for Mrs G to determine if she was fit to fly. They also
acknowledged that they hadnt explained their rationale for wanting to bring her back to the
UK and they could have explained themselves better. They offered Mrs G £400
compensation and offered to cover some of the costs of medical tests and reasonable
accommodation costs up until 25 October 2019, when Mapfre consider Mrs G was fit to fly
home.
Unhappy, Mrs G complained to our service. She said she wants Mapfre to pay £5500 for the
stress and trauma, £10 000 for medical damages, hospital benefit, £960 living expenses, the
cost of a CT scan and the cost of a blood test.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She upheld the complaint as she wasnt
satisfied that Mapfre had explained their decisions clearly, based on the medical evidence.
So, she thought that Mapfre should pay a further £200 compensation and consider her claim
for medical damages and living expenses in line with the remaining policy terms.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said that the effects of the accident and Mapfres actions had a
devastating impact on her health and she was seeing several specialists to deal with the
physical and mental impact. She didnt think a further £200 fairly reflected this. And, she said
that it had taken Mapfre one year and two months to respond to her complaint. Mrs G was
also concerned that the investigators conclusions painted her in an unfavourable light  she
said that shed seen all the doctors that the Mapfre team arranged for her to see and it
wasnt her fault that they wouldnt take responsibility for completing forms requested by
Mapfre. Mrs G was also unhappy as she said her injuries could have been a lot worse,
Mapfre kept on contacting her by phone and she said she found their emails threatening.
Mapfre didnt agree and provided a response from their Chief Medical Officer (CMO). They
said Mrs G hadnt been admitted to hospital and there was never any suggestion from the
medical reports that she was suffering with serious effects from the head injury. They
referred to the International Air Transport Association (IATA) medical manual and explained
that concussion is not affected by airline travel. Furthermore, they said that the purpose of
seeking a medical review was to reassure Mrs G that it was safe to fly. Mapfre reiterated that
it was acting in Mrs Gs best interests at all times and questioned whether it was the role of
the investigator to question the medical decision made by a registered doctor.
In February 2020 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was intending to reach a 
different outcome to the investigator. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Repatriation
Mapfre offers immediate help and support to policyholders who fall ill abroad. 
Accordingly, the assistance teams act as the first contact point for policyholders who 
experience a medical emergency abroad. In some cases, this may involve the claims 
handler seeking guidance from the medical team on the policyholders behalf. That 
includes seeking their guidance on decisions about authorising expenditure on 
medical treatment and repatriation.
Mapfres CMO has expressed concerns about whether the conclusions the 
investigator reached go beyond the remit of our service because it calls into question 
the medical opinion of their team or specific individuals within it.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts which is set up to 
resolve disputes quickly and with minimal formality. My role is to consider what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case  taking into account any relevant 
law, regulation and guidance  and I have to decide whether a business acted fairly 
and reasonably. 
In making that decision, I cant substitute expert medical evidence with my own, but 
I am entitled to look at all the evidence and decide whether I think Mapfre handled 
Mrs Gs claim as I think it should have. I dont consider that the fact that some of the 
individuals in this case were doctors who gave advice that was expressed in terms 
of medical risk prevents me from examining all the evidence. Nor have I found that, 
on the particular facts of this complaint, its medical context has prevented me from 
being able to reach a decision that I am satisfied is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Mapfre has acknowledged that they didnt communicate some of their decisions to 
Mrs G as clearly as they could have done. In their final response they said that 
they thought Mrs G was fit to fly as of 25 October 2019. Mrs G didnt return back to 
the UK until early December 2019.
Its clear from the correspondence Ive seen that Mrs G was in a stressful and 
upsetting situation. She was travelling on her own and sustained a head injury 
which, according to the notes, knocked her unconscious. It led to her staying in 
hospital for around two days, based on the evidence Ive seen, and left her with 
hearing and visual problems. Ive also seen a picture of the injury, it was clearly a 
significant one. Her children werent in a position to come and help Mrs G as they 
were unable to take time off work.I appreciate that Mrs G was told that she wouldnt be able to fly for a period of three 
weeks. And, I can understand why she was worried when Mapfre told her that 
theyd be looking to bring her back to the UK before then, particularly when she was 
still feeling very unwell.
Mrs G attended an appointment on 10 October 2019. The doctors she saw wouldnt 
sign a fit to fly form and the specialist recommended an MRI scan. At that point in 
time Mrs G was still reporting significant issues with her sight and balance. So, its 
understandable Mrs G was worried and confused when Mapfre then told her on the 
evening of 11 October 2019 that theyd booked a flight for her the next day. As 
Mapfre acknowledged in their final response letter I think this should have been 
explained, and discussed with, Mrs G. She refused to get on the flight and remained 
abroad.
On 15 October 2019 Mrs G attended the accident and emergency department over 
concerns about her continuing symptoms. The notes indicate that the treating 
doctor recommended a referral for further tests, although the report doesnt indicate 
with what urgency they should be made. There is also a note that Mrs G wouldnt 
be fit to fly until the 3 November 2019.
Having read the more recent, and detailed, explanation for the decision to return 
Mrs G to the UK Im satisfied that Mapfre were acting with Mrs Gs best interests in 
mind when they made the decision to return her to the UK. Theyve referred to the 
IATA guidelines and other supporting evidence in support of their position.
However, I think that Mapfre could have communicated their reasons for disagreeing 
with the treating doctors opinion much more clearly. I particularly bear in mind that 
there was no evidence of the rationale noted on the file at the time and so Mrs G 
was simply told on a number of occasions that the decision had been made and it 
was final. This was at a time when she continued to feel very unwell and had 
experienced a significant head injury. I think this decision, and the discussion with 
Mrs G, could have been handled with more empathy. No one took the time to 
communicate to Mrs G why the medical team had made their decision, what 
evidence theyd relied on or why their opinion was different to the treating doctor. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken into account that Mrs G had been referred for 
further tests and was being told by the treating team that she wasnt fit to fly. 
Taking all of the above into account I still think that Mrs G should receive a total of 
£600 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused when Mrs G was told she was 
well enough to return home on two occasions, without a clear explanation about the 
reasons for reaching that caused her additional worry at an already upsetting and 
stressful time.
Medical assistance
I appreciate that Mrs G was frustrated she had to go through data protection checks 
and that she couldnt be assigned a dedicated person to speak to. I understand Mrs 
Gs frustrations but the nature of the assistance service and the function it performs 
means that it has to ensure it operates on a 24 hour a day, 7 days a week basis. 
And it also involves handling sensitive data about the policyholders health. So, I 
cant say that Mapfre acted unfairly in asking her questions to verify her identity and 
not allocating her a dedicated case handler.I understand that Mrs G was frustrated to receive a lot of calls from Mapfre. But Im 
satisfied that in trying to make contact with Mrs G they were trying to ensure that she 
was receiving appropriate assistance from them.
Ive also looked at the emails sent to Mrs G and I dont think that they were 
threatening or inappropriate. Although Mapfre did explain theyd close their file, for 
example during a time when Mrs G wasnt contacting them, I dont think the tone or 
content of the emails was inappropriate. When Mrs G let Mapfre know that she was 
becoming stressed and upset by calls I think they took appropriate steps and 
contacted her by email. And, for example, when Mrs G expressed concerns about 
being asked to attend a medical appointment, I think Mapfre explained to her why 
they thought that was necessary.
Delays in complaint handling
Mrs G first complained to Mapfre during September 2019 when her repatriation 
was ongoing. But a final response letter wasnt issued to her until December 2020. 
In the final response letter Mapfre apologised for the delay but didnt elaborate on 
the reasons for it which suggests its most likely that they accept there was a 
significant delay in this being dealt with. I can understand that this added to Mrs Gs 
frustration given the issues shed had with Mapfres previous communications.
Hospital benefit
Mrs G hasnt completed a claim form and sent it to Mapfre. The policy will pay a 
set benefit for each complete 24 hours that a policyholder is hospitalised as an 
inpatient. I understand that Mrs G was admitted to hospital on 28 September 2019 
and discharged on 30 September 2019. So, given the passage of time, I think 
Mapfre should pay hospital benefit to Mrs G for each complete 24 hours she spent 
in hospital.
Living expenses
Mrs G told us that during her extended stay she stayed with acquaintances. So, shes 
asked for Mapfre to pay her around £960 based on the cost of living expenses in the 
city she was living in.
The policy terms dont provide for living costs in such circumstances. Mapfre only 
needs to cover actual costs Mrs G incurred which are covered by the policy. 
However, Mapfre did say that they were willing to consider a claim for Mrs Gs 
expenses up until 25 October 2019 as they considered that was the date that she 
was fit to fly home. 
Mrs G didnt incur hotel or other accommodation costs. And I also note that she 
didnt, for example, ask her insurer to fly a family member across to help support her 
during her recovery. So, it seems most likely to me that her decision to stay with 
acquaintances saved Mapfre a considerable amount of money in the circumstances. 
Therefore, I think their offer to consider her expenses is reasonable. I appreciate that 
Mrs G has used a calculation to work out what the cost of living was. But her contract 
of insurance only covers losses she actually incurred of costs she incurred for 
Mapfre to assess.
Personal injury claimMrs G has indicated that she wants to make a claim on the personal accident 
section of the policy as shes told us that she has continued to have physical 
symptoms relating to her injury abroad. I understand from what shes said that shes 
been unable to return to work.
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with Mrs G hasnt yet submitted a claim 
to Mapfre under this section of the policy. So, Mapfre hasnt had the opportunity to 
consider the claim and whether Mrs G meets the criteria set out in the policy. If Mrs 
G wants to make a claim under that section of the policy, shell need to submit a 
claim form to Mapfre together with any relevant evidence in support of it.
Medical expenses
Mrs G has claimed for the cost of a blood test and a CT scan, totalling £56. Looking 
at the date of the payments made relate to costs incurred on 29 November 2019 
and 3 December 2019.
These costs were incurred nearly two months after the accident and Ive not been 
provided with an explanation as to why they were incurred. And, in any event, for the 
reasons Ive outlined above I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude 
that by the end of October Mrs G would have been reasonably able to return home.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct Mapfre to put things right by paying Mrs G:
The hospital benefit shes entitled to in line with the policy terms and conditions 
plus 8% simple interest from 25 October 2019 to the date of settlement.
£600 for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor communication at a 
time when Mrs G was unwell, distressed and alone abroad. My award also 
takes into account the comments Mrs G made about the delay in responding to 
her complaint.
As Ive outlined above if Mrs G wishes to pursue a personal injury claim and 
recover other costs shell need to submit a claim for this to Mapfre with the relevant 
supporting documentation. 
Mapfre accepted my provisional decision. Mrs G made a number of further comments and 
provided more evidence. In summary she said: 
She was admitted to hospital for 48 hours and there was a possible blood 
clot. She was referred for further tests which she arranged without help 
from Mapfre 
I should take into account the Vento compensation band which says that 
the minimum award for injury to feelings is £1000. The range is between 
£900 and £9100 and her original claim for £5500 is around the middle of 
this range. My award of £600 adds to the feelings of insult caused by the 
situation 
It was threatening to tell a very ill person that they must fly  all 
communication was directed at a person who had experienced an accident 
and wasnt able to fully co-operate The living costs she incurred should be paid beyond 25 October 2019 
She is worried that Mapfre will not consider the personal injury claim and 
she doesnt feel comfortable submitting a claim. Mapfre should fast track 
the claim and should be directed to consider it without further delay and 
without further forms needing to be completed
The scan and blood test costs should be paid as it wasnt unreasonable for 
her to seek treatment and undertake tests ordered by the doctor. 
So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further evidence and information provided by Mrs G I havent 
changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. I think the fairest way for Mapfre 
to put things right is to pay £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused plus the hospital 
benefit. I say that because: Mapfre accepted my provisional findings  it is accepted that Mrs G was admitted to 
hospital and that she had a head injury. So, this point is no longer in dispute and my 
decision has been made on the basis that Mrs G was treated in hospital for a head 
injury 
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Whilst 
Mrs G has referred me to the Vento guidelines on the Citizens Advice Bureau 
website. Im not bound by these guidelines and, in any event, I dont think that they 
fairly apply in the circumstances of this case. The Vento guidelines are bands of 
awards for injury to feelings relating to successful claims for discrimination under the 
Equality Act 2010. This case relates to the distress and inconvenience caused by 
claims handling by a travel insurer. So, I dont consider that these guidelines fairly 
apply in the circumstances of this case
As I outlined in my provisional decision I dont think that the tone or content of 
Mapfres communications with Mrs G were inappropriate. I can understand that it was 
a worrying and stressful time for her, especially when she was feeling unwell and 
given that Ive identified that Mapfre could have explained the reasons behind the 
decisions they were making to her more clearly. Having taken all of the this into 
account I think £600 fairly reflects the overall distress and inconvenience caused. In 
reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account what Mrs G has said about the 
impact on her and how she was feeling during the relevant time 
I remain satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Mrs G to submit her claim for living 
expenses to Mapfre for them to consider. Mrs G says that these should be paid 
beyond 25 October 2019. Although I agreed that Mapfre could have communicated 
more clearly to Mrs G the reasons why she should be repatriated back to the UK it 
doesnt automatically follow that I agree all of her living expenses should be paid until 
she came home in December 2019. Mapfre did say to Mrs G on 25 October 2019 
that they considered her fit to fly on that date. I can see that this was based on a 
review of the medical evidence by Mapfres medical panel. So, I think Mapfre has 
reasonably offered to consider any living expenses up until that date. Equally, as the 
evidence indicates that it would have been reasonable for Mapfre to repatriate her at 
that point in time I dont think its fair and reasonable for them to cover the costs of 
the additional medical tests
I can understand why Mrs G is worried about making a personal injury claim and why 
she wants Mapfre to assess the claim without having to fill out more paperwork. Ive 
looked at the medical information Mrs G provided us with in response to my 
provisional decision. But Mapfre hasnt yet had the opportunity to assess the claim. 
And its likely to involve a detailed review of the relevant medical evidence. Mapfre 
may also need to request more medical information from Mrs G and/or her treating 
doctors. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to make a finding at this stage on the 
personal injury claim. Mrs G will need to submit her claim in the usual way, 
completing any paperwork Mapfre requires 
As I outlined in my provisional decision Mrs G will need to submit a claim for any 
further costs she wants to claim from Mapfre, such as her accommodation and 
personal injury claim costs. If she remains unhappy with the settlement then she may 
be able to bring a further complaint in relation to the settlement of the claim. Putting things right
Mapfre needs to put things right by paying Mrs G:
The hospital benefit shes entitled to in line with the policy terms and conditions 
plus 8% simple interest per annum from 25 October 2019 to the date of 
settlement.
£600 for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor communication at a 
time when Mrs G was unwell, distressed and alone abroad. My award also 
takes into account the comments Mrs G made about the delay in responding to 
her complaint.
As Ive outlined above if Mrs G wishes to pursue a personal injury claim and recover other 
costs, shell need to submit a claim for this to Mapfre with the relevant supporting 
documentation. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. and direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman