DRN-4039233
The complaint
Mr P complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited further damaged his van after 
it was recovered following a claim on his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants it to 
pay for the van to be repaired. 
What happened
Mr Ps van was stolen and later recovered damaged. Markerstudys agent then collected it 
and Mr P later bought back the salvage. He said the van had been further damaged whilst it 
was in the agents care. He wanted Markerstudy to pay for the repairs. Markerstudy said 
there had been other damage to the van that it wasnt responsible for. It offered Mr P £300 
towards the cost of repairs. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
evidence showed that the van had been damaged before Markerstudy took custody of it. But 
some further damage to the bumper had occurred whilst in the agents care. So she thought 
Markerstudys offer of £300 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr P replied that there was no damage to the bumper before it was taken by Markerstudy. 
He wanted it to pay for a new bumper. Mr P asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P feels frustrated that it will cost about £4,000 for a new bumper for 
his van and Markerstudy will only contribute £300 towards this. He said he wouldnt have 
retained it if he was aware of this. So Ive considered if theres evidence of further damage to 
the van that Markerstudy was responsible for.
Mr P is adamant that the bumper wasnt damaged before Markerstudys agent collected it 
from him. But Im satisfied that this isnt supported by the evidence:
A report made after the van was recovered lists the damage including a scratched, 
dented and cracked front bumper with a part missing.
Mr P was interviewed by a claims investigator before the van was collected from him. He 
then told the investigator that there was damage to the vans steering, the drivers door, 
the front bumper was cracked, and the rear bumper was dented.
So I cant say that Markerstudy is responsible for all the damage caused to the vans 
bumper. But images taken before and after the van was in Markerstudys care show further 
damage to the front bumper where it has become detached on one side. So Im satisfied that 
Markerstudy is responsible for this further damage. 
Markerstudy said it couldnt carry out this repair separately from the other damage previously 
caused to the bumper. So Markerstudys engineer thought the agent should pay for the cost 
of the bumper to be reattached. He thought £300 was a reasonable sum to pay for this. I 
havent seen any evidence to contradict this. So I think thats fair and reasonable.
Mr P said there were scratches and scuffs around the van. But I cant say from the images 
provided when they might have occurred, before or after the van was collected by 
Markerstudys agent. So I cant reasonably hold Markerstudy responsible for the cost of their 
repair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman