DRN-3103334
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) poorly managed and administered his 
two pension plans. He said this led to the combined value of his plans falling by around 
£16,000 between April 2019 and April 2020. 
This decision only covers the areas of Mr Bs complaint that SW are responsible for. These 
are any points regarding the administration of the pension plans, including fund 
performance. Mr B complains in particular:
the £16,000 loss was due to poor investment advice. Mr B feels all charges should 
be refunded
He was wrongly advised to invest in the same funds for both of his pension plans
He couldnt register for an account to track his fund prices online
He was unhappy that SW had issued new statements which he felt would cost him 
more
He was unhappy with the funds hed been advised to invest in
His statements didnt state who his beneficiary was
He was unhappy that the level of risk he was taking wasnt stated on the new 
statements
At the time of taking out the pension he wasnt advised of the funds which incurred 
lower charges.
He wasnt told he could transfer his pensions to another plan or provider
He was concerned that SW would get commission or benefit if he transferred to 
another provider.
What happened
In 1989, Mr B received advice from another provider to transfer from his former employers 
occupational pension scheme to SW personal pension plans.
In 1999, the advice Mr B had received was reviewed as part of Pension Review. After the 
review, a pension guarantee was added to Mr Bs pension.
When Mr B got his annual statements for the two pension plans in April 2020, he said he 
was shocked to see that the combined value of the plans had fallen by around £16,000 since 
the previous statement. Mr B complained to SW in July 2020. He was unhappy with the 
administration and overall management of his pension plans. 
Some aspects of Mr Bs complaint werent the responsibility of SW, so they referred those 
aspects to the correct provider. SW responded to the relevant aspects of Mr Bs complaint in 
their 31 July 2020 final response letter. They didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about the fall in 
value of his plans. They said that fund performance couldnt be guaranteed. And that Mr Bs 
fund values had fallen because the assets that made up the fund he was invested in had 
fallen in value. 
Mr B remained unhappy. So he continued to seek answers from SW. SW responded again 
on 28 September 2020. They referred Mr Bs concerns regarding the original transfer advice 
hed received to a different team who they said would respond under a separate complaint 
reference. They didnt uphold the complaint. But provided answers to each of the ten points 
Mr B had raised, as follows:
-They said that the investment losses Mr B had experienced between 2019 and 2020 
were due to the performance of the chosen fund he was invested in. And that they 
were unable to compensate him for those losses as the performance wasnt 
guaranteed.  They said the advice part of the complaint would be answered in a 
separate advice complaint. 
-In response to Mr Bs position that the plans hed been advised to invest in allowed 
their company to get more commission, and that the two plans shouldve been 
invested completely differently, they said that the plans wouldnt have generated any 
more commission than any of the other funds available. 
-They said that Mr B had made them aware that hed been unable to register for an 
account to track the price of one of his funds. They said their online system didnt 
provide any means of doing this. But confirmed that the unit price for that fund was 
available on their website.
-They said that the changes to their statements had been made following guidance 
from their Regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority) to make statements clearer 
and more transparent to their customers. And that the changes had been made at no 
additional cost to clients.
-They said Mr Bs query around the funds hed been advised to invest in would be 
answered in the separate advice complaint.
-They said they were unable to see any Beneficiary detailed on Mr Bs plans. And this 
was being investigated by the department concerned.
-They said that Mr Bs level of risk hadnt changed as he was still invested in the same 
funds hed always been. They said that the removal of the level of risk of the funds 
from the statement hadnt changed anything.
-Regarding the level of charges in available funds, they said that they werent financial 
advisers and therefore couldnt advise customers of what may or may not be suitable 
for them. They said they did detail the charges and that this allowed either an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) or customer to make an informed decision. 
-They confirmed that Mr B did have the option to transfer his plans to another policy 
with SW or to another pension provider of his choosing.
-They confirmed that they received no profit or commission if a customer decided to 
transfer their pension to another provider.SW also said that theyd passed on Mr Bs questions about the guarantees on his pension 
policies to the Pensions Review Team to answer. They said that that team had said that a 
review of the advice to start Mr Bs Personal Pension Plans instead of remaining in his 
former employers pension scheme had resulted in his acceptance of their offer of a 
guarantee. They explained how the guarantee worked. 
Mr B remained unhappy. So he brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr B also sent a further reply to SW. He felt they still hadnt answered all his questions. He 
felt theyd added comments regarding his guarantees which were completely different to 
what theyd told him before. Mr B felt that SW had only sent their reply after hed complained 
to this service. Mr B felt that it was incorrect for SW to tell him he could transfer his pension 
policies, as he felt he would lose his guarantees on transfer. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She said that she hadnt 
considered Mr Bs complaint points about the advice hed received, as SW werent 
responsible for that advice. But confirmed that Mr B could request a separate complaint be 
set up regarding that advice. She felt that Mr Bs funds had fallen in value due to market 
movements at the time. And noted that the values had subsequently increased. She also 
didnt feel that SW had done anything wrong in relation to the administration or management 
of Mr Bs pension plans. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He felt he couldnt change his pension plans in any 
way without incurring penalties or losing his pension review guarantee. He also questioned 
why hed paid SW a management fee when theyd only made him aware of the reduction in 
the value of his pension plans 6-9 months after it occurred. Mr B made further points about 
the terms of the guarantee. 
Our investigator told Mr B that SW wasnt responsible for the terms and the application of the 
Pension Review Guarantee. And while she acknowledged Mr Bs comments that transferring 
his pension plans may mean losing the guarantee, she said that this didnt mean he couldnt 
physically transfer away from SW. Therefore she couldnt say that SW had prevented him 
from doing this. Our investigator also said that SW hadnt acted unfairly when they charged 
the management charge. She said this was because that charge covered the administration 
costs for Mr Bs pension plans. She said that part of that administration involved sending out 
the annual pension statement as required by the regulator. She acknowledged that the drop 
in fund value was only shown in the 2020 statements after the drop had occurred. But felt 
that it was reasonable that SW hadnt sent out a further statement before this. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will disappoint Mr B. But Ive 
seen no evidence that SW have done anything wrong. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that the main part of Mr Bs complaint against SW is that they managed and 
administered his pension plan assets poorly, resulting in a £16,000 fall in his plans value 
between 2019 and 2020. Ill look at this point first.
Fall in valueAs our investigator stated, the role of our service isnt to look at the investment performance 
itself. Each investment has a varying degree of risk. This means the value of any investment 
can go up and down over time. When the value of an investment does go down, this doesnt 
mean the pension provider has done anything wrong. But, while I havent been able to look 
at the investment performance itself, I have been able to consider if SW have made any 
errors in managing the investments.
Mr Bs pension plans have been invested in managed funds since he started the plans in 
1989. This means theyre invested in a range of different assets. 
Mr B said that the combined value of his two pension plans fell by almost £16,000 between 
his 2019 statement and his 2020 statement. While I acknowledge it wouldve been shocking 
to see this fall in value, its not surprising. Covid-19 had a big impact on investment markets 
in early 2020, leading to a large fall in investments in general. But, looking at Mr Bs pension 
plans performance shown on his 2021 statement, I can see that the combined value of his 
plans increased by more than £26,000 in the following year. Again, this is not particularly 
surprising, as investment markets generally rallied over this period.
Ive seen no evidence that SW mismanaged Mr Bs pension plans. Or that any action or 
omission by SW caused the fall in assets Mr B experienced between 2019 and 2020. And 
while I acknowledge that Mr B considers that SW shouldve been able to limit the impact of 
the global market fall on his funds, Im not persuaded that they couldve predicted the timing 
of the fall, or taken any action to limit the impact on their customers. I agree with our 
investigator that it was up to Mr B to decide how his pension was invested. And I also agree 
that although SW administer Mr Bs pension plans, they dont have an ongoing advisory role. 
Therefore they cannot review Mr Bs investments to ensure they remain suitable at all times. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr Bs pension plans were invested incorrectly by SW. From what 
Ive seen, theyve remained invested in the way they were set up. So Ive found no evidence 
of mismanagement by SW.
Ill now look at the specific complaint points Mr B has made about SWs administration of his 
plans.
Administration complaint
From what I can see, the following complaint points need to be considered:
Mr B couldnt register for an account to track his fund prices online
Mr B was unhappy that SW had issued new statements which he felt would cost him 
more
Mr Bs statements didnt state who his beneficiary was
Mr B was unhappy that the level of risk he was taking wasnt stated on the new 
statements
Mr B wasnt advised of the funds which incurred lower charges when he first took out 
his plans.
Mr B wasnt told he could transfer his pensions to another plan or provider
Mr B was concerned that SW would get commission or benefit if he transferred to 
another provider.Ill consider each of these points separately below. 
Registering for online access
Mr B said he was unable to set up his online account. This prevented him from tracking his 
fund prices as often as he wanted. 
SW said their online system didnt provide any means of doing this for one of Mr Bs funds. 
But confirmed that the unit price for that fund was available on their website.
From what Ive seen, SW arent obliged to provide this information through their online 
accounts. As our investigator said, we would still expect SW to make this information 
available to customers. As SW have done this  through their website  I cant uphold this 
part of Mr Bs complaint.
New statements more costly
Mr B complained that the new statements SW had issued would cost him more. SW said 
theyd made the changes following regulator guidance to make statements clearer. They 
also said that the changes had been made at no additional cost to clients.
As SW have confirmed that the new statements didnt cost Mr B any more money, I cant 
uphold this part of the complaint. 
Beneficiary not stated
Mr B said his statements didnt state who his beneficiary was. SW said they were 
investigating this part of his complaint.
I asked SW if theyd completed their investigations. They told this service that theyd 
reviewed Mr Bs policies but could find no record of a noted beneficiary. They also said 
theyd found no record of an expression of wish being provided to them until the form dated 
20 October 2020. SW confirmed that Mr Bs older statements hadnt shown any beneficiary. 
As Ive seen no evidence that SW did anything wrong here, I cant uphold this part of Mr Bs 
complaint. 
New statements omitted level of risk
I acknowledge that Mr B has found it unhelpful that the new statements no longer show the 
level of risk. But SW have confirmed that his level of risk hasnt changed since he started the 
plans. And that the removal of the level of risk of the funds from the statement hadnt 
changed anything.
While I understand why Mr B would prefer the level of risk to be shown on the statements, 
Im satisfied that SWs statements include all of the information that such statements must 
include. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask SW to add any further information 
to their statements. It should be noted that SW can provide any further information their 
customers might need if contacted directly.
Mr B wasnt told he could transfer
Mr B said he was unhappy that he hadnt been told he could transfer his plans to another 
plan within SW or to another provider. 
As our investigator noted, SW did confirm that Mr B could do this in their letter dated 28 September 2020. And their website also makes this clear. 
I acknowledge that Mr B feels that this service has failed to understand his pension review 
guarantee. He feels that if he transfers to a different provider, hell lose this guarantee. 
I dont have much information on Mr Bs guarantee. But I have seen a letter dated 13 
October 2020 from the provider of that guarantee. This letter stated:
Any redress due under the guarantee wont start to be calculated until one of the events on 
your guarantee occurs:
-Transfer
-Retirement 
-Death
So, from what Ive seen, the guarantee would be taken into account in the event of Mr B 
transferring to another provider. Mr B should of course check this with the guarantee 
provider, as I dont have all of the information.
In any event, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to find that SW hold any responsibility 
for the terms and the application of the pension review guarantee. This responsibility sits 
fully with the provider of that guarantee.
In summary, SW arent responsible for the pension review guarantee. And their website 
made it clear that Mr B could transfer. So Im not going to uphold this part of Mr Bs 
complaint.
SW didnt advise Mr B of funds with lower charges
Mr B said that SW didnt let him know he could invest in funds with lower charges than the 
ones he was investing in. 
SW said that they werent financial advisers. And that they couldnt advise customers of what 
may or may not be suitable for them. But that they detailed the charges so that a customer 
or an IFA could make an informed decision. 
From what Ive seen, charging information was readily available. SW act as administrators 
and managers of the pension plans but do not operate as financial advisers. Therefore it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect them to advise Mr B in any way. Therefore I cant 
uphold this part of the complaint. 
Would SW get commission if Mr B transferred? 
Mr B was concerned that if he transferred his pension plans, SW would get commission. SW 
have confirmed they wouldnt get commission. 
Their website also confirms that they wont charge a customer for transferring to another 
provider. Therefore, as this information was already available to Mr B, and as he wouldnt be 
charged for transferring, I cant uphold this part of his complaint. 
Additional point from Mr B
I acknowledge that Mr B has told this service hes received three separate letters from SW 
telling him that if he doesnt contact them before his 65th birthday, they will automatically extend his retirement age to 75, without his permission. He feels strongly that his retirement 
age is 65, not 75. I confirm that I agree with our investigator who has explained to Mr B that 
it's not unusual for a pension provider to let a customer know what may happen if they don't 
take their pension at the retirement date. And that this is something the regulator expects a 
pension provider to do. She explained that this ensures that a consumers pension remains 
invested if they need more time to decide on their options. She also explained that even if 
the retirement age were increased to age 75, it wouldn't mean that Mr B couldn't take his 
benefits before then.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, while I acknowledge that the complaint has 
caused several concerns for Mr B, Im not persuaded that SW have done anything wrong. 
Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman