DRN-3269938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account 
(URCA) in 2014 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say that they used the URCA very little and when they had a claim on their 
travel insurance turned down, they felt that the URCA was not what they had been led to 
believe it was.
Halifax says that it provided information to Mr and Mrs H about the URCA and Mr and Mrs H 
decided to take it out.
I wasnt present in the discussion both parties say took place about the URCA, so I can only 
base my decision on the evidence available today.
Both parties agree that Mr and Mrs H had a fee free account before 2014, and theres no 
suggestion by Mr and Mrs H that they were in any way forced to take the URCA out. So, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew they had a choice whether to open the 
URCA and they chose to do so.
Halifax has supplied a copy of the Your Interview Summary Document (YSID) it recorded 
and issued to Mr and Mrs H at the time. In my view the document indicates that Halifax 
highlighted both the free account it offered and the URCA with its cost and benefits. There is 
no indication that Halifax recommended the URCA to Mr and Mrs H. 
So, I think its more likely than not this was an information only sale and not an advised 
sale.
This means that Halifax was only required to provide Mr and Mrs H with enough information 
about the URCA to make an informed decision, and it was not required to ensure it was 
suitable for them.
Ive looked very carefully at whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H enough information about 
the URCA, and I think its more likely than not that it did.
I say this because both parties have described that a substantial discussion took place about 
the URCA. The YSID indicates that the costs and benefits were explained to Mr and Mrs H, 
and it refers to them needing to read the guide it was providing to understand the exclusions 
that would apply. 
Mr and Mrs H have said that they were interested in the travel insurance and used it. They 
also registered a mobile phone for cover and from what they say were in a position to make 
use of other benefits if they wished to. And they could have closed the URCA any time but 
kept it for several years.
So I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H received the information about the 
URCA in a form they could understand and there wasnt anything they werent told that 
would have caused them not to take it out.
So, while I know that Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed, in my view Halifax didnt do 
anything wrong in the sale of the URCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman