DRN-3321659
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted unfairly by applying overdraft 
charges when she had told it she was suffering from financial difficulties.
What happened
Ms G complained to Lloyds about the charges applied to her account when she was in 
financial hardship. Lloyds say all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. It says that it had offered her support by putting a hold on her 
account on three occasions and offering to stop the daily charges but this would require 
putting her account onto a long-term closure process which she didnt want. Lloyds also 
offered as a gesture of goodwill to refund £30 of fees which Ms G declined.
Ms G brought her complaint to this service. An ombudsman decided we only had jurisdiction 
to consider Ms Gs complaint about events which occurred between 31 October 2018 and 15 
December 2019 (unless Lloyds has had an opportunity to investigate them).
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Gs concerns and thought that in relation to the 
charges that Lloyds had correctly applied charges to Ms Gs overdraft in-line with the 
account terms and conditions. And thought that the options Lloyds offered Ms G when she 
contacted it about her financial situation were fair.
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not going to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that part of Ms Gs complaint is about the proportionality of the charges applied to 
her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered 
whether the various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms G if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Gs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms G was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Ms G fairly and 
reasonably. And overall I dont think that Lloyds did treat Ms G unfairly or unreasonably. I 
say this because having looked at Ms Gs statements for the period November 2018 
onwards although I can see that Ms G was using her overdraft, on a monthly basis she was 
able to reduce it significantly and sometimes pay it off. And although there were times where 
direct debit payments were returned, most the time Ms Gs overdraft was being managed.
When Ms G did make Lloyds aware of her financial hardship in January 2019 I can see from 
notes recorded at that time that it went through her income and expenditure and it was found 
that she was up to date with her priority bills but she was finding it difficult to keep up with 
the overdraft charges. Ms G wanted time to think about the next steps, so to assist Lloyds 
put a hold on her account freezing charges for 30 days.
Following this Ms G didnt contact Lloyds again until October 2019. Ive listened to the 
recording of the phone call between Lloyds and Ms G and again, she was up to date with all 
her priority bills and didnt want to go through her income and expenditure again. Lloyds 
offered Ms G an age out  meaning that it would start the process to close the account and 
all fees and interest would be frozen and a default registered on the credit file. But Ms G 
made it clear she didnt want to do this or enter any other payment plan because it could 
impact her credit file. She wanted Lloyds to apply another temporary hold on her account to 
freeze charges to assist her before starting a new job. 
Lloyds agreed to give a final temporary hold on the account but explained that if the financial 
difficulties continued, she would need to call them before the 30 day hold was up to set up a 
payment arrangement. Ms G said at the end of the 30 days shed be within her overdraft limit 
and Lloyds confirmed if this was the case then a payment arrangement wouldnt need to be 
set up. As a gesture of goodwill Lloyds offered a £30 payment to Ms G to settle her 
complaint but Ms G wasnt satisfied with this.
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of what Ms G requested 
and how her account was being used. 
 
Fortunately, Ms Gs position did improve because I can see that she paid off her overdraft a 
few months later in April 2020. So overall I dont think that Lloyds treated Ms G unfairly or 
unreasonably when she contacted it about her financial hardship. I say this because It gave 
her different options which allowed time for her situation to improve without negatively 
affecting her credit file or closing her account and this means that Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms G. But I hope she understands the 
reasons for my decision.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman