DRN-3650894
The complaint
Mr S has complained, in summary, that JD Williams & Company Limited, trading as Jacamo, 
(Jacamo), lent to him irresponsibly. He said the lending was unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Jacamo opened a credit account for Mr S in April 2016 with a credit limit of £125. This type 
of credit was an open-ended or running account which Mr S used to pay for goods bought 
from Jacamos catalogue. Jacamo then increased Mr Ss credit limit as follows:-
Date Credit limit
Account opening 19/4/2016 £125
First increase 21/6/2016 £225
Second increase 16/8/2016 £400
Third increase 13/9/2016 £600
Fourth increase 8/11/2016 £900
Fifth increase 28/2/2017 £1,000
Sixth increase 28/3/2017 £1,250
Seventh increase 23/5/2017 £1,500
I understand the account was defaulted in April 2018.
Mr S says that Jacamo should never have increased his credit limit on many separate 
occasions. If Jacamo had checked properly, it would have seen missed payments on his 
account that should have told the lender he was struggling to pay back what was owed. As 
the credit limit increased, he couldn't keep up with the payments culminating in a default 
being placed on his account. 
In its final response letter, Jacamo said that it had assessed all credit limit increases 
using several sources of information, including information provided by a credit reference 
agency. It was happy Mr S was managing his account well, and on all occasions his internal 
and external data was positive. But with regard to the credit limit increase in May 2017, it 
said that after reviewing Mr Ss account history, it was clear this increase wasnt in his best 
interests. So, it was happy to refund interest and administration charges from this date. 
Our investigators view
The investigator noted that Jacamo had upheld Mr Ss complaint from the credit limit 
increase in May 2017 and said he wouldnt be investigating this increase in his assessment 
of the complaint. He thought Jacamo should have taken steps to build a more detailed 
picture of Mr Ss financial situation from the credit limit increase in November 2016. But he 
hadnt seen anything in the information provided which suggested the lender wouldve 
known that Mr S wouldnt have been able to sustainably meet the account repayments. So, 
he concluded that he wouldnt be asking Jacamo to do anything more.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S
and to Jacamo on 29 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id said that I wasnt investigating the credit limit increase in May 2017 as Jacamo had 
already said that the increase wasnt in Mr Ss best interests and it agreed to refund interest 
and charges from the date of the increase.
Id noted that wed set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - 
on our website and Id taken that into account when considering Mr Ss complaint. 
Jacamo told this Service that its assessment into Mr Ss complaint had been done in line 
with the rules and regulations, primarily set out within CONC at the time. Id set out some of 
the guidance from CONC which was in place at the time of the opening of the account and 
the credit limit increases. But I didnt think Jacamos assessment was in line with some of 
that guidance.
CONC 5.3.1G said that: 
(2) The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments under a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
(6)) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (the Office of Fair Tradings 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) 4.3). 
CONC 5.3.1G also said that:
(9) For a regulated credit agreement for running-account credit the firm should set the credit 
limit based on the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) and taking into account the matters in CONC 5.2.3 G, and, in particular, the 
information it has on the customer's current disposable income taking into account any 
reasonably foreseeable future changes. 
[Note: paragraph 4.6 (box) of ILG] 
Paragraph 4.6 (box) of ILG said: 
We consider that the credit limit should have been set by the creditor (presumably aware of 
the borrower's current disposable income and any reasonably foreseeable future changes in 
the level of his disposable income  for example, if the borrower is close to retirement age 
and facing a significant fall in disposable income) on the basis of having undertaken an 
appropriate affordability assessment. 
Id kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Jacamo did what it needed to before 
agreeing to open an account for Mr S, and before making the subsequent increases to his 
credit limit. Id considered the following questions: - did Jacamo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss credit 
application and subsequent credit limit increases to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
repay the credit in a sustainable way?
 - if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 Did Jacamo complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
Mr S asked this Service to look at the whole account and in particular the credit limit
increases as he felt these were what led him into a future spiral of getting in more debt.
In order for Jacamo to reasonably assess whether Mr Jacamo could manage to meet 
repayments on his credit account out of his normal income while meeting his usual 
commitments and without having to borrow further, I thought the lender needed to 
understand Mr Ss monthly income and expenditure levels. 
As Id not seen any information about Mr Ss income and living costs in Jacamos business 
file, Id asked the investigator to ask Jacamo for the steps it took to estimate Mr Ss 
disposable income at the time of the application and to provide the income and expenditure 
information obtained from Mr S (if any) at the time of the credit limit increases in 2016 and 
2017.
Id noted that Jacamo told this Service in response:-
We assess all credit applications and credit limit increases using several sources of 
information, which includes information provided by [a] Credit Reference Agency. Details 
regarding employment status are not requested as this is not a barrier to gaining credit.
As you are aware Jacamo does not request a customer I&E [income and expenditure] to 
complete the application process or apply any credit limit increases.
Jacamo had provided us with information about its credit file checks when Mr S applied for 
his account and some basic information from its regular credit file checks after that. The 
credit checks carried out by Jacamo appeared to provide it with no concerns.  
Id also considered Mr Ss repayment history from the account data supplied by Jacamo. I 
could see that he was just making minimum repayments to his account for the first five 
months and he then made no payment in October 2016. Notwithstanding this, Jacamo 
increased the credit limit two months after account opening to almost double the original 
credit limit. The second credit limit increase less than two months later was more than three 
times the original credit limit. And even though Mr S had made just the minimum payment 
four months running, his credit limit was increased to £600 in September 2016 which was 
almost five times his original credit limit. The following month Mr S didnt make his minimum 
payment. Nevertheless, the following month Jacamo increased his credit limit to £900 and 
Mr Ss balance more than doubled the following month. In early January 2017, Mr S paid 
less than the minimum payment and at the end of January 2017 hed again missed his 
monthly payment. Notwithstanding this, Jacamo again increased his credit limit the following 
month to £1,000 and again the month after to £1,250. 
I thought Mr Ss failure to make his full minimum payment on three occasions between         
October 2016 and January 2017 suggested that he wasnt managing his account well. In 
addition, from account opening until December 2016 hed made just the minimum payment 
in six out of seven months. In the other month hed paid £1.74 more than the minimum 
payment. Mr Ss account balance was mostly rising month by month and at no time had       
he been successful in repaying all that he owed. I thought that all this should have been of 
increasing concern to Jacamo.Id noted that Jacamo had told this Service that there had been times when Mr S had made 
the minimum payment on the account. But that customers making only the minimum 
payment required on the account, by itself, could not be considered a sign of financial 
difficulties as stated within CONC 6.7.3B (3). However, CONC 6.7.3B (3) didnt come into 
force until May 2021 and so wouldnt have applied at the time of the credit limit increases.
As Id said above, CONC specifically referred to a lender taking into account the information 
it had on a customers disposable income when setting the credit limit. We hadnt received 
any information from Jacamo about Mr Ss income and living costs at account opening or at 
the time of the credit limit increases. In order to assess whether Mr S could meet his 
repayments sustainably I thought it needed to understand that he had sufficient disposable 
income to do so. 
And I thought that by November 2016, Jacamo ought to have carried out proportionate 
checks that included verifying Mr Ss monthly income and living costs. By then, Mr S had 
only made minimum repayments for the first five months, missed a repayment in         
October 2016, his account balance was building up and overall, he wasnt making inroads 
into the increasing amount he owed Jacamo.
However, concluding that Jacamo ought to have done more before lending to Mr S didnt 
automatically mean his complaint should succeed. I also needed to be persuaded that what I 
considered to be proportionate checks would have shown Jacamo that Mr S couldn't 
sustainably afford the credit. So, Id looked at Mr Ss bank statements, his credit report and 
considered what hed said about his costs at the time to see what better checks would have 
shown the lender. I wasnt suggesting Jacamo ought to have done this, but these gave me 
some understanding of Mr Ss living costs and how he was managing his money.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Account opening
As Id said above, I would have expected Jacamo to obtain information about Mr Ss 
disposable income before lending and I couldnt see that it did that. 
Mr S had provided some bank statements from around the time hed applied for the account 
which Id reviewed to see what better checks would have suggested about Mr Ss income 
and expenses. Although Mr S told us in his complaint form that he was earning £1,350 and 
spending £1,200 on regular expenses in 2016, I could see in April 2016 that Mr Ss income 
was around £1,625 and his spending on living costs appeared to be around £1,130. 
Overall, I wasnt persuaded that better checks would reasonably have led Jacamo to 
conclude that it shouldnt have lent to Mr S. I didnt think the bank statements showed any 
obvious evidence that Mr S was facing problems managing his finances and that the credit 
limit of £125 would be unsustainable for him. And I didnt think his finances would have 
appeared under so much pressure that Jacamo should have declined his application.
Credit limit increases 
Id reviewed Mr Ss bank statements for the period April 2016 to March 2017 to understand 
what his income, living costs and credit commitments were around that time. Id also 
reviewed Mr Ss credit report but couldnt see any credit accounts (other than Jacamos 
account and a phone account) on that report from April 2016 to March 2017.From April 2016 to mid-September 2016, I didnt think the bank statements showed any 
obvious evidence that Mr S was struggling to manage his finances and that the credit limit 
increases up to £600 would be unsustainable for him.
But from late September 2016, I thought it was more likely than not that Jacamo would have 
learned or reasonably ought to have suspected through proportionate checks that Mr S was 
having problems managing his money to the extent that it was unlikely hed be able to repay 
further credit sustainably. From late September 2016 to March 2017, I could see that Mr S 
was spending beyond his means. There were returned payments most months including 
returned payments to Jacamo, utility and insurance companies. I could see that the 
payments to Jacamo on 28 September 2016 and 26 October 2016 were returned. As Mr Ss 
account didnt appear to have an overdraft facility, he was often left with very little or no 
money for several days before being paid. I could also see that Mr S was using a short term 
lender around this time. So, I thought that Mr S had lost out because Jacamo increased his 
credit limit from November 2016 onwards.
And Id said that if Jacamo had made better checks, it was likely to have found that Mr Ss 
circumstances at the times of the credit limit increase in November 2016 and subsequent 
credit limit increases suggested that the additional credit wasnt likely to be sustainable. So, I 
wasnt persuaded that Jacamo had acted responsibly at these times and subject to any 
further representations by Mr S or Jacamo, Id said that I intended to uphold this complaint in 
part and that Jacamo should put things right as follows:
Putting things right  what Jacamo needs to do
I didnt think that Jacamo had acted responsibly when it increased the credit limit on Mr Ss 
account beyond £600 from 8 November 2016. In order to put Mr S back into the position he 
would have been in had this not happened meant he shouldnt have to pay any interest or 
charges on amounts he borrowed above £600. So Jacamo should:
  - Rework Mr Ss account to ensure that from 8 November 2016 onwards interest and 
charges are removed on amounts borrowed above £600 and interest is only charged on the 
first £600 outstanding on the account to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided; and
 - Apply Mr Ss repayments after this date to this adjusted balance;
 - If the effect of this reworking results in there no longer being an outstanding balance to 
pay, then any remaining amounts paid by Mr S should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to him along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date they were 
made until the date of settlement. In this case Jacamo should remove any adverse 
information about the account from Mr Ss credit file;
 - If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made, Jacamo needs to ensure that Mr S is only liable for this adjusted balance. Jacamo 
should look to arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr S for the outstanding amount. In 
this case, once Mr S has cleared the balance, any adverse information should be removed 
from the credit file;
 - If the debt has been sold Jacamo should either repurchase it or liaise with the current debt 
owner to ensure the above steps are taken. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Jacamo to take off tax from this interest. Jacamo must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it had taken off if he asks for one.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say that he agreed with it.
Jacamo responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time. 
Given that Mr S and Jacamo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint in part and require Jacamo to take the steps set out above under the 
heading Putting things right - what Jacamo needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order JD Williams & Company Limited, trading as Jacamo, to take the steps set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what Jacamo needs to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman