DRN-3058625
The complaint
Mr M complains about information provided to him by Link Financial Investments Limited 
trading as Link Asset Services (Link) in relation to a proposed transfer of his stocks and 
shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
Mr M says when he contacted Link it failed to inform him, that it required him to take advice 
in order to transfer his ISA to a PruFunds ISA, until a long way into the customer service call. 
Mr M says, in any event, that information, provided by Link, was incorrect because Mr M 
already held PruFunds so he should have been able to transfer without obtaining advice. 
He said the information provided by Link was contradictory and incorrect and prevented him 
from transferring his ISA.
What happened
Mr M was looking to transfer his Stocks and Shares ISA to a PruFunds ISA. Link was the 
ISA plan manager and Prudential was the provider of PruFunds. Link was responsible for the 
administration of  the ISA applications.
In March 2020 Mr M contacted the customer service department for Link and enquired about 
an ISA transfer. He spoke to a customer service representative and explained he wished to 
transfer his stocks and shares ISA to PruFunds. The representative eventually informed him, 
during that telephone call, that he couldnt transfer his ISA to PruFunds, without first taking 
advice. 
Mr M disagreed with what the representative had said about advice being required and 
pointed out that this wasnt made clear in the information about ISAs on the website. Mr M 
asked the representative to check whether this was correct. The representative checked with 
a colleague on two occasions and confirmed to Mr M that he couldnt transfer the ISA 
without advice in the first instance. The representative also indicated that although advice 
was needed for the first initial transfer, Mr M could top up his ISA after that transfer without 
taking advice. 
Mr M complained to Link shortly after that call and said the information it had provided in the 
telephone call and in the application form, was unclear and misleading. He complained that 
Link was preventing him from transferring his ISA as it was requiring him to pay for advice, 
which in his view, was unnecessary. 
Link upheld Mr Ms complaint in respect of the time it had taken to respond to him. It 
apologised for the delay in responding to Mr Ms complaint and the handling of the telephone 
call by its representative. 
Link acknowledged its customer service representative should have made Mr M aware that 
financial advice was a requirement, sooner in the call. It said it had provided feedback to the 
representative involved.
However, Link said Mr M was provided with the correct information at the end of the call. So, 
it considered that Mr M was correctly informed of its requirements for financial advice.
Link said financial advice was required to invest in PruFunds as they were invested in stocks 
and shares and deemed to be complex by the provider. 
Link didnt agree with Mr M that the application form was misleading and unclear. It said that 
the application form was used for a number of funds within the Prudential ISA range, some 
of which could be entered into without needing financial advice, but all PruFunds required 
financial advice to be provided to investors.
Mr M disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered his complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  He considered 
the telephone call and agreed that it had taken a little time for the representative to inform Mr 
M that he needed to take financial advice in order to transfer his ISA to a PruFunds ISA.      
The investigator concluded that Mr M was given the correct information on the call because 
the provider, Prudential, had made the decision not to allow PruFunds to be opened by new 
customers without financial advice and had engaged the services of Link to administer this. 
The investigator noted that Mr M didnt think that the application form was clear with regards 
to the requirement for financial advice. He examined the application form and concluded that 
it highlighted the need for financial advice. The investigator referred to the declaration and to 
the options contained on page 12 of the form. He also felt that Link had explained that 
financial advice was not needed if Mr M was making further investment into a PruFund within 
which he had already invested. 
The investigator didnt think the information provided by Link had prevented Mr M from 
making an informed choice. The investigator said Mr M could have either sought financial 
advice and invested in the funds if they were suitable, or he could have chosen not to seek 
financial advice and, therefore, not to invest in a PruFunds ISA.   
Overall, he was satisfied Link had acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the 
PruFunds ISA, so he didnt think it had done anything wrong.
In addition, although he considered Links representative couldve informed Mr M of the need 
for financial advice earlier on in the phone call, he felt that the correct information had been 
given on two occasions. The investigator also considered it was reasonable for the 
representative to check with colleagues when challenged by Mr M about the information he 
had provided.  
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked that his two complaints 
against the two businesses involved (Link and Prudential) should be considered together 
and independently scrutinised to ensure that both Prudential and Link were adhering to the 
Prudential ISA Terms and Conditions. 
Mr M referred to the meaning of New Investment which was set out in the definitions and 
interpretation section as follows:  
New Investment means, in relation to the PruFund Funds, any transaction that would require 
advice to be taken or would otherwise trigger a need for LFI to assess the appropriateness 
of the PruFund Funds for any client. These transactions being the first investment in any 
PruFund Fund (emphasis added by Mr M).
Mr M referred to the different PruFund Funds listed in the form.  He said that when any 
reference was made in the terms and conditions, or in the application form, to investing in 
PruFunds without advice, it was always accompanied with the statement that you must be, 
or must have invested in PruFunds previously. 
Mr M pointed out that those documents did not mention that the investment had to be within 
any particular product and referred back to the definition of New Investment and the 
section stating those transactions were the first investment in any PruFund Fund. Mr M 
also highlighted that it was any PruFund Fund. 
Mr M also referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) principle of treating customers 
fairly which highlighted that firms should provide information to customers in a clear and concise manner, including the provision of terms and conditions and the disclosure of all 
relevant charges.
Mr M pointed to the requirement that customers are kept appropriately and regularly 
informed at all times and that communications are clear and can be readily understood.
Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He asked that a more in-
depth and legal understanding of the interpretation of the terms and conditions he had 
referred to, should be provided in that review. 
As no agreement could be reached Mr Ms complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M contacted Link in March 2020 and spoke to a customer representative. Mr M 
complains that the information provided to him by the customer representative was unclear 
and that the representative failed to inform him of the advice requirement until some way into 
the call. Mr M also considers the information provided about the advice requirement was 
incorrect and at odds with the information provided elsewhere - for example in the 
application form and online.  
Link acknowledges the call was poorly handled by its representative with insufficient 
information being sought at the outset, but it points out that the correct information was 
provided to Mr M once its representative had ascertained that he was a new ISA customer. 
Information provided by customer service representative
I have carefully considered the telephone conversation between Mr M and Links 
representative. 
Mr M contacted Link to enquire about transferring his ISA. I think it is fair to say that initially, 
the call wasnt handled particularly well. The representative appears to have assumed that 
Mr M was an existing ISA customer without asking him any questions to determine this. 
However, once the representative had eventually asked that question and established that 
Mr M was a new customer, I think he did then provide clear information to Mr M indicating 
that the PruFunds ISA required advice for the initial investment. And I think the 
representative was then responding directly to Mr Ms enquiry which had been about 
PruFunds, as Mr M had mentioned two different PruFund Funds during the call.  
The representative also explained that Mr M could top up his investment after the initial 
investment without advice. 
During the call Mr M questioned the information the representative provided as he didnt feel 
that this was outlined anywhere in the information about the ISA available online. The 
representative then checked with his colleagues on two occasions to clarify this was the 
case. I dont consider that was an unreasonable course of action in the circumstances. As 
the representative was seeking to reassure Mr M, that the information he was providing was 
correct.     
I agree that there would have been some inconvenience for Mr M in having spent around 
eight minutes on the phone before the correct questions were asked of him. But I take into 
account that the representative apologised for this at the time, on more than one occasion. 
And I note Link also apologised for the handling of the call in its final response letter to Mr M. 
So, while I think it is regrettable that the call wasnt handled as well as it could have been, I 
dont consider the resulting inconvenience was over and above what people experience 
every day in dealing with financial matters. And as Link and its representative have both 
apologised at an early stage, I wont be asking it to do anything further to address this.    Information contained on ISA application form
Mr M says the information on the ISA application form contradicts what Link has said about 
the requirement for advice because it gives a non-advised option.
The application form has a section on page 12 which is entitled How you want to pay your 
adviser. It gives three options. 
The first is for a new investor making a New Investment and states the application will only 
be accepted if the investor has received advice from a professional adviser. The second 
option is an existing investor making a New Investment into a PruFund(s) in which I am not 
already invested. Again, that option requires financial advice. 
The third option is for an existing investor making further investment into a PruFund(s) in 
which I am already invested and this is the option that does not require financial advice in 
respect of investment in PruFunds. 
I think the use of the words further and in which I am already invested makes it clear that 
the investment has to be into a PruFund in which you are already invested, to remove the 
need for financial advice.  
So, I dont think that information is contradictory.  And for the reasons, which I will outline 
later in this decision, I think that section is, in effect, describing an individual who is already 
invested in an ISA PruFund Fund and wishes to transfer another ISA into their existing ISA 
PruFund Fund, or top up that fund. 
I also note that on page six of the ISA application form there is reference to ten funds (all 
with the prefix LF) where advice is not required. These are the ISA wrapped Open Ended 
Investment Company (OEIC) Funds which are depicted as A Share Class.  But, in any 
event, those arent the funds that  Mr M enquired about. In the phone call to Link Mr M 
mentioned two PruFund Funds. So, I dont think the inclusion of this section in the 
application form contradicts what Link has said about the requirement for advice. 
So, I am satisfied on balance that Mr M enquired about PruFunds which are the first seven 
funds listed in the same section of the application form and which all require an investor to 
take advice to make an initial investment.  
Links application of the ISA terms and conditions
Mr M says Link has prevented him from transferring his ISA by requiring him to take financial 
advice which he says is unnecessary and expensive. He says the terms and conditions dont 
require him to obtain advice to transfer to PruFund Funds as he had already invested in a 
Prufund Fund by way of a pension product. 
Link says Prudential deemed PruFunds to be a complex range of products because they 
have a small life insurance policy attached to them. So, Prudential, the provider, determined 
that an investor must seek financial advice to invest in one of these products. 
Link said once the investor has made the initial investment, with advice, they are then 
permitted to top-up, make a lump sum payment, transfer in, or set up a regular saver amount 
to the same Fund without needing further advice. But, if an existing PruFund investor wishes 
to invest into a different PruFund Fund, then they would need to seek financial advice for the 
initial investment into this new PruFund Fund.
I think the first thing to note is that the terms and conditions Mr M refers to are those that 
apply to a Prudential ISA. So, it follows that those terms apply to the ISA and not to other 
products. 
Mr M has referred to the definition of New Investment and pointed out the transactions are 
defined as being the first investment in any PruFund Fund. He emphasises the word any.
I consider the first investment in any PruFund Fund means you havent already invested in 
that PruFund Fund. So, I dont think already being invested in one PruFund Fund means you could transfer and invest in any of the other PruFund Funds without advice, not least 
because those funds will pose different levels of risk.
I think this is made even clearer in the second part of term 3.3 of the terms and conditions. 
The first part of term 3.3 says:
When you make a New Investment into any PruFund Funds you must receive advice from a 
professional adviser. Subsequent investments into PruFund Funds in which you have 
already invested do not need to be advised, however may still be subject to an adviser 
charge. 
The second part then goes on to say:   
When you are an existing investor and wish to make a New Investment into a Fund(s) in 
which you are not already invested, you must receive advice from a professional adviser, 
who may make an adviser charge.   
In addition, term 6.3 states we do not provide you with advice or discretionary management. 
You must contact your professional adviser if you wish to make a New or Initial Investment 
into the ISA. 
So, as I have said, I dont think being invested in one PruFund Fund enables you to invest in 
another different PruFund Fund without advice. 
The next question is whether being invested in a PruFund Fund in a pension product 
enables you to invest in the PruFund Fund with broadly the same name, held within an ISA. 
I think it is important to note that these are two different products with different features and 
different terms and conditions. So, for example, advice you received to invest in a particular 
pension product with a particular fund, would not necessarily apply to an investment into an 
ISA because different considerations are likely to apply. For instance, a pension is generally 
a long-term product designed to provide retirement income. 
In term 3.4 it talks about PruFunds and the reason why there needs to be a determination of 
a clients demands and needs.  I note the demands and needs for a pension product might 
be significantly different to those required from an investment product, such as an ISA.  
In addition, a customer may well be advised against investing a number of products in the 
same fund because that could mean a real lack of diversification in their portfolio of 
investments, with perhaps, a significant proportion of their portfolio being invested in one 
fund.  If that one fund then performs poorly, it would have a disproportionate impact on their 
whole portfolio.    
I note Mr M has said the terms and conditions dont specify that the PruFund Fund has to be 
invested in the same product. However, I can see Investment and Account are also 
defined in the ISA terms and conditions as follows: 
Investment means Shares held in the OEIC or Units held in the PruFund Fund, as 
appropriate,  held within your account 
And Account is defined as  the investor account which we open for each ISA investor. 
So, when we are talking about the first investment I think it is reasonable to conclude, on 
balance, that it means the first investment into units held in a PruFund Fund within an ISA 
account.
Overall, I dont agree with Mr M that the terms and conditions allow him to invest in a 
PruFund ISA without advice because he had an existing investment in a PruFund Fund via 
his pension product. I consider in order to invest without obtaining advice, the investment 
had to be in the same PruFund Fund, and that PruFund Fund, in addition, had to be within 
the same product.I dont consider Link, as the administrator of the ISA application and ISA Manager, has acted 
unfairly in applying the providers requirements for financial advice to be obtained. I also 
dont consider Link acted outside the terms and conditions. Whilst I appreciate Mr M may 
have felt this requirement was unnecessary and expensive, if he didnt want to comply with 
it, he was free to transfer his ISA to another provider. So, I dont think Mr M was prevented 
from transferring his ISA.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Link Financial Investments Limited trading as Link 
Asset Services for the reasons I have outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman