DRN-3579588
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc unfairly reported late payments to the 
credit reference agencies in relation to their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B repaid their mortgage with Bank of Scotland. Theyve since found out it had 
recorded late payments on their credit files. They say this will stop them getting a new 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B said they made a payment (using the online banking app for their current 
account) on the last day of each month, as they were paid on the 28th of each month. They 
thought the transfer was immediate. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland told them it wouldnt 
record a late payment so long as the payment was made in the month it was due. 
Bank of Scotland said some of the payments arrived after the end of the month. It said it 
would consider removing the late payments if Mr and Mrs M could show they made the 
payments in time, and the delay was due to a bank or technical error. Mr and Mrs B were 
unable to provide evidence that satisfied Bank of Scotland. 
Our investigator said Bank of Scotland hadnt made an error when it recorded the late 
payments. While it gave them confusing information when they asked about removing the 
adverse data, its offer of £300 for the inconvenience was fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said Bank of Scotland agreed they could make a payment 
at the end of each month. They didnt feel it was their fault if the banking system meant 
payments arrived late  which they think is due to weekends and bank holidays delaying 
transfers. The pointed out that even when late, payments were made within a few days of 
the due date. Mr and Mrs B said the outcome is disproportionate given the effect the adverse 
data is having on them. They say they had funds available and arent responsible for the 
technical difficulties which meant payments arrived late.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Originally, Mr and Mrs Bs payments were due on the 8th of the month. However, Mr and 
Mrs B were paid on the 28th of the month and they wanted to make their mortgage payments 
after this. Bank of Scotland said 28th is the latest day of the month it can set up a direct debit 
(this is because February has 28 days). Mr and Mrs B cancelled their direct debit payment in 
case it was requested before their salaries were paid into the account. They decided to 
make a manual payment each month.
Mr and Mrs B say they made a manual payment on the last day of each month. They say 
they assumed the money was transferred immediately and didnt know that late payments 
had been recorded until after theyd repaid the mortgage.
Bank of Scotland recorded late payments with the credit reference agencies between mid-
2015 and late 2019. After Mr and Mrs B provided their bank statements it agreed to remove 
three of these. This was because Mr and Mrs Bs bank statements showed these payments 
left their bank account before the end of the month. As the bank statements showed the 
other payments left Mr and Mrs Bs current account after the end of the month it didnt agree 
to remove the late payment markers. 
I appreciate this could cause problems for Mr and Mrs Bs application for a new mortgage. 
But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Bank of Scotland to remove the late 
payments. Ive explained why below.
Bank of Scotland says it previously suggested alternatives to making payments at the 
end of the month  such as moving the payment date to earlier in the month (taking a 
payment deferral for one month if necessary). 
Mr and Mrs B say they were told as long as they pay by the end of the month, their 
payments wouldnt show as late. Bank of Scotland says this is right. However, payments 
werent always made into the mortgage account by the end of the month. 
Mr and Mrs B havent been able to provide evidence they actioned the payments in time, 
and they arrived late due to a technical problem or a bank error. 
Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr and Mrs B when payments were late. It provided a copy of 
a letter it sent to them in July 2019 saying payments had been missed or received late. 
Bank of Scotlands records show it sent 11 similar letters during 2019. So I think Mr and 
Mrs B were reasonably aware there could be a problem with the way they were making 
payments. These letters also said their credit files could be impacted.
Bank of Scotland has to record accurate and up to date information with the credit 
reference agencies. Mr and Mrs B agreed to this when they took out the mortgage. The 
payments were late, and theres no evidence this was due to an error by Bank of 
Scotland. I dont think it was incorrect or unfair to record the late payments.
Bank of Scotland fairly considered Mr and Mrs Bs request to remove the adverse data. I 
think it was fair for it to ask Mr and Mrs B for evidence to support what they said  that 
they made the payments on time. Mr and Mrs B werent able to provide this evidence.
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland should exercise its discretion and remove the late 
payments from their credit files. But it doesnt have to do so. I know Mr and Mrs B will be 
disappointed. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Bank of Scotland to remove 
the late payments from their credit files.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman