DRN-2624288
The complaint
Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs G took out a PPI policy when she applied for a mortgage in August 1999. 
Mrs G paid a monthly amount of £20.09 for the policy. It provided a monthly benefit of 
£379.09 if Mrs G was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant. This would have been 
paid for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mrs G that the policy was optional. And it had to get her 
consent before it added PPI to her account. Halifax says it would have done this. But Mrs G 
says it was not made clear that it was optional, and she thought she had to have it. Mrs G 
also says she was pressured into taking the policy. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Gs said, but pressure is a subjective area  what one 
person perceives as pressure may be different to another. Mrs G hasnt provided a detailed 
account of what made her feel pressured and I cant know exactly what would have been 
said during the meeting. So, without more information from Mrs G, I cant say she was 
pressured into taking the policy.
Halifax has provided a copy of Mrs Gs mortgage application for me to consider. Looking at 
the form, there is a section about Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance  PPI, 
with a brief explanation of what it is and a statement to say yes to PPI. I think the wording of 
this makes it clear the policy was optional and Mrs G has signed in the box, indicating she 
wanted PPI added to her account. Following this, Mrs G also completed a separate 
application for the PPI, which she has also signed. So, I think Mrs G was aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time. 
Mrs G says she was given advice and Halifax agrees. That means as well as giving Mrs G 
enough information about the policy, Halifax also had to check it was suitable for her. And 
based on what Ive seen, I think it was. I say this because, Mrs G was eligible for the policy 
and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the terms which might have made it 
harder for her to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical condition or 
unusual employment circumstances. 
Mrs G says she was entitled to employee benefits if she was too ill to work or lost her job, 
but she was unable to confirm how much. She also says her father could have helped her to 
make her repayments. Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said, but I dont think this 
means that the policy wasnt right for her. The policy would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs Gs employee benefits and potentially for longer. Mrs G could also have made repeat 
claims subject to a requalification period. While her father may have offered to help, 
circumstances could change which means his help could not always be relied on. So, I think 
the policy could have been useful to Mrs G if she fell on hard times.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mrs G at the time it 
was taken, and it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mrs G.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs G all of the other information she needed. But for the 
same reasons as Ive explained above, I dont think better information would have put her off 
of taking the policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mrs Gs home. And the 
repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I think the 
policy could have been useful to Mrs G and I dont think she lost out because of anything 
Halifax did wrong. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman