DRN-3887741
The complaint
Mrs R complains Ludlow Wealth Management Group Ltd (Ludlow) gave her unsuitable 
advice in 2005 and 2006 to set up and give money to a trust with a view to the trust investing 
£136,000 in an investment bond. The trust and bond investment started in 2006.
Mrs R has said she made it clear the money invested was to benefit descendants and in 
2019 she was shocked to find the bond had halved in value. She has said she didnt need 
the income she was drawing from the trust and Ludlow shouldve advised her to reinvest it.
Background
I sent my provisional decision to the parties on 29 November 2022. For reference, Ive set 
out most of what it said below and summarised some parts.
Provisional decision
Background
The advice to set up the trust and to invest in a bond within the trust with a view to reducing 
the inheritance tax liability of Mrs Rs estate and so increase what would be passed to 
Mrs Rs descendants, was advice given by Ludlow to Mrs R in her personal capacity. This 
includes advice that she retain entitlement to a fixed income of £566.66 per month from the 
bond within the trust (5% of the sum invested) during her lifetime.
The advice resulted in Mrs R gifting £136,000 to a trust of which she would be a trustee and 
that invested in an investment bond. Mrs R was entitled to the income outlined above. 
Beneficial ownership of the capital otherwise rested with beneficiaries excluding Mrs R. 
Legal ownership of the trusts assets rested with the trustees including Mrs R.
Investment decisions within the trust were made by the trustees  so when the bond funds 
were invested as they were, this was a decision of the trustees with Mrs R acting upon 
Ludlows advice in her capacity as a trustee. Losses suffered as a result of the investments 
made within the bond are losses of the trust and redress if due for that would be due to the 
trust. But advice Ludlow gave or failed to give Mrs R about the reinvestment of her income 
from the trust was personal advice for Mrs R.
Mrs R has said the bond was funded from an existing trust set up in 2000. But from the 
December 2005 notes of the meeting that led to the bond being set up, it is apparent that the 
bond funds came from cashing in a number of other investments  mostly with-profits bonds 
- and theres no mention of any of these having been part of any trust. 
From what Ive seen, it appears the funds used to fund the bond mostly came from existing 
with-profits bonds.
Our investigator didnt find fault with Ludlows advice to set up the trust with the bond 
investment, or with the income paid to Mrs R by the trust, or with Ludlow not having advised 
Mrs R to reinvest that income. Our investigator thought the bond wasnt invested correctly 
but that is something Ill consider when looking at the complaint of the trust.
Provisional findings
Mrs R wished to pass funds to descendants. The value of her estate exceeded the nil rate 
band for inheritance tax at the time. So mitigating inheritance tax was a relevant concern. In 
essence all her investments would be liable to inheritance tax, due to the value of her home. 
Ludlow assessed the potential tax bill at 40% to be in the region of £150,000. Ludlows trust 
advice was designed to save around £50,000 of this.
The effect of the trust arrangements Ludlow recommended was that growth on the invested 
funds would not grow the value of Mrs Rs estate for inheritance tax purposes. So her tax bill 
would not increase. The invested funds would then be free of inheritance tax after seven 
years, and potentially eligible to be taxed at a reduced tax rate after three years.
There was also a possible immediate inheritance tax saving, which wouldve been useful if 
Mrs R survived for less than seven years, as the value of her right to trust income could be 
excluded from her estate. How much this mightve been worth wasnt set out at the start and 
Ludlow decided against seeking an estimate from the relevant authority. In any event Mrs R 
did survive more than seven years.
Direct gifts to descendants wouldnt have produced the immediate inheritance tax saving the 
trust could but like the trust wouldve put the funds outside Mrs Rs estate after seven years 
with savings starting after three years. The trust enabled Mrs R to obtain these tax benefits 
while deferring until after Mrs Rs death the gifts that gave rise to those benefits. It also 
allowed Mrs R to obtain an income from the capital in the meantime.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Rs suggestion that the trust arrangements were unsuitable 
on account of her not needing the income. I dont think the evidence I have supports Mrs Rs 
recollections about not needing the income.
For example, a note of the first December 2005 meeting says Mrs R used her income for her 
lifestyle and was taking income from some of the with-profits bonds that were used to fund 
the trust. The note said this income was reducing the value of the bonds so it was 
effectively coming off her capital as she can see that the capital value is consistently 
reducing. So Mrs R was using income from the money that was to be put into the trust, and 
at a higher rate than the growth being achieved on that money. So if she gave up that 
income without replacing it in some way, she would have an income shortfall of some kind.
The note did say that Mrs R had large outgoings related to a large property that she intended 
to sell for something smaller. This hadnt yet happened at that time, but it isnt obvious that 
cost savings from this wouldve been likely to reduce Mrs Rs costs enough to remove her 
need for the income shed been receiving from the invested funds entirely. Also Mrs R was 
receiving income from employment at that time, which would end at some point. Also the 
meeting note says Mrs R was receptive to the proposed trust due to the fact she could 
again retain 5% tax deferred income from the bond
A note for a second December 2005 meeting says the £136,000 would produce an income 
of £566.66 at 5% and that this was of course an increase in her income about which she is 
pleased. It said Mrs R was aware she couldnt access the invested capital which was why it 
wasnt advising her to invest more. All this again supports the idea that the income was an 
attraction for Mrs R at that time.
The January 2006 advice letter Mrs R was given said that to cater for planned holidays: 
you would like if possible to increase the income from your investments as this is important to you. It said inheritance tax options like direct gifts had been discussed but an 
attraction for her of the trust was that it would continue to provide you with an income from 
your savings and investments whilst providing some considerable savings in respect of 
future inheritance tax.
I understand Mrs R was given copies of the meeting notes as well as the letter. I conclude 
from all this that Mrs R did want income from the invested capital. So it was reasonable for 
Ludlow to recommend she place it in a trust in which she would retain access to an income 
while allowing the capital to be passed to others in due course. Overall the advice to set up 
these arrangements for inheritance tax purposes wasnt unsuitable in my view.
Changes to inheritance tax in 2007, allowing retrospective use of a deceased spouses nil 
rate band in certain circumstances, if applicable to Mrs R would have reduced her potential 
inheritance tax liability to around £40,000 before the effects of the trust and any asset growth 
is taken into account. The change wasnt known of at the time of the 2006 advice, so it isnt 
relevant when considering the merits of that advice, but its effects together with those of the 
trust could potentially have reduced Mrs Rs potential inheritance tax bill to zero. If Mrs R did 
not have a potential inheritance liability in later years, there wouldnt have been a need to 
advise her to invest more of her funds in arrangements like the trust that could help pass 
funds on to descendants free of inheritance tax. In 2017 more inheritance tax reliefs started.
Ludlows notes suggest it concluded that the 2007 tax changes or later increases to reliefs 
meant Mrs R no longer had an inheritance tax liability to mitigate, after allowing for the tax 
mitigation already provided by the trust. That being so, if the bond reduced by virtue of 
income being withdrawn and Mrs R did not need the income and kept it, she would be no 
worse off from an inheritance tax point of view than if she hadnt drawn the income. Mrs R 
could gift to descendants accumulated spare income without using a vehicle like the trust.
With this in mind then, even if Ludlow hadnt informed Mrs R of the decline in the bonds 
value within the trust, and had denied her the chance to make up for this earlier by investing 
or earmarking surplus income for the benefit of dependents, Im not persuaded this would 
mean she lost out. Because she could still gift that surplus income later if she wished. If she 
used those funds for other purposes instead, then they werent surplus on the face of it. Also 
she wouldve known that funds paid to her that she kept in a bank account werent invested 
in something else and the extent to which she wanted to keep cash rather than invest in 
something else was something she could judge given her situation, plans and cash needs.
That said, Mrs R did put more aside later for dependants, as shown in financial reviews 
Ludlow carried out. Those reviews also suggest Ludlow did take account of Mrs Rs overall 
position, including her income, when it conducted its reviews from time to time.
For example, in May 2008 Mrs R agreed to reduce by half the £5,000 income she was taking 
from another investment, in order to preserve the values of investments like the bond in the 
trust. This income reduction was far less than the income from the trust, so it suggests Mrs R 
still wanted at least some of that income. She could have reduced her income further if she 
had been willing to accept less income. 
Also, referring to a high yield corporate bond fund that had fallen in value, the meeting note 
said: we remain content with this as it generates a little bit of additional income for 
[Mrs R]. This again doesnt suggest Mrs Rs income was excessive for her needs  rather it 
tends to support the idea that around the time of the advice Mrs R wanted and valued the 
income she was receiving from the trust.
In May 2009 it was recorded that Mrs R is living comfortably on her income and she does 
have surplus income she has been able to save a proportion of her income into her [bank] account. She would like to keep some money on immediate access as she has not 
ruled out the possibility of moving to [place], in which case she would require some extra 
funds. It said she had £38,000 on deposit of which £10,000 was wanted for short term 
requirements or emergencies.
So there are signs Mrs Rs income position in around 2009 gave her more leeway to save or 
reinvest funds. But theres nothing that to my mind suggests Ludlow was negligent with 
regard to how it took her income and surplus cash position into account. For example a note 
in 2011 said Mrs Rs cash was £44,200 and approximately 13% of overall portfolio and she 
is comfortable with this.
Ludlows January 2013 note says Mrs Rs income was £34,000. Of this £11,000 was from 
investments including the trust and £23,000 was from pensions. It was noted that Mrs Rs 
outgoings at her current property are relatively low She has therefore found that her 
income stream she is receiving has been more than sufficient for needs and requirements. 
Also, referring to an investment income of around £1900 that was ending, the note said: 
on the basis that she feels she had not actually been spending all of her income then she 
would be willing to cease for certainly a short period the income that she was receiving.
Mrs Rs cash was recorded as £77,000 at that point. A brief summary in May 2013 put her 
cash as £72,000 at that point. So a significant surplus cash had built up at that point.
I note in passing that at this point Ludlow told Mrs R it was likely the bond value would 
decline due to the likelihood of it not achieving the return needed to sustain its 5% income. It 
was noted that a return in excess of 5% would be needed to sustain the value. It appears 
Mrs R was in a position at this point - with this knowledge and surplus funds  to use some 
of those surplus funds to make up for reductions that might occur in the value of what was 
available to pass on to descendants from the bond within the trust. As it happens, she did in 
fact do this by giving funds away in 2014.
According to Ludlows January 2014 note, Mrs R explained she has circa £1000 surplus 
income each month which builds up on her deposits. It said she looked to spend this on 
travelling. But she wanted to cease the income from [a different companys] Bond to allow 
this to gain some recovery in value. This was done. So Mrs Rs excess income situation 
was noted and considered and acted upon at that time. Also at the end of 2014 it was noted 
that Mrs Rs cash was down to £52,000 and she had given £30,000 away to descendants. 
So it appears Mrs R with Ludlow was monitoring her cash situation and on occasion making 
extra provision for descendants from surplus income.
A review carried out at the end of 2015 noted Mrs R had cash of around £48,000 and also 
that Mrs Rs income is sufficient to cater for her needs however it is very close and does 
not leave her with an awful lot of surplus. It said she did not wish to increase the income 
from her capital but also shed had a particularly expensive year and is possibly looking 
towards drawing down a bit more money in the future. Also it said she was comfortable 
with the amount she has on immediate access. So again it appears Mrs Rs income 
situation and also the amount she had on deposit was considered, and Mrs Rs income at 
that point wasnt at all excessive for her.
I dont have records of the reviews for the next few years. So I dont know exactly what 
Mrs Rs income position was or what advice Ludlow gave her during that period. But Ludlow 
gave a summary of some aspects of these in its final response letter. Ludlow says a review 
at the end of December 2016 included an update on your cash position and confirmed that 
some of the grandchildren were approaching 18 and as such some of the designated 
accounts would soon be required. It says a December 2017 review included an overview of 
income position and cash, following which changes were recommended. I dont know what changes. But the final response letter says that around £10,000 in cash had accrued since 
the 2016 meeting. It also says that arrangements were made at meetings in February and 
May 2019 for Mrs R to pay her income from the trust into an ISA.
Ive no reason to suppose that Ludlows summary of these notes in its final response letter 
was inaccurate. Also what that summary says indicates a continuation of what happened in 
past reviews I do have, where Mrs Rs income and cash situation was considered and 
changes made in light of her needs and wishes as she expressed them from time to time.
Also, as I said above, if Mrs Rs income was in excess of her income needs, the extra she 
saved could be used for descendants and, depending on her circumstances, potentially 
without negative inheritance tax implications. Overall, doing more for her descendants would 
have meant earmarking or putting aside more sums and Mrs R does appear to have done 
this on occasion over the period, but doesnt appear to have had a consistent large excess 
of funds for this that were negligently overlooked by Ludlow. So I dont find grounds in what 
Ive seen to say Ludlows advice was faulty in this regard.
I say this having taken into account all Mrs R has told us about how downsizing reduced her 
costs by half and about how her work income from work continued and paid for her travel 
until 2011. From what Ive seen, Ludlow considered Mrs Rs overall position and this 
captured the variations in her work income, which at times reduced as travel commitments 
reduced her time for it, and changes in her outgoings.
Mrs R has mentioned that she would have been very unhappy if she had known the fees and 
charges associated with the bond, including commission of over £6,000 and an annual fee of 
over £700. But the bond charges and commissions were set out in the illustration Mrs R was 
given at the start. She also signed a declaration that set out Ludlows initial commission and 
the amounts (paid for from the bond charges) that Ludlow might get each year (which would 
vary according to the value of the bond). So I think Mrs R was made aware of the costs 
involved with the bond before she agreed to go ahead with the trust and bond arrangement.
Overall I find Ludlows advice to set up and fund the trust, with its bond investment, and the 
service and advice it gave to Mrs R later in connection with the income arising from the trust, 
to be suitable. So I dont intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about those things. The issue of 
whether the funds in the trust within the bond were suitably invested, is a complaint of the 
trust and Ill consider that separate complaint separately.
Returning to the trust and bond advice given to Mrs R, Id mention that Ludlows notes say 
that before it recommended the trust and the bond, it had previously suggested Mrs R pay 
premiums for life assurance to help cover what inheritance tax would cost her estate. This 
had apparently been rejected by Mrs R after consulting her descendants. So it seems to me 
that Mrs R was prepared to reject Ludlows suggestions if they didnt match her priorities or 
appeared too costly. According to Ludlows notes, the bond went ahead having been 
considered and accepted by Mrs Rs descendants. Mrs Rs solicitors also appear to have 
been involved in some way, as there is reference to a payment being made to them by 
Ludlow in respect of the bond and trust set up.
I mention these things in passing as in my view they support the idea that the bond and trust 
was embarked upon having first been given careful consideration by Mrs R, in conjunction 
with various other parties. In my view this tends to reinforce my conclusion that this course of 
action was a reasonable one and that Ludlow treated Mrs R fairly at the time  and that the 
costs of the arrangements and the potential tax benefits were properly considered also.
Responses to my provisional decisionLudlow did not reply to my provisional decision. Mrs R did reply. She didnt agree with my 
provisional conclusions and she provided further points. Ive considered all Mrs Rs points 
carefully. Her points included, in summary:
The core of her complaint is that the product was mis-sold because preservation of 
capital for descendants was the key driver with the second being to protect capital from 
taxes. Income whilst welcome was not the key purpose.
When the investment was sold, Mrs R clearly stated the purpose was to pass this capital 
to descendants and it was implicit that this would be done in a tax efficient manner. She 
did not ask for an income from this investment, she did not need the money.
Creating a trust with income was Ludlows suggestion, she did not seek this. Ludlow 
seemed to think this was very clever of them. In hindsight, this was not clever at all.
Ludlow sold a trust that could not be altered, so that when Mrs R discovered the problem 
there was no way to rectify it.
Ludlow did not take into account the impact of falling investment yields and the effect this 
would have on the value of the trust.
With this investment the capital was not preserved. Income if retained and not spent 
would return to Mrs Rs estate and be subject to inheritance tax. The returns of 5% could 
not be changed once the trust was established, so capital was eroded when returns 
dropped below this amount.
To suggest she sought or needed income is false. She had plenty of money as 
evidenced by her extensive travel.
She could afford the house she had. The driver for selling it wasnt the expense but the 
effort required in its upkeep.
She was unaware the capital was reducing until 2019, so she did not have the chance to 
save the income for later gifting to descendants. At no point did Ludlow suggest that the 
income be saved if it was to be passed to descendants. This applies to the 2007 tax 
changes and at no subsequent point was this discussed until the extent of the capital 
erosion became apparent in 2019. The 2007 inheritance tax changes are irrelevant as to 
whether the trust was mis-sold. They were subsequent to the sale. 
This bond was never discussed or accepted by Mrs Rs descendants. They knew nothing 
of it until she discovered the capital erosion in 2019. She never discussed life assurance 
with them either. That is false. They were not involved in any of this.
The decision infers that rejecting life insurance means Mrs R would reject other advice. 
When it came to investment advice, Mrs R took all Ludlows suggestions as she was and 
remains an unsophisticated investor.
With reference to all the above, it appears the manner in which Ludlow sold the 
investment has not been made clear and I should reconsider my initial decision.
Mrs R has also provided valuation statements she says show which investments were sold 
to invest in the bond and where £100,000 she derived from an non-investment source was 
invested. She has also provided a further summary of her circumstances. In brief summary:She did not need money when the investment was made. She has always believed in 
living within one`s means. She did travel a great deal (of which she has given quite some 
detail), but she financed this from fees from her work which was ongoing up to 2011. She 
had no problems with paying for any of her travel or trips. 
It has been alleged she needed to sell her house. She put it on the market when her long 
travels and visits to relatives (instead of them coming to her) meant most of it was hardly 
used  and her trips made its upkeep and that of its gardens difficult to keep up with. 
The conversation with Ludlow regarding inheritance tax in fact took place at a meeting in 
2000 when she invested £100,000 from non-investment sources into a trust. Of course, 
in any event she knew about inheritance tax - and that it was seven years before it was 
clear, with a percentage reducing before that. If the original trust had not been cashed as 
part of the 2005 trust, it was only two years away from being safe from her estate.
The bond was discussed when she was advised to sell the 2000 investments, plus 
another smaller one, to take out the bond. At that meeting there was no mention of her 
taking income from the bond. This was sprung on her in January 2006. 
She understands from my provisional decision that the reason for the income was to 
preserve the capital sum so that it would not increase in value re the tax. This was never 
discussed with Ludlow. There is no doubt in her mind that this wouldnt have been 
acceptable to her. She could, and can, see no point in having such a large sum without it 
increasing in value and she didnt know such a thing could be even considered. She 
assumed there would be growth. She thought at the time that Ludlow must have great 
faith in this investment to be able to take such a large sum out each month. She simply 
cannot see why this was good advice when the capital sum began to be eroded less 
than two years later, beginning the downward spiral of less investment leading to lower 
return, and being locked into it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision - and 
for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain my reasons with reference to Mrs Rs recent points.
In my view the main purpose of the arrangements was to allow capital to be preserved for 
dependents by firstly protecting it from inheritance tax, which could otherwise reduce its 
value significantly, and secondly by allowing it to be invested to potentially grow or keep up 
its spending power. I agree that income was welcome but not the key purpose. But I cant 
overlook that the evidence from the records Ive referred to above does support the idea that 
income was a benefit of the arrangement and so not entirely irrelevant to Mrs Rs needs.
The effect of the trust arrangements was that growth on the invested funds would not grow 
the value of Mrs Rs estate for inheritance tax purposes. What I mean by this is that growth 
within the trust would be outside Mrs Rs estate and so not liable to inheritance tax. So 
growth was not a problem from a tax point of view. So, to clarify - from a tax point of view, 
the income wasnt designed to stop the bond growing in the way Mrs R appears to have 
understood from my provisional decision.Instead, the benefit of the income from a tax point of view was that the value of Mrs Rs right 
to trust income (that part of the capital deemed to be providing Mrs Rs trust income) was not 
treated as a gift for inheritance tax purposes, but at the same time it could be excluded from 
the value of Mrs Rs estate. This was due to particular rules in force at that time about the 
valuation of such interests. 
This potentially allowed for an immediate reduction in the inheritance tax liability that might 
arise on Mrs Rs estate. The size of this benefit would depend on how much of the trusts 
capital was deemed to be providing Mrs Rs income. Ludlow decided against seeking an 
estimate of this at the start. But the higher the income, the larger the capital sum that would 
be treated as providing that income, and so the greater that immediate tax benefit. In this 
way, the trust could produce an immediate reduction in the value of Mrs Rs estate in a way 
that an outright gift without income would not have. Id mention that the rules that allowed 
this were changed in later years.
Mrs R has acknowledged that an income was welcome. But even without a need for income, 
taking the income the trust could provide had advantages from an inheritance tax point of 
view. Id add that receiving income back from a gift also necessarily makes the gift more 
affordable and so allows a larger gift, so insofar as that affected the sum invested it will have 
increased the immediate tax benefits Ive described.
Mrs R points out that taking income meant the value of the bond would reduce unless growth 
was achieved to offset this and also meant income returning to Mrs R with the potential to 
build up her estate over time. But the reduction in the bond value was not a financial loss but 
a transfer to Mrs R. Also the potential inheritance liability arising on that could to a greater or 
lesser extent be mitigated by taking other steps in future if needed - for example use of the 
gifts out of income exemption or making extra gifts. In contrast, the immediate tax discount 
provided by the treatment of the trust income couldnt be secured in some other way.
I acknowledge that Ludlow didnt give advice at the time on how to reduce the inheritance 
tax that could arise on the income. But I dont find Ludlow negligent for not addressing that at 
the time  it is something that could be addressed in future if need be. In my view Ludlows 
recommendation improved Mrs Rs inheritance tax position and had potential tax advantages 
compared to other steps she mightve taken. The fact that there may be other things Mrs R 
could also have done on top to improve her future tax situation, doesnt in my view make the 
steps Ludlow did recommend unsuitable.
Id add that later changes to inheritance tax allowances seem to have had the potential to 
reduce or eliminate Mrs Rs potential liability, making taking further steps in this regard less 
of a priority  which could explain why further advice along those lines wasnt given. But I 
note that Mrs R did make further provision for dependents by way of gifts on occasion.
Mrs R says Ludlow didnt advise her to put income to one side. But I refer back to what I said 
in my provisional decision about how even if Ludlow stopped Mrs R from earmarking surplus 
income for the benefit of dependents, I dont think this disadvantaged her given how she 
could still make gifts of surplus income later. Also Ive noted she did make further gifts.
I recognise that the rate of growth needed to fund the income could not be changed and did 
become higher relative to general investment growth rates over time as general growth rates 
reduced. But Ive explained why I dont think the disadvantages of having this income paid 
outweighed the advantages. Id emphasise that my conclusions are not based on the idea that Mrs R couldnt afford her 
travel or lived beyond her means or couldnt afford her house or needed to reduce expenses 
at the time of the sale. Ive explained the extent to which the evidence supports the idea that 
the income from the trust was useful for Mrs R from time to time. Id refer Mrs R back to what 
I said in my provisional decision in connection with these matters. I wasnt saying that she 
couldnt afford her house. But I did discuss how Mrs Rs changing income situation was in 
my view taken into account by Ludlow in its ongoing advice.
Mrs R doesnt appear to dispute rejecting a proposal to take life insurance out for inheritance 
tax purposes. But she says this wasnt discussed with her descendants and that she took all 
Ludlows suggestions when it came to investment advice. What I said about her discussions 
with descendants was taken from notes that I believe Ludlow shared with Mrs R  so I think 
it reasonable as a starting point to proceed on the basis that those notes likely reflect what 
was said at the time, given that if inaccurate claims were made by Ludlow there these would 
be seen by and might raise the concerns of Mrs R. 
That said, it is not necessary to my conclusion for Mrs R to have discussed the advice with 
her descendants, or indeed her solicitors. My view is that the advice was reasonable and not 
unsuitable - so I see nothing untoward in Mrs R following that advice, regardless of whether 
she did so having discussed it first with anyone else.
Finally I turn to what Mrs R says about how the trust was funded from monies that originated 
in 2000 and were already invested  largely in with-profits bonds - in trust arrangements that 
wouldve left the funds free of inheritance tax in two more years anyway. 
Ive thought about this suggestion carefully, but Im still not persuaded that this was the case. 
I say this for a number of reasons. 
First, having considered all the documents provided I find no support in them for the idea 
that the policies funding the trust were already in a trust and sheltered from inheritance tax. It 
is not uncommon for investment bonds to be held in trust arrangements so as to allow funds 
to be paid without the need for probate, but this doesnt mean those trusts will achieve an 
inheritance tax saving. Nothing I have supports that a trust of that kind ended as a result of 
the reinvestment of the with-profits bond monies into the trust. 
For example, theres nothing to make me think that the ownership of the existing bonds or 
any part of their funds had already been gifted to others or that Mrs Rs rights over the funds 
had been given up in some way. On the contrary, the discussion treated the existing bonds 
as being Mrs Rs and she was drawing funds from them as part of her income. So these 
dont appear to have been funds gifted for the benefit of others. There was no discussion of 
the interests of existing beneficiaries and nothing to suggest the interests of any existing 
beneficiaries needed to be considered when discussing the cashing in of those policies. So 
the evidence does not support the idea that these policies were part of a trust that was going 
to provide inheritance tax benefits.
Id add that if Mrs R knew at the time that those funds were already in trust and sheltered 
from inheritance tax, as she suggests now, it wouldnt appear to make any sense for her to 
have agreed to new arrangements  particularly if, as she now suggests, she was aware at 
the time of how inheritance tax and the seven-year rule worked in general. 
So, based on what I have, Im simply not persuaded that this was the situation in 2005. I 
think it more likely that Mrs R is mistaken in what she recalls. I confirm that in reaching this 
view I have looked at the statements and documents she provided in reply to my provisional 
decision and I find no support in them for her suggestion.Overall, and in conclusion, I find Ludlows advice to set up and fund the trust, with its bond 
investment, and the service and advice it gave to Mrs R later in connection with the income 
arising from the trust, to be suitable. In light of this and all Ive said above, my view remains 
that I should not uphold Mrs Rs complaint about those things. So Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
Im grateful to Mrs R for her courtesy throughout the course of our investigation and I thank 
both parties for the assistance they have given us during our inquiries. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman