DRN-4051233
The complaint
Mr N has complained about advice he said he was given when he made a claim under his U 
K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance (UKI) home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N contacted UKI to make a claim when water entered his home during bad weather. UKI 
sent a surveyor and the claim was declined. Mr N later complained to UKI because he said 
the surveyor had told him the chimney needed repointing and that this would cost about 
£300, which was less than the £350 excess on the policy, so the claim wouldnt continue. Mr 
N said he then acted on that advice. The repointing work had cost £800 and hadnt fixed the 
issue. So, he said UKI should cover the cost of the work carried out as he had acted on the 
incorrect advice of UKIs surveyor, along with the cost of replacing roof tiles, which was the 
actual source of the issue.
When UKI replied, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said the report didnt support that Mr N 
was given advice about his chimney and any advice given would have been on a private 
basis. It also said it wasnt able to cover the cost of the roof tiles, which Mr Ns builder had 
said needed to be replaced due to poor workmanship.
So, Mr N complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said it was 
more likely than not that the surveyor did give advice about the roof pointing and that it 
wasnt reasonable for UKI to say this was offered on a private basis. He said that as Mr N 
had acted on that advice, UKI should pay Mr N £300, which was the amount the surveyor 
had said the work was likely to cost, along with £100 compensation.
As UKI didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 6 March 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
I should note that I am only considering the issue of the advice given by the surveyor. Im not 
looking at whether UKI should have accepted the claim itself.
Mr N said the surveyor inspected the chimney with a pole camera and told him the issue 
wasnt with the roof but that the chimney needed repointing. Mr N told this service the 
surveyor said:
because the insurance excess was £350, it would cost us less if we went direct to a 
roofer, which would be approx. £300, for these repairs than claim on the insurance and 
therefore he would not continue with our claim.
Im aware the surveyor has said he didnt advise Mr N about how water was entering his 
property. Ive also read the surveyors report. This said the claim was declined because of 
Age Related Wear & Tear. The report said there was no evidence of storm damage to the 
roof and chimney, but that there were cracks at the top of the chimney, which had occurred 
gradually over time. It also referred to moss growth to the flaunching. I didnt see any 
reference to the claim being declined because of the cost of the claim, that the repairs would 
cost about £300 or that there was an issue with the pointing. 
However, even if I accepted that the surveyor discussed the repairs or said they would cost 
£300, based on what Ive currently seen, I still wouldnt be persuaded UKI needed to pay 
towards the work carried out to the chimney. This is because Mr N said he got three quotes 
for the work. It was for Mr N to advise each company that provided a quote what work he 
wanted carried out and why. Each company appeared to think there was an issue with the 
chimney based on the information they were given, including potentially assessing the 
chimney themselves, or else its not clear why they would have provided a quote. I dont 
think UKI can fairly be held responsible for the instructions the contractors were given or any 
assessment the contractors made of the appropriate work to carry out or the related costs.
Mr N has said he didnt have much choice but to accept one of the quotes as UKI wouldnt 
deal with the claim. He said that about a month after the chimney work was completed, 
water leaked into the property again. Mr N asked the contractor to revisit but said he was 
told the contractor had only done what had been asked.
Mr N complained to UKI about the surveyor and said two roofers had advised him the roof 
tiles needed replacing. He asked why the surveyor hadnt said anything about the condition 
of the roof. He also said he wanted the money back for the chimney pointing. 
Ive seen an email Mr Ns wife sent to the contractor shortly after Mr N made the complaint. 
This said:
Recently you did some work on our chimney. We have recently had roof specialists to 
check and it was a very poor rushed job. The silicone wasnt even in the chimney. It blew off 
down the drive.
Overall we feel it was a poor job and are requesting kindly to be refunded fully or partially.
So, I think this suggested Mr N thought there was an issue with the contractors suitability to 
carry out the work. I note that at this stage, following the assessment by roofing specialists, 
the email didnt suggest that the work to the chimney was unnecessary, but rather that the 
work was carried out to a poor standard. UKI wasnt responsible if the contractor didnt carry 
out the work properly.
So, having thought above all the above, Im not currently persuaded UKI was responsible for 
the work carried out on the chimney. I dont currently intend to uphold the complaint or to 
require UKI to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 27 March 2023.
Mr N replied and, in summary, said:
A specialist roofing company had carried out further works, which had cost £1,350. The 
company inspected the previous companys workmanship and found this to be fault-free.
The next rainfall after the works were completed, water still entered the living room. 
Tests were then carried out, which found that the flue was the source of the issue. It will 
cost £200 for that work to be carried out.
He wasnt making a complaint about the standard of workmanship of the chimney 
pointing. The complaint was about the surveyors advice. If the surveyor had advised the 
solution was a new flue, Mr N could have replaced this for £200. But all the work will now 
cost £2,350.When Mr N obtained the quotes, he said he wanted the chimney repointed because this 
was what the surveyor had said was the solution. Mr N accepted this was correct 
because he was a professional surveyor.
UKI didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive looked at the comments provided by Mr N, but 
these dont change my view.
I was aware the complaint was about the surveyors advice. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, I didnt see evidence in the surveyors report that he gave advice to Mr N about the 
pointing. However, even if I accepted that the surveyor did do this, Im still not persuaded the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr N requested the quotes for the pointing. Three companies 
provided quotes, which suggested they thought there were some repairs that needed to be 
carried out. 
I note Mr N initially said that although the surveyor said the issue was with the pointing that 
two roofers had told him the issue was with the roof itself. Mr N then had work carried out on 
the roof, but this still didnt fix the issue. Mr N said he has now been told the issue is with the 
flue. Any discussion of whether the work to the chimney or the roof was necessary or would 
resolve the problem of water entering the property was for Mr N to have with the builders.
Mr N also described the various tests that were carried out to identify that the flue was the 
source of the issue and said it would have cost Mr N £200 to get it fixed if the surveyor had 
advised that was the solution. The surveyors role was to assess whether there was a claim 
covered by the policy. It wasnt to carry out a range of tests to identify the source of the 
issue. Once the surveyor had assessed whether there was a valid claim, he didnt need to 
continue to look for the source of the water entering the property.
So, having considered this complaint again, including the additional comments provided, I 
dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman