DRN-3031314
The complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2005. 
Mr C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The adjudicator concluded Mr Cs mis-sale complaint wasnt one we should help with. They 
said wed already considered Mr Cs complaint. And in the absence of any new material 
evidence, it wouldnt be appropriate for us to look at it again.
But they thought Lloydss offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share Mr C paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information Mr C and his representative gave us to decide whether
we should continue to consider his complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the conclusion 
that this service should not continue to deal with this matter, and it should be dismissed. I will 
explain why.
I dont have to deal with all complaints which are sent to our Service; and I must act within
my powers which are set out by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 along with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules. These can be found 
on the FCAs website.
DISP rule 3.3.4 says:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman
considers that
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The DISP rule goes on to say:
Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the effective
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which
the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become
available to the complainant) 
Mr C has previously complained to us about this policy and a decision on the complaint 
about how the policy was sold was made in 2013. The file was then closed.
It seems that Mr C now wishes to make the same complaint about mis-sold PPI again.
So, I have decided to apply DISP rule 3.3.4 and I am going to dismiss this complaint
without considering its merits because Im satisfied it will seriously impair the effective
operation of this Service as the subject matter of the complaint has previously been
considered by us. So, Ive decided its not appropriate for us to take the mis-sale complaint 
further.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr C about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr C was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr Cs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr C should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr C about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr C wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr C in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing 
the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Cs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr C paid for his PPI policy -  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Lloydss payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.As Lloyds has already paid Mr C compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided that we should not consider Mr Cs mis-sale 
complaint further.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr C an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) As Lloyds Bank 
PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Lloyds Bank PLC 
should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman