DRN-3869302
The complaint
A  a company  has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined a claim it 
made under its Commercial Property Insurance Policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full detail here. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, and my role within it. However, I assure the parties that Ive carefully considered all 
of the available evidence.
To briefly summarise the key background to this complaint, A made a claim for subsidence 
damage to a service road behind a row of commercial property units it owns. Following 
investigations undertaken by its loss adjuster, AXA declined the claim. It said the damage 
had happened gradually as a result of works undertaken to the road by As neighbour in 
2015 and 2018. It said this wasnt something covered under the terms of As policy.
A brought its complaint to our service but our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said the policy excluded damage as a result of faulty design or construction and/or 
inherent defects, gradual deterioration or wear and tear. So, she felt AXAs decision was fair.
A didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement had been reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to that reached by our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision to give everyone a chance to reply before I reached a final decision.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded to reach a different outcome to that reached by 
our investigator, and to uphold As complaint. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Its not in dispute that the dominant cause of damage in this case is the works 
undertaken by As neighbour to rebuild their premises, remove underground drainage 
beneath the surface road and attaching their new drainage system to As  without 
As consent. Nor is it in dispute that A was aware of the works undertaken by its 
neighbour.
As policy includes some elements of legal expenses cover. But having reviewed the 
policy document, it seems the majority of this cover is for the defence of legal action, 
rather than the pursuit of legal action. And the one element that seems to cover the 
pursuit of legal action focuses solely on the eviction of unauthorised occupants. So, it 
doesnt appear that this element of cover under the policy would respond to the loss 
A has suffered as a result of the neighbours actions in this case.
I can see that AXAs loss adjuster considered that A had failed to disclose 
information about the works undertaken by its neighbour. But I cant see that AXA 
has sought to apply any of the remedies available, under the relevant legislation, for 
non-disclosure. Rather, it declined the claim based on some exclusions within the 
policy wording. So, Ive not considered any alleged non-disclosure, and have instead 
focused on AXAs decision to decline the claim based on the exclusions it relied on.
AXAs position is that the issue is a civil matter between A and its neighbour. It says 
there is no insured peril for it to cover. In addition, AXA says the following exclusions 
apply:
All other DAMAGE
1. To any PROPERTY caused by
a. Its own defective design or materials
b. Inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration wear and tear
c. Faulty or defective workmanship on the part of the Insured or any 
of their employees but this shall not exclude subsequent DAMAGE 
which itself results from a cause not otherwise excluded
AXA has conceded that As neighbour cannot be considered an employee and so 1c 
does not apply. But it says that both 1a and 1b apply to the circumstances of As 
loss.
Firstly, its important to note that As policy is an All Risks policy rather than a Perils 
based policy. This means it covers damage by any cause, which isnt specifically 
excluded, rather than damage caused only by specified insured perils. So, I dont 
think AXA is correct to say there is no peril, as damage by any cause could 
potentially be covered, subject to the policy exclusions.
Ive thought carefully about AXAs application of exclusions 1a and 1b above. But I 
dont think applying those exclusions to As loss, in this case, is fair or reasonable. I 
say this because, to me, the intention of those exclusions is to protect AXA from 
being liable for poorly constructed property (as defined). But in this case, there is no 
evidence to suggest that the service road was poorly constructed or defective at the 
point it was constructed, or prior to the unauthorised works undertaken by As 
neighbour.
In order for exclusions 1a (and the inherent defect part of 1b) to apply, Id need to be 
persuaded that the defective design/materials or inherent defect were present at the 
point of construction. But AXA hasnt shown thats the case here. And its for AXA, as 
the insurer, to demonstrate that a policy exclusion applies. So, I dont think exclusion 
1a can be reasonably relied on to decline As claim.In terms of the gradual deterioration/wear and tear element of exclusion 1b, the 
evidence does suggest the damage has happened gradually. But only since the 
works undertaken by the neighbour. So, there is a clear proximate cause of the 
damage here, which has resulted in the gradual damage, rather than the road 
suffering normal gradual damage/wear and tear based on its age and usage  which 
is my view of the purpose of this exclusion. In these circumstances, I dont think it 
would be fair to conclude that exclusion 1b can reasonably be applied either.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont agree that AXAs decision to decline 
the claim, based on the exclusions it relied on, was fair or reasonable. So, Im 
intending to direct AXA to reconsider As claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Should this result in AXA deciding to cover the claim, it may 
wish to consider pursuing a recovery from As neighbour using its rights of 
subrogation  but thats something for AXA to decide itself once it reaches a decision 
on the claim.
As a commercial entity, A cannot experience distress, only inconvenience. But as I 
think the decision AXA reached on the claim was incorrect, and the matter remains 
unresolved, I think its reasonable to conclude that A has been inconvenienced by 
AXAs decision. So, in addition to reconsidering the claim, I think AXA should pay A 
£200 for the impact it has suffered as a result of the incorrect claim decision.
AXA responded to confirm that it accepted my provisional decision.
A didnt respond, and the deadline to do so has now passed, so Im moving forward with my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments, in response to my provisional decision, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in that decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold As complaint.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
Reconsider As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay A £200 for the inconvenience it has suffered as a result of the incorrect 
repudiation of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman