DRN-1772567
 
The complaint
 Mrs R says she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1995. 
AXA France IARDs (AXA) taken responsibility for the sale for the purposes of this complaint.
What happened
Mrs R took out a PPI policy which primarily helped to protect her monthly store card 
repayments in the event of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs R didnt agree 
with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Mrs R signed. It appears AXA 
made her aware it was offering optional PPI as a separate product and that she 
chose to take it by ticking a box. I can understand if she doesnt remember that now, 
after all this time.
I dont believe AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs R. So, it didnt have to check if the 
PPI was right for her. But AXA should have given her the information she needed to 
decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And I can see why as, for example, she was eligible for the cover 
and wasnt significantly affected by any of the policys main exclusions and 
restrictions. Although the policy didnt cover claims for pre-existing medical conditions 
and Mrs R had been diagnosed with high blood pressure, I dont think this would 
have put her off the PPI. Thats because her condition appeared to be relatively 
controlled by 1995 and hadnt caused her any time off work. 
Despite being entitled to enhanced sick pay for a time, the PPI benefits were 
considerable and could potentially have paid out until the account balance was paid 
off. They covered her for unemployment too. Mrs Rs given different accounts of how 
much she held in savings, including that she had none at all, so I havent taken 
savings into account when considering what alternative means she had of meeting 
her card repayments if she wasnt working. 
I cant see anything to indicate Mrs R would have found the regular premium unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that she could have cancelled it at any time, 
and at no extra cost, if she no longer wanted it. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs Rs said, including that we upheld another of her 
complaints about AXA. However, we determine each complaint on its own facts. Having 
done so here, I dont believe shes lost out because of how AXA sold her this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman