DRN-1745694
complaint 
Ms S says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Ms S applied for a credit card in September 2007 and was sold the PPI a few weeks later.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms S disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Ms S, Barclaycard shouldve made it clear the policy was optional. It 
also shouldve got Ms Ss agreement to take it out. Ms S says the PPI was presented as a 
condition of having the card and it was not clearly explained that it was a separate and 
optional product. It seems Ms S applied for her credit card over the internet. At this stage 
she didnt take out the PPI. It was however, added to her account a few weeks later when 
Ms S activated her credit card. Barclaycard no longer has a copy of the telephone call during 
which Ms S was sold the PPI. This is unfortunate, but not surprising given how long ago the 
sale took place. And businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
In the absence of a call recording I have to consider Ms Ss comments alongside the 
evidence provided by Barclaycard and consider this in light of what we know in general 
about how PPI was sold at the time. 
Barclaycard has provided a copy of the script its advisers were required to follow when 
selling PPI. Ive looked carefully at the guidelines Barclaycards representatives were 
expected to follow during these types of calls. And they show that the adviser shouldve 
made it clear to Ms S that the PPI was optional, and it shouldve got Ms Ss consent before 
adding the cover. 
As Ms S has highlighted, we cannot know for certain what she was told during the call, and 
she feels given the limited evidence from both sides it is unfair for our service to find in 
favour of Barclaycard. I appreciate Ms Ss frustration, but over the years our service has built 
up a detailed understanding of how PPI was sold by different businesses and general 
industry practices. And in situations where we have limited evidence about what happened 
during a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened, after weighing 
up all the evidence. In Ms Ss case I think there would have been a general expectation that 
the adviser would follow the guidelines set out. I have also carefully considered Ms Ss 
comments, but they to do not persuade me that on this occasion the adviser deviated 
significantly from the script. I must also highlight that Ms S had been able to successfully apply for her credit card online 
without taking PPI, which highlights that she didnt have to take out the PPI in order to have 
the credit card.  
So on balance, I think its more likely that Barclaycard offered Ms S a choice to buy PPI and 
that she chose to take it. 
Barclaycard provided Ms S with advice when it sold her the PPI. This means it shouldve 
made sure the policy was right for Ms S based on her circumstances at the time. Based on 
what Ive seen of Ms Ss circumstances at the time the PPI was sold, I think it was. I say 
this because:
Ms S appears to have been eligible for the policy.
 
Based on what Ms Ss told us about his circumstances at the time of sale she 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  like known 
health issues or unusual employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop 
her claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to. Ms S has referred to a 
period of time when she was self-employed, and she says that this meant she 
wouldnt qualify for the cover. Being self-employed doesnt mean Ms S wouldnt 
qualify for the cover, it does however mean that she wouldve had to meet different 
requirements under the policy in order to claim for unemployment. But looking at her 
circumstances at the time of sale Ms S was employed and these terms wouldnt have 
applied to her. 
 
Ms S has told us she wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. The PPI 
couldve been of use to Ms S as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on 
the card for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to illness or if she was made 
redundant. This wouldve been on top of any employer benefits she wouldve got, 
meaning she wouldve been able to use this for other everyday living expenses.
 
Ms S says she had a life insurance policy which wouldve assisted her. However, life 
insurance provides a different form or protection to the PPI which wouldve assisted if 
she lost her job or was too sick to work. So I dont think the fact she had life cover 
made the PPI unsuitable for her. Ms S has also said she couldve relied on help from 
her partner or family had she needed it. I dont doubt that it would have been the 
intention of Ms Ss partner or family to help. But circumstances can change and 
theres no guarantee that assistance would have been available to Ms S as and 
when she needed it.
 
Barclaycard has told us the PPI wouldve cost Ms S 70p per £100 of her outstanding 
monthly balance. I havent seen anything to suggest this wasnt affordable to Ms S.
 
As well as checking the policy was suitable for Ms S, Barclaycard also shouldve given her 
clear information about the policy so that she could make a proper choice about whether 
to take it out. I dont know what steps Barclaycard took to do this and its possible some 
things werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer 
information wouldve changed Ms Ss decision. I think shed still have bought it. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for her.Ms S says she tried to cancel the PPI in 2008/2009 when she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. She says she was told this wasnt possible and she had to have the PPI in place 
if she wanted the credit card. I have asked Barclaycard to check its records and it has 
confirmed it hasnt got any details of Ms S contacting them during this period to cancel the 
PPI. 
Ms S has also queried the amount Barclaycard has agreed to pay back as part of its review 
of the commission she paid within her PPI policy. Barclaycard has provided a breakdown of 
the premiums Ms S paid over the years and looking at this it seems the refund Ms S has 
received is in line with the guidance provided to businesses when calculating commission 
refunds. 
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said, but I dont think Barclaycard needs to do any 
more in Ms Ss case. I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms S as she feels strongly 
about her case. But I hope my decision clearly set out why I am not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman