DRN-3672105
The complaint
K complains that Bryan James & Co Ltd trading as Brass Band Insurance Services (BBIS) 
failed to meet its obligation as a broker when renewing Ks policy.
As a trustee of K, Mr D brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
K is a charity that operates as a band of musicians. It has insurance to cover its premises, 
contents and equipment that it takes out through a broker. The policy has renewed each 
year since its inception, which was around 2007. 
In June 2019 there was a fire at the premises and Mr D made a claim on Ks policy. The 
insurer of the policy accepted the claim, however it said that K was underinsured for a 
number of areas of policy cover. It therefore applied an average to the settlement amounts. 
Mr D didnt think this was fair. He said the differentiation between the different areas of cover 
hadnt been made clear when the policy was taken out and renewed. In particular, it wasnt 
clear what should fall under contents and band equipment. And he said as the total sum 
insured, when all sections are added up, was correct, K shouldnt be penalised for the 
unclear definitions of each section of cover. 
Mr D made a complaint to BBIS. He also said that it hadnt supported him adequately 
through the claim and had failed to index link the sum insured each year, which had further 
impacted the claim amount that the insurer paid. As BBIS failed to respond to his complaint 
in the required time, Mr D brought the complaint to this service to investigate. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld in part. 
He said as the claim settlement and policy wording were the responsibility of the insurer, he 
couldnt hold BBIS responsible for these. And while the original sale of the policy was too 
long ago for this service to look into, he was satisfied BBIS had provided details about the 
sum insured at each renewal and the onus would have been on Mr D to ensure this was 
sufficient for Ks needs. However he agreed that BBIS hadnt index linked the sum insured in 
the 2019 policy year. And he thought it should recalculate the claim settlement based on the 
index linked amount and pay the difference in the settlement to K.
BBIS didnt respond to our investigators outcome. However K didnt think the outcome went 
far enough, as it said BBIS hadnt made it clear which items should be included under which 
sum insured. Mr D said he also didnt think BBIS did enough to support him with the claim 
and thought the sum insured wasnt indexed link at a number of different renewals, so the 
resolution to the complaint should reflect this.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has arisen because the settlement Ks insurer paid out for its claim was 
reduced due to it being underinsured. Mr D doesnt think the way the items insured have 
been apportioned between the different categories for sums insured is fair. Nor does he think 
the policy is clear in explaining what each sum insured relates to. The settlement of the claim 
and the wording of the policy are both matters that are decided by the insurer of the policy. 
As the complaint I am reviewing relates to BBIS - the broker, I cant consider these matters. 
As BBIS had no involvement in either the claim decision or writing the policy and its 
definitions. I can therefore only consider how the broker dealt with the sale or renewal of the 
policies and the information it provided to Mr D.
Further, while the initial date of inception of the policy isnt clear, BBIS has confirmed it was 
before 2007. And the policy has renewed each year since. The FCA sets out a set of rules 
that govern which complaints this service can look into, these are called the Dispute 
Resolution rules (DISP) and can be found in the FCA handbook. They include a rule 
relating to time limits for when a complaint can be brought to this service. And were unable 
to consider complaints that are brought to us more than six years after the event that is 
being complained about, or three years after the complainant realised they had cause to 
complain. 
Here, it would have been clear to Mr D, or any former trustee, if there hadnt been enough 
information provided at the point of sale and therefore that they had cause to complain. So 
as the sale was considerably more than six years before the complaint was brought to this 
service, I wont be able to consider the initial sale of the policy. Therefore my review will 
focus on the renewals of the policy in the six years leading up to the claim. 
Information provided at renewals
Both Mr D and BBIS have provided copies of renewals from the years leading up to the 
claim in 2019, including the relevant policy year. I can see that in each of those provided a 
policy schedule is included in the renewal documents. And this shows the breakdown of the 
sums insured and that they are split into various categories with the amount insured printed 
next to each. The cover letter provided with the documents also draws attention specifically 
to the amounts insured and asks Mr D to ensure these amounts are correct for Ks needs. 
I think the documentation was enough to show Mr D what was insured under each section 
and to highlight that it was his responsibility to ensure the amounts are correct for K. 
I note Mr D doesnt think BBIS made it clear enough what the definition of each section for 
the sums insured included. However there is a brief description of what the cover for each 
includes. And if Mr D had been unsure about whether the amounts listed were sufficient for 
each section, it would be for him to check that the amount was correct. And Ive seen 
nothing to show that Mr D asked BBIS to clarify what each section referred to in order to 
ensure these were correct. Instead from what Ive seen, each year the documents were sent, 
including the details of the sums insured, and Mr D didnt query these amounts. 
For these reasons I think BBIS did enough to meet its obligation as a broker when renewing 
Ks policy. It provided clear information about what the sums insured were set as and gave 
Mr D the opportunity to check these each year. 
Index linking
Mr D has said that the policy states the sums insured will be index linked each policy year to 
make up for usual price increases. Hes provided details of areas of the policy that he says havent been index linked over the years leading up to the claim. 
BBIS has confirmed that in the policy year 2019 the policy wasnt index linked. And it has 
said there was no reason for this other than it being an omission. Ive looked at the renewal 
documents from that year and the cover letter clearly states that the sums insured have 
been index linked. As this hasnt been done, I agree that BBIS has made an error. And if it 
hadnt, Ks policy would have included larger sums insured at the time of the claim and 
therefore would have benefited from a slightly higher claim payment. 
Therefore to put things right, I agree with our investigator that BBIS should calculate the 
correct sums insured had the policy been indexed linked at the 2019 renewal, and therefore 
the correct settlement based on the average applied by the insurer. It should then pay K the 
shortfall in the index linked settlement and the settlement paid by the insurer to make up for 
this error.
Mr D has said that he thinks there were other years when index linking also wasnt applied. 
However this is to areas of the policy such as the contents, where costs dont rise as 
sharply. And during these years the sum insured elsewhere in the policy does appear to 
have increased. Further BBIS has only identified one year before the claim when index 
linking wasnt applied, so Ive not seen enough to persuade me that further increases were 
missed. For this reason I dont consider it fair to ask BBIS to pay any additional increases.
Support throughout the claim
Mr D has also said that he doesnt feel BBIS has provided the correct level of support during 
the claim. I can see that this claim has resulted due to a really distressing situation. And that 
the fact the full claim amount hasnt been paid has no doubt caused Mr D and K difficulties. 
However when a claim is made, the role of a broker is to ensure information is passed 
effectively between the customer and the insurer. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
this wasnt the case. So while the matter would have undoubtedly caused Mr D some 
distress, from what Ive seen this is due to the claim and the outcome of the claim rather 
than the actions of BBIS. So I havent found that BBIS got anything wrong in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ks complaint in part. I require Bryan James & Co Ltd  
trading as Brass Band Insurance Services to:
Calculate the correct sums insured for Ks 2019 policy renewal based on the relevant 
index linking that should have been applied for that policy year.
Re-calculate the settlement amount offered by Ks insurer based on the correct sums 
insured and the average that was applied by the insurer.
Pay K the difference between the correct amount based on the index linked sums 
insured and the settlement it was originally paid by the insurer, to make up for the 
shortfall caused by its error. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman