DRN-2376398
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that he was without an TSB Bank plc card for several months. He says 
this caused him inconvenience and resulted in him falling behind with his rent, increasing the 
debt on his credit card and needing to sell possessions.
What happened
Mr B was told his new bank card had been issued on 2 December 2019, but by mid-January 
2020 the card still hadnt arrived, and he raised a complaint. The card arrived on 22 January 
2020, but Mr B then received a letter saying that the card had been blocked due to the delay 
and a new card had been issued. Mr B says the second card didnt arrive and on 19 March 
he travelled to the nearest branch (which involved a train journey) to withdraw money. He 
says he also ordered another replacement card (card 3). He says that the card still didnt 
arrive and so he travelled again to the branch on 17 April and then again on 27 April. Each 
time a new card was ordered, and he withdrew money. 
On 30 April his card arrived but Mr B says when he tried to use it on 1 May this wasnt 
possible as he needed a new PIN. He therefore revisited the branch to withdraw money and 
order a new PIN. He says this arrived on 13 May meaning he didnt have an active bank 
card from 21 January to 13 May 2020.
Mr B says that not having an active bank card meant he wasnt able to withdraw money 
locally from the ATM and that he struggled to travel to the branch due to his health issues. 
He says the issue meant he fell behind with his rent, increased his spending on his credit 
card and needed to sell possessions. 
In its final response letter dated 17 January 2020, TSB said that Mr Bs new bank card was 
issued on 2 December 2019 and it should have arrived before he raised his concerns on 11 
January 2020. The complaint handler said they had reviewed Mr Bs address held on file and 
noticed that there was an error in how this was formatted. This was amended. The letter 
explained that the card issued on 2 December had been blocked to remove any concerns 
about any fraudulent activity and a new card was issued. It said the new card should be with 
Mr B within two to three days and that a new PIN wasnt needed. It credited Mr Bs account 
with £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused and 
said it would consider evidence of expenses Mr B had incurred due to the issue.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She said Mr B was without an active card for an 
extended period meaning he couldnt withdraw money unless he visited a branch and given 
his health issues this was an inconvenience. She said that there wasnt evidence to show 
that Mr B was sent a new card on all the occasions when he requested this and that after the 
card arrived Mr B had to order a new PIN causing a further delay. She noted the impact not 
having an active card had on Mr B and thought that TSB should pay a further £350 
compensation (bringing the total paid to £400).
TSB didnt accept our investigators recommendation to increase the total compensation 
amount from £50 (already paid) to £400. It said it had no record of Mr B requesting a 
replacement card on his first two visits to the branch and said that Mr B could have made 
contact by telephone to chase the missing card. It said it had evidence that Mr B requested 
the card in branch on 27 April and this was issued a few days later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B should have received his new bank card before his previous card expired. TSB 
has confirmed the new card was issued on 2 December and so should have been 
with Mr B before he reported his concerns on 11 January. Mr B did then receive the 
bank card later in January, but TSB had decided to block this card. Given the delay I 
find it reasonable that TSB would consider the bank card missing and that it blocked 
the card to prevent any misuse. It reissued a second card which should have arrived 
within a few days. TSB identified that Mr Bs address was incorrectly formatted on its 
system and this could have been the reason for the delay in the arrival of the first 
card. Given the upset caused by this issue and that TSB accepted the issue could 
have been due to its recording of Mr Bs address, I find that £50 compensation at that 
time was reasonable.
However, further issue then arose. Mr B didnt receive the second card that TSB 
issued. By this time his previous bank card had expired meaning he couldnt make 
any withdrawals from the cash machine near him. While this may not be an issue for 
some customers, it was an issue for Mr B. I have looked through his bank statements 
and can see that when he had an active bank card he would make regular cash 
withdrawals. He has explained that he fell behind with his rent as he couldnt make 
these withdrawals and that he had to source funds elsewhere resulting in further 
interest costs and inconvenience. Mr B has explained that he needed to use public 
transport to reach his nearest TSB branch and that he has health issues that make 
this difficult. Therefore, I accept that any delay in Mr B receiving the bank card would 
have a significant impact on him.
I cannot hold TSB responsible for the post not being delivered once it had updated 
Mr Bs address. However, I can consider whether the actions it took were enough to 
address the issues Mr B was experiencing. TSBs contact notes show Mr B 
contacted it on 13 February 2020 to say the second bank card he was told had been 
sent hadnt arrived. He asked at that time for the previous card that had arrived in 
late January to be unblocked. I cannot see what action was taken as a result of this 
contact, but Mr B didnt receive a new bank card as a result of his reporting the issue.
Mr B visited the TSB branch in March 2020. I accept that by this time he needed to 
withdraw money and so will have made the journey even though this may have been 
difficult for him. He withdrew moony in branch and while I note TSBs comments that 
it has no record of a new bank card being ordered at this time, I find it more likely 
than not that Mr B would have expleind his situation when withdrawing the money 
and that based on this, action should have been taken by TSB. It appears that no 
further action was taken at this time.
Mr B then visited the branch again on 17 April to withdraw money. Again, while I note 
TSBs comments I find it more likely than not that he would have explained that he 
didnt have an active bank card and that TSB should have taken the relevant action 
at this time. Had a new card been issues following Mr Bs contact in February 2020 or following 
his branch visit in March 2020, this issue could have been resolved much sooner.
TSB has said that a new card was order following Mr Bs branch visit on 27 April and 
Mr B has said this arrived. However, a new PIN was then needed. This meant Mr B 
had to return to the branch to withdraw funds and he also ordered a new PIN.
I appreciate the comments made about Mr B being able to call to chase the card 
rather than having to visit a branch, but Mr B wanted to withdraw money from his 
account. The only way he could do this was to visit the branch. Therefore, I do not 
find it unreasonable given the situation and the issues Mr B had experienced that he 
raised his concerns in branch.
Mr B was without an active bank card for several months. I assess each case based 
on its individual merits and award compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience that has been suffered by the customer. This will vary depending on 
the customers circumstances. In this case Mr B found it difficult to visit a branch and 
struggled with making his rental payments due to not having the bank card. 
Therefore, while I agree that £50 was reasonable compensation based on the issue 
identified in January 2020, I think that TSB could have taken steps to have reduced 
the delays that arose in this case. Therefore, I agree with our investigator that further 
compensation should be paid, and I also agree with her recommendation of a further 
£350.
Based on the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should pay Mr B an additional £350 (bringing the total amount of 
compensation paid to £400) to reflect the distress, costs and inconvenience he was caused 
by being without his bank card for several months.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should take the actions set out 
above to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman