DRN-1118145
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs H took out the PPI in 2000 at the same time as arranging a further advance on her 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the PPI application form, which is not surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place. The lack of paperwork does make the complaint 
more difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence that we do 
have as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
Mrs H says she was not aware that PPI had been added to the mortgage account. From 
what we know of Lloyds sales process at the time, the policy would have been presented as 
optional, with an applicant having to sign a form to agree to the PPI. I havent seen any 
evidence that anything different happened in this case.
Mrs H says she is certain that she wouldnt have agreed to buy PPI. Ive no doubt that Mrs H 
has provided her honest recollection of events. But the sale happened such a long time ago 
that it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded. Ive thought very carefully about what 
Mrs H has said but, overall, Im unable to conclude that she wasnt given a choice about 
buying the policy. I find it just as likely that she decided to take it out, knowing she didnt 
have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Mrs H says she wasnt eligible for the policy but I havent seen anything to suggest this was 
the case. Eligibility was based on things like being employed, being between 18-65 years old 
and living in the UK. So Im satisfied that Mrs H was eligible for it.
I think that Mrs H is really talking about whether or not she had a need for the policy, rather 
than whether she met the eligibility criteria. Lloyds says it advised Mrs H to buy the policy. 
Therefore, in recommending it to her, it needed to ensure that it was suitable for her needs. 
And based on what I know of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable.Mrs H would have received sick pay from her employer. But the policy would have paid out 
in addition to this and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. Mrs H 
says she had some savings, but having the policy would have allowed her to retain these or 
use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. She says that 
family would have helped, but other people cant always be relied upon as their 
circumstances can change. Mrs H says she could have sold her car and that she had equity 
in her home. But having the policy would have meant that she wouldnt need to resort to 
such drastic measures. Overall, I consider that Mrs H had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it if shed been unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policy is it could have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mrs H had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she isnt any worse 
off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres nothing Lloyds needs to 
do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman