DRN-3609979
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how shes been treated by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mrs S says that over the last 22 years she was bullied, victimised, ostracised, discriminated 
against, harassed, robbed, deceived, and generally abused by Halifax. She said she was 
bullied into opening an Ultimate Reward Current Account by Halifax when they knew it was 
of no value to her.
She said their bullying took many forms, was over a period of more than 18 years, and 
caused her serious physical and mental health issues. She said Halifax made 
communication preferences on her account without her choosing.
She also said Halifax gave incorrect information to this service that led to an ombudsman 
issuing a final decision not upholding her complaint.
She also said that a former employee of a bank attacked her verbally on a social media 
forum where she was commenting on these issues.
She said this complaint wasnt about the mis-selling of the packaged bank account  she 
says its about poor service from a corrupt banking system for more than 18 years. She said 
Halifax lied when they said theyd sent documents which she never received, and they said 
shed lost her debit card, but she still has it. She says theyve lied and cheated to extort 
money from her account.
She said she wanted a refund of all fees shed paid over 18 years for the mis-sale of the 
account, and personal compensation for the period from 2010.
Halifax said Mrs S had paid £30 in unplanned bank charges in 2014. They said all other 
charges were in line with the terms of her account.
They also said that they were unaware of the issues Mrs S had now raised. They said they 
could have taken steps if she had raised the issues with them at the time.
Our investigator said Halifax hadnt been able to investigate any issues as there was no 
record of Mrs S raising service issues with them before the account was closed in 2015. So 
she couldnt say that there had been any error by Halifax.
Mrs S disagreed and felt that the investigator hadnt covered many of the issues shed 
raised. So the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations, and any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice. 
Mrs S has provided a number of detailed submissions about the investigations shes 
undertaken, the bullying that she says shes suffered from Halifax, and how this service and 
other third parties have been misled by Halifaxs lies. Ive only summarised these in the 
background above. But Id like to reassure her that I have read and considered her 
correspondence in full.
I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to consider the circumstances as a whole.
The packaged bank account
Mrs S has provided detailed submissions about the packaged bank account, when it was 
opened, whether or not it was an upgrade or a new account, why she didnt need it, and the 
misleading representations she said our ombudsman relied on.
One of our ombudsmen reviewed her complaint in April 2018, giving his final decision on the 
issues raised by Mrs S regarding the sale of the packaged bank account to her. His final 
decision was that he didnt think Halifax had mis-sold the packaged bank account to Mrs S. 
Mrs S is unhappy with the ombudsmans decision, and shes said why she believes it is 
wrong. And shes submitted documents shes collected that she says are relevant to that 
decision. 
Ive reviewed the submissions shes made. Im satisfied that the issues shes raised were 
addressed in the final decision. Mrs S has provided lengthy submissions about the date of 
the sale of the account. The issue was whether or not this happened in 1997 as she said, or 
2010 as Halifax claimed. The ombudsman was satisfied that the account was sold in 2010.
He also covered the availability and amount of the overdraft facility, and why he felt that it 
was most likely that she chose to upgrade to it. 
Mrs S strongly disagrees with the ombudsmans decision. Ive carefully considered her 
submissions and I can see no new information that wasnt available at the time he made the 
decision, and that would lead to the ombudsman reaching a different outcome. Thats 
because the ombudsman had all the information he felt necessary to reach that decision. 
And he acknowledged that Halifax might not have explained everything to Mrs S at the time, 
but he felt she would still have opened the account.
So I wont be revisiting the issues around the sale of the packaged bank account or the fees 
that were charged under the terms and conditions of that account. 
Halifax behaviour
Mrs S has clearly spent a significant amount of her time investigating the matters shes 
raised in her letters. Shes described how Halifax behaviour has had an impact on her 
personal health.Mrs S said that the bullying arose from the Halifax lying, omitting, misleading, time wasting, 
about the URCA that was mis sold in 1997. She said they also lied to other third parties 
about the same issue, including this service.
I havent seen any evidence that Halifax has deliberately treated Mrs S unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
Mrs S complains that Halifax changed her personal customer details without her consent or 
knowledge. And that her marketing preferences were changed without her knowledge. She 
cites these as evidence of her mistreatment by Halifax. Both of these events happened 
many years ago. I cant see that these were raised with Halifax when the account was open 
 so they wouldnt have been aware that there was an issue. And if it had been brought to 
their attention when the account was live I wouldve expected them to put it right at the time. 
But as the account was closed in 2015 theres nothing more I can ask them to do.
Overall, I think the issues Mrs S has raised relate to her frustration with the packaged bank 
account, and the final decision issued in April 2018 by one of our ombudsmen. But in the 
circumstances, Im not satisfied that Halifax has deliberately or otherwise bullied Mrs S or 
treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman