DRN-3025470
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Tesco Underwriting Limited has voided his home insurance policies.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 August 2021 detailing my intention to 
not uphold Mr Fs complaint, I said:
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. so, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr Fs policies in 2018, 2019 and 2020 were with Tesco Bank Insurance with Tesco 
Underwriting as the Insurer/underwriter. In 2017 the policy was with Tesco Bank but 
with a different insurer/underwriter.
Tesco Underwriting says Mr F made a misrepresentation by not telling it about a 
subsidence claim he made in August 2018 under his 2017/2018 policy. In February 
2021 it discovered the information it had been given was incorrect, it voided Mr Fs 
policies from inception.
Mr F says Tesco knew about the claim as it was made through Tesco Bank on a 
previous policy.
On 6 August 2018, Mr F applied for Tesco Bank Insurance with Tesco Underwriting 
as the Insurer. The policy was due to start on 27 August 2018.
On 14 August 2018, Mr F made a subsidence claim. Tesco Underwriting says it was 
never made aware of the claim and if it had been it wouldnt have offered the policy.
Mr F says he started the claim with Tesco Bank on 14 August 2018. Tesco Bank said 
it wasnt made aware of the claim until 21 August 2018, so Mr F was likely speaking 
directly to the previous insurer.
Tesco Bank has said it didnt pass on the claim information to Tesco Underwriting as 
they dont link their policies if they are with different insurers.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Tesco Bank were aware of the claim 
before the policy started and as it arranged and administered the 2018 policy on 
behalf the insurer, any mistakes made by the bank would be the responsibility of the 
insurer. She felt the bank had made the mistake of not passing the information on to 
the underwriters of the new policy. She therefore didnt think Mr F had made any 
misrepresentation. She also said Mr F hadnt made a qualifying misrepresentation at 
either of the renewals as she didnt think the renewal documents were clear enough.
Tesco Underwriting disagree, so the complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The relevant law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). Under this legislation a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
In determining whether Mr F took reasonable care the relevant law says that should be 
determined in the light of all the circumstances. And it provides examples of things that may 
need to be taken into account; what was asked, what information/warnings were given about 
giving correct information, anything said about before the policy starts.
From what Ive seen Mr F set up his policy with Tesco Underwriting via a comparison 
website on or around the 6 August 2018 and the policy was due to start on the 27 August. 
Although I dont have the questions asked, I can see from the Statement of Fact that Mr F 
answered yes to the building is free from signs of and has never been damaged by 
subsidence, heave, landslip, tree root damage and neighbouring subsidence. And he also 
declared a previous claim for storm damage. It isnt in dispute that Mr F provided the correct 
information at inception. However, within eight days of taking this policy out Mr F made a 
claim for subsidence on his 2017/2018 policy that was branded as Tesco Bank but was 
underwritten by a different insurer.
Tesco Underwriting says that Mr F had a duty to update it of information changes after 
inception and that includes disclosure of claims and incidents. 
Ive therefore looked at the welcome documents sent to Mr F dated 6 August 2018. And 
under the important notes that is bolded in the documents Tesco advise that the 
policyholder must tell Tesco Bank immediately if any of the information is incorrect, is 
missing, has changed or will change. It explains that it will then advise the policyholder if any 
adjustment is required to the premium or any additional terms. It also goes on the explain the 
policyholders legal obligation to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Im 
satisfied that Mr Fs subsidence claim was a change and he shouldve informed Tesco Bank 
immediately.
Mr F says he told Tesco Bank about the cracks on the 14 August and Tescos arranged for 
this to be inspected a few weeks later. Tesco Bank has said it was made aware of the claim 
on 21 August by way of the previous insurer and not by Mr F. Tesco Bank says it doesnt 
pass on claims information if the policies are underwritten by different insurers and its 
systems dont have the functionality to link policies. I can understand why Mr F mayve 
presumed that he was talking to Tesco Bank when making the claim, but it looks like he was 
speaking directly with the insurer. And It would be the responsibility of the insurer to manage 
the claim and arrange for inspections and repairs not Tesco Bank. Tesco Bank is an
intermediary and its policies are not linked, so we wouldnt expect it to pass this information
on regarding a policy underwritten by another insurer.
However, even if I accept that Mr F thought he had informed Tesco Bank and therefore 
Tesco Underwriting of the subsidence claim he shouldve been aware that the claim hadnt 
been disclosed when he renewed his policy in 2019 and 2020. I say this because Ive looked 
at the questions asked on the Statement of Facts provided on both renewal documents. It 
asks the following question; 6. You or any person usually living with you has (a) made any 
claim within the last 3 years in connection with your home insurance. On both renewals this 
has been answered as yes which is correct. But on the same page it says; If Yes to either 6 a, b or c please refer to additional information at the end of this document. And it is here 
that the document lists any claims. The only claim showing on both renewals is for storm 
damage in October 2017.- which is incorrect.
I disagree with our investigator that this is unclear. The policyholder has a duty to read and 
check all the information supplied is correct. And even if Mr F assumed that his insurer knew 
about the subsidence claim, he has a duty to check his assumption is correct. I also note 
that under 3c) the building is free from signs of and has never been damaged by 
subsidence, heave, landslip, tree root damage and neighbouring subsidence. This is 
answered as Yes which is also incorrect.
Im therefore persuaded that this is a qualifying misrepresentation as the onus is upon the 
policyholder to ensure their policy information is correct. Tesco Underwriting has shown me 
if it had known about the subsidence at inception it wouldnt have offered cover. I agree that 
Mr F hasnt deliberately misrepresented, but it was careless, and it was fair for Tesco 
Underwriting to avoid the policies and return the premiums, I dont intend to ask it to do 
anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco Underwriting accepted my provisional decision. Mr F didnt respond. As I have no 
further information to consider, Im satisfied my provisional decision detailing my intention to 
not uphold the complaint is a fair and reasonable and I wont be asking Tesco Underwriting 
Limited to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman