DRN-2825757
The complaint
Mr A has complained that ZAVAROVALNICA SAVA, D.D. (ZS) unfairly declined a claim on 
his motor insurance policy then cancelled it as if it hadn't existed (known as voidance).
Mr As complaint is about underwriting decisions concerning the performance of his contract 
(his policy). Most notably about whether to pay his claim or void his policy. Those are things 
which ZS as the policy underwriter remains responsible for even if its agents take those 
actions on its behalf. So reference in this decision to ZS includes its agents which administer 
the policy and in whose name the policy is branded.  
What happened
Mr A bought a ZS policy through a comparison site. He was later involved in an accident and 
claimed on his policy. 
While looking into his claim ZS told Mr A it had learned about three accidents hed been 
involved in, which he hadn't declared when applying for the policy. It said Mr A had only told 
it about one previous accident. It said that if hed told it about all of his accidents then it 
wouldn't have offered him cover. So it said it was cancelling the policy and treating it as void. 
So it wouldn't pay his claim. It returned the premium payments Mr A had made up to that 
point of almost £300.
Mr A brought his complaint about ZS to us. One of our investigators looked into it. While she 
was doing so, ZS acknowledged some delays handling the claim initially, particularly when 
looking into an issue with Mr As private number plate. It told us it would offer Mr A £300 by 
way of compensation for that. Our investigator thought that ZS voided the policy fairly and 
that its offer of compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my findings don't depart from our investigator's recommendation. 
In bringing this complaint Mr A has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything thats on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each and 
every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of 
the complaint that Mr A put to ZS and which it has previously addressed. Ill add that, while 
weve been considering Mr As complaint, he raised additional concerns. For example, hes 
said that hes out of pocket because of issues to do with paying for a hire a car, storage and 
recovery charges. But as those aren't points which ZS addressed in its response to Mr As 
complaint I don't think it would be appropriate for me to comment on those matters here. 
Did Mr A make a mistake when applying for the policy?
Mr A applied for the policy through a comparison website. The comparison site asked him if 
hed had any motor accidents or claims in the last five years. I think thats a clear question. 
So in order for Mr A to answer that question accurately he needed to give the details of the 
four accident/claims hed been involved in in the previous five years. But he didn't do that.
Mr A gave the details of the most recent incident hed been involved in. But he didn't enter 
any details of the earlier incidents. As a result the quotes he was provided with after 
completing the application process, including a quote from ZS, were based on one accident 
rather than the four Mr Z had been involved in. 
In correspondence with us Mr A said the comparison site stores previously entered 
information from quotes hed run in earlier years. So he thought he was only required to 
enter the most recent accident. That would explain why Mr A only input the most recent 
claim, rather than all four incidents. But I don't think there's any information on the 
comparison site that told Mr A he only needed to enter the most recent claim. The question 
itself certainly didnt make any allowance for that.
Whilst Im satisfied that the question as its written is clear, I'm aware that the comparison 
site also gives advice on how consumers should answer that question. It does so by 
providing extra information in a box which comes up if the consumer clicks on the 
information button (which looks like a question mark) next to the question. If Mr A had 
clicked on that he would have seen a box which advised him that he would need to give 
details of any incidents, accidents, losses, thefts or claims in the last five years. The 
comparison site doesn't say anywhere that Mr A only needed to enter the most recent 
incident details. So, I don't think Mr A entered all the information that he should have done. 
I don't think that anyone other than Mr A was responsible for the detail he gave, or chose not 
to give, when answering the question. It follows that I don't think Mr A took reasonable care 
to make sure he answered the question about accidents or losses accurately. 
As a result I think Mr A did make a mistake when applying for the policy. And where a 
consumer hasn't taken reasonable care to answer an insurers question correctly, completely 
and to the best of their knowledge, that mistake is known in the insurance industry as a 
misrepresentation. And, as I don't think Mr A took reasonable care to answer the question 
about the accidents and claims, I think he made a misrepresentation.
Was it fair for ZS to void Mr As policy?
ZS has shown us some information about its underwriting criteria, which are the rules it 
follows when deciding whether to offer someone a policy or not. And that information 
confirms it wouldn't have offered Mr A a policy at all if hed entered all the details of the 
accidents he'd been involved in on the comparison site. That is, if Mr A had input the details 
of all four claims hed been involved in, ZS wouldn't ever have provided Mr A a quote from 
which he could buy a policy. But because of Mr As misrepresentation ZS offered him a 
policy which he bought.
There's a specific law that applies in a situation like this called the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). That sets out what an insurer may do 
where a consumers made a misrepresentation. And in circumstances where the insurer 
wouldn't have offered the policy but for that misrepresentation then CIDRA allows it to void it 
and refuse to pay any claim. And, as I've said above, if Mr A hadn't made a 
misrepresentation then ZS wouldn't have offered him a policy. In those circumstances 
CIDRA allows ZS to refuse Mr As claim and void his policy. That's what it did.I understand that Mr A didn't intend to make a misrepresentation and as such he thinks his 
mistake was innocent. But CIDRA doesn't categorise a misrepresentation as being 
innocent. It only has two categories:
deliberate or reckless;
careless.
So, as Mr A didn't deliberately or recklessly make a misrepresentation, his mistake is 
deemed as being careless under CIDRA. But the remedy for ZS (except for whether or not to 
return a premium) under CIDRA remains the same. That is, as ZS wouldn't have offered 
Mr A a policy at all, then  because Mr A made a careless misrepresentation  CIDRA 
allows ZS to void his policy. That's what it did and it returned his policy premium to him. 
I think it did so fairly. 
Im aware that it took ZS some weeks to establish that Mr A had made a misrepresentation. 
But, I don't think ZS delays in dealing with the claim means that it wasn't fair for it to apply 
the remedy CIDRA allows it and to void the policy. Further, ZS has now acknowledged that it 
did unreasonably delay processing Mr As claim. And its offered him £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he experienced because of that acknowledged delay. I think 
thats a reasonable offer in the circumstances. So I'm not going to instruct ZS to take any 
other action. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think it's fair and reasonable for ZAVAROVALNICA SAVA, 
D.D to pay Mr A £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him for 
its acknowledged delay in handling his claim. I make no other award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman