DRN-3973266
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the requirements The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited trading as Scottish Provident have asked for in order to reinstate their life insurance 
policy.
What happened
Royal London didnt receive a monthly premium for the policy in February 2022 because 
Mr and Mrs L had cancelled the direct debit. They wrote two letters to Mr and Mrs L in 
March 2022 asking for payment and again in April 2022 saying the policy had been 
cancelled due to non-payment of the premiums.
Mr and Mrs L complained saying they had only received the first letter but not the other two. 
Royal London agreed to reinstate the policy if Mr and Mrs L completed an updated health 
questionnaire and made up the missed premiums. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt think they should have to complete the health questionnaire so brought 
their complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought the 
letters were correctly addressed and had been sent. They also said that asking Mr and Mrs L 
to complete a health questionnaire was a reasonable underwriting requirement to reinstate 
the policy. 
In response Mr and Mrs L said they didnt think the second two letters had been sent. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how 
strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure Mr and Mrs L that Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive 
summarised some of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr and Mrs L say they cancelled the direct debit due to some unexpected expenses. They 
say they had done this before so understood the process of Royal London sending two 
letters with arrangements to catch up the premiums. 
Royal London sent Mr and Mrs L a letter on 2 March 2022 saying that a premium had been 
missed. Mr and Mrs L say they received this letter. 
A second letter was sent on 15 March 2022 saying that Mr and Mrs L had to make contact 
by 27 March 2022 and make a payment agreement or the cover would stop. Contact wasnt 
made with Royal London so the policy was cancelled which was confirmed in a further letter 
dated 11 April 2022. 
On 12 April 2022 Mr and Mrs L contacted Royal London to enquire after the policy saying 
they hadnt received any letter after the first one. Royal London explained that the policy had 
now been cancelled. They agreed to reinstate the policy if Mr and Mrs L made up the missed 
payments and completed an updated health questionnaire. Mr and Mrs L said they shouldnt 
have to do this as they didnt receive the letters and also due to a change in health 
circumstances.
Looking at the evidence provided by Royal London Im persuaded the letters were sent and 
they were correctly addressed in the same way as the first letter. I dont know why they 
werent received as Mr and Mrs L say, but by sending the letters Royal London fulfilled their 
obligations.
Having looked at the letters I think they make clear the consequences of non-payment and 
provide adequate contact information. 
Im also satisfied that the policy was cancelled in line with the terms and conditions and as 
the letter of 15 March 2022 said it would be.
Asking a policy holder to complete an updated health questionnaire is quite usual when 
reinstating a policy in these types of circumstances. So I think this is a reasonable request 
from Royal London.
Moving forward Royal London say they will consider a questionnaire taking into account any 
health changes since the last premium was paid. They also say they will consider a 
repayment plan for the outstanding premiums usually over a six-month period. Mr and Mrs L 
should contact Royal London if they would like to discuss this. Any discussion, and any 
outcome of that discussion, about the reinstatement of the policy doesnt form part of this 
decision as this option has always been available. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Royal London treated 
Mr and Mrs L fairly and reasonably when cancelling the policy so I wont be asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman