DRN-2452181
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) declined his request to reimburse
transactions on his account, he said he didnt make.
To put things right, Mr G wants Santander to refund the disputed transactions. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr G went on holiday to Poland with a small group of friends. On his first 
day there, he went to a night club where he says he was drugged and had £1,381.74 stolen 
from his account.
Mr G says he paid for a round of drinks when he entered the club. He thought he was paying
194.40 Zloty (which equates to approximately £40) but it later transpired he had paid
£194.40. Mr G accepts that he authorised that payment, but says didnt authorise any further
payments. It was only when he checked his balance the following day that he realised the
money had been taken from his account.
Mr G raised a claim with Santander for reimbursement. Santander investigated, but said it
wouldnt refund Mr G. It said it had no evidence that Mr Gs card had been used for any
unauthorised transactions, commented that Mr G still had possession of the card, and said
his card chip and PIN had been used.
Mr G rejected Santanders findings and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator
looked at the complaint but didnt feel Santander had acted unfairly in declining Mr Gs claim.
She thought it was more likely than not that Mr G had authorised the transactions himself.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2020. In it, I said:
This is a finely balanced case. In order to uphold it I have to be persuaded that, on balance,
it is more likely than not that Mr G didnt authorise the transactions in question. Santander
says Mr G had his card with him at the end of the night, and that the transactions were
authorised using chip and PIN. The implication of which is that Mr G must have authorised
the transactions himself.
But Im not persuaded thats necessarily the case. Mr G accepts that the first transaction in
the nightclub was made by him. And hes told our Service he didnt shield his PIN when he
entered it into the card reader. So, I accept its possible, and given what I will say below
about the events that followed, even likely that Mr Gs PIN was compromised at that point.
Mr G says he thinks he was drugged at the club and that his card was stolen to make the
transactions, and then replaced. Having researched the club in question, I see there are a
number of similar reports from other patrons. And in my view, the spending pattern on Mr
Gs account is unusual for a normal customer.
Soon after the first transaction (that Mr G does not dispute), payments of £367.90 and
£610.39 left his account. Shortly after that, there were transactions of £314.57 and £418.07
that were declined due to insufficient funds in Mr Gs account. At that point, Santander sent
two text messages to Mr Gs phone in order to verify the transactions.
Santander says the fact that it received replies to those messages, confirming the payments
were genuine shows that Mr G authorised the transactions. And I understand its reasoning,
given Mr G said he had his card on him at the end of the night. But because of the numerous
reports of drugging at this particular nightclub, Im satisfied that Mr Gs card was more likely
than not taken from him and returned at the end of the evening. And I dont think the fact that
he had his phone and card the following day is, in this particular case, an indication that he
had control of his card all night.
Mr G has told us that his mobile phone wasnt locked so it would have been easy for the staff
at the club to access his phone. And in a location where this kind of fraud seems prolific, it is
entirely understandable that the staff would know to check for text message from a bank
when a transaction is declined.
Immediately after the text messages were sent, approving the transactions, a further
payment of £614.57 was declined due to insufficient funds, before a payment of £271.75
was processed, followed by two consecutive failed ATM withdrawals of £228.98 and £138.92
at an ATM within 500 yards of the nightclub.
At this point, over £1,000 had left Mr Gs account and a further £2,000 of transactions were
attempted. Again, I accept it is entirely possible that Mr G was himself seeking to make the
payments himself and so approved those transactions himself. But I consider the spending
pattern to be so unusual that it doesnt make sense in the context of the night out Mr G has
described, or in all of the circumstances of this particular complaint.
Ive also considered the possibility that Mr G was either confused by the currency or
voluntarily intoxicated to the extent that he voluntarily carried out these transactions, and
simply regretted doing so the following day. But I dont think thats a likely explanation of
what happened.
Mr G had only been at the club for an hour (after buying the first round of drinks) when
£2,000 of transactions were attempted. Half of that successful and the other half leading to
text message being sent to Mr Gs mobile phone. And Mr G had withdrawn £229 in cash less
than an hour before arriving in the club. Mr Gs account balance was not so high that it could
accommodate such a spending spree, and Im satisfied he would have been aware of that.
In light of the above, Im not persuaded Mr G would have been so intoxicated or so confused
by the exchange rate that he would have attempted numerous, consecutive transactions for
such high amounts. By his own admission, Mr G says he accidentally paid £194.40 for the
first round of drinks, thinking he was paying 194.40 Zloty. So there is evidence of confusion. 
But if I were to accept he retained possession of his phone for the duration of the evening, it
is my opinion that he would likely have noticed something was amiss when Santanders
messages came through. Or when further transactions were declined.
I accept this is not a clear-cut case and Santander has raised a number of points that could
suggest Mr G authorised the transactions himself. And I would stress that I am considering
the particular circumstances of this case. Were any of the circumstances different, I might
not have reached the same conclusion.
But, on balance and for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that its more likely than
not Mr G didnt authorise the transactions himself. That being the case, Im minded to tellSantander to refund the transactions in question.
I asked Mr G and Santander to provide any further evidence or submissions by 21 
December 2020. Mr G had nothing further to add and Santander accepted my provisional 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither Santander nor Mr G had anything further to add, my findings about this 
complaint havent changed. It follows that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Santander UK PLC must pay Mr G 
£1,381.74.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman