DRN-3479536
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not do more to help him when he had no access 
to his funds.  
What happened
Mr A has a savings account with HSBC, which previously had a debit card attached to it. The 
debit card facility was removed in November 2020. A few months later he found it more 
difficult to visit a branch, which meant at times he was unable to access his funds. And some 
branches began to reduce their opening hours.
He says he contacted HSBC about this issue, but they did not provide him with a meaningful 
response or help him access his funds. Eventually, he opened a new bank account and was 
able to transfer his wages to the new account consistently. But he is unhappy that HSBC did 
not assist him when he asked for help, so he raised a complaint about this.
HSBC issued a final response letter in which it explained that the opening hours for its 
branches is accessible on its website. And if Mr A needed to access funds, he was able to 
make transfers via online, mobile or telephone banking. It explained that his online banking 
had been temporarily suspended and did acknowledge that he had experienced some 
inconvenience, so offered him £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr A referred the complaint to our service and an Investigator looked over the evidence. 
They felt that Mr A had been given fair warning that his debit card was being removed from 
the account, so could have found alternative ways to bank when this became an issue for 
him. They also said that Mr A had been able to make some transfers via telephone banking 
in May 2021, so this was a viable method of banking for him. And it was unclear if Mr As 
online banking was blocked during this time; this could be because Mr A used the incorrect 
details too many times. Finally, they said that while the complaint did take some time to be 
looked at, the investigation was carried out within the required eight weeks. Overall, they did 
not feel HSBC had acted unreasonably. 
Mr A disagreed with this. He said that he had asked for help, but HSBC did not respond with 
anything meaningful. And prior to this incident, he had not used telephone banking for many 
years. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that HSBC could have responded to Mr As requests sooner, but I 
dont think it needs to take any action to remedy the complaint. Ill explain why. 
The account in question is a savings account, so does not have all the features of a current 
account. I can see that HSBC made the decision to remove the debit card facility in 
November 2020 and gave Mr A 60 days warning that this would be happening. I think this is 
a fair amount of time to give Mr A as a warning that his account was about to change and is 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. These state that they need to give two 
months notice for this type of change, which they did. And I think HSBC therefore gave Mr A 
enough time to make alternative banking arrangements if the removal of the debit card 
facility would be detrimental to him. 
Mr A was able to effectively manage his finances without the debit card facility for some time 
by visiting a branch to carry out transfers and pay bills. However, around April/May 2021 his 
circumstances changed, meaning he was less able to visit a branch. And his local branch 
began to operate a more reduced timetable for its opening hours. Firstly, Im not able to 
compel a business to change how it operates and I wont comment on the opening hours 
HSBC chooses to have in its branches. I can see this information is available on their 
website and outside their branches which I think is reasonable. And I cant hold HSBC 
responsible for Mr As circumstances changing which caused him difficulties getting into a 
branch to carry out his banking needs.
That being said, I can see that Mr A asked HSBC for assistance, and Ive seen an e-mail 
from him to HSBC which was sent in early May 2021. In this, he asks how to access his 
account and says he has been unable to attend a branch. Mr A explains the consequences 
of this in that he may not be able to attend work due to a lack of funds. I cant see that HSBC 
provided a meaningful response until 25 June when it issued a final response letter to Mr A. 
Ive thought about this and I do think that HSBC could have taken steps to contact Mr A and 
assist him earlier than they did. Ive the gone on to consider if any earlier contact would have 
changed Mr As circumstances.
Mr A signed up to online banking on 14 May and mobile banking on 15 May. Hes said that 
he had some issues with mobile banking and could not get it to work to his satisfaction. I can 
see that HSBC mentioned in the final response letter that his online banking had been 
temporarily suspended and explained how to unsuspend it. Ive been provided with no 
further clarification on why his account was suspended, though its been assumed this was 
due to Mr A inputting the incorrect log in details too many times, which does seem likely in 
the circumstances. On balance, theres no indication there has been a bank error that has 
caused issues with Mr As online banking. 
Mr A was eventually able to consistently use telephone banking to make transfers to his new 
account. But this did take some trial and error as Mr A had to remember his verification 
details. This is understandable considering he has said he had not used his telephone 
banking for some time. I can see that he was first able to make a telephone banking transfer 
on 22 May.
I have to consider what HSBC would have said if theyd responded to Mr As communication 
earlier. On balance, I think its likely they would have echoed the later contents of the final 
response letter sent on 25 June. In this, they direct Mr A to use telephone, online and mobile 
banking in order to carry out transfers if he is unable to visit a branch. 
Had HSBC told Mr A this this earlier, I dont think this would have meaningfully changed the 
situation he was in. I say this because he always had access to his telephone banking, which is what he eventually used to manage his account. Though I do appreciate he had to 
recall his verification details. So I cant agree that the delay in HSBC replying to Mr A has 
caused him additional distress or inconvenience. I can see that HSBC have offered Mr A 
£100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill and I think this is fair in the circumstances. And 
I dont think that it needs to take further steps to remedy the complaint.  
My final decision
The £100 already offered to Mr A is fair in the circumstances and I now direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to pay this if it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman