DRN-3590369
The complaint
Mr R questioned whether the advice given and the arrangements made by AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited (AFH), to switch his personal pensions with Royal London (RL) 
into a James Hay Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), using AFHs discretionary 
intermediary service (DIS) and resulting investments, was suitable. 
What happened
Mr R had been a client of AFH for several years. It provided him with advice to take out his 
original RL plans. He says that during an annual review in 2017 discussion turned to market 
uncertainty and the Trump bump.
Mr R told us that AFH said he might be better off with up to the minute changes to his 
investments that responded to market conditions. He says he was told about services which 
could provide him with more active management of his pension provision. But he says he 
hadnt been looking to move until AFH made the suggestion.
Between January and June 2017, AFH gathered information about his objectives, 
circumstances and attitude to risk.
Mr Rs objectives were recorded in the following terms:
-You plan to fully retire by your 62nd birthday at which point [Mrs R] will have access 
to her final salary pension scheme and will fully retire.
-You require sufficient income to maintain your lifestyle and to pay for holidays.
-You require a retirement income of around £21,600 in order to maintain your 
lifestyle and your secure income in retirement is already projected to meet this 
need.
-You have two Royal London personal pension arrangements with varying contract 
terms and investment approaches. You would like to consolidate these funds with 
a view to simplifying your retirement planning.
-You requested a review of your existing Royal London retirement plans to 
establish whether they remain suitable for your purposes in terms of charges, 
investment choice and terms.
-You would like your retirement plans to be cost effective and actively managed.
-You would like the options to be able to withdraw the lump sums and income 
available from your pensions flexibly at retirement
-Your investment priority is to seek to grow your pension capital but within a largely 
capital preservation approach.
-It is important to you that improved risk oversight is applied to your pension 
investment portfolio. 
-You intend to delegate decision-making to discretionary managers, rather than 
retaining responsibility for investment decisions yourself.
AFH produced a suitability report for Mr R dated 9 June 2017. In summary it 
recommended he should:
- Switch his existing RL personal pensions into a James Hay SIPP.
- Invest the funds in line with his assessed balanced attitude to risk through its 
DIS arrangement.
Mr R accepted AFHs recommendations and the switch went ahead, with about £288,600 
moving from his RL plans into his new SIPP in August 2017. Charges for the initial advice 
were taken from his pot, as were fees for the ongoing arrangements.
In June 2020, Mr R raised concerns with AFH about the performance of his new pension 
arrangements, which he said when compared to his RL plans, and taking into account the 
ongoing contributions hed made, had seen an erosion of around £37,000 in his capital.
AFH issued its final response to Mr R on 31 July 2020. It said his portfolio had been 
managed according to his assessed attitude to risk. And that he was given appropriate 
warnings that his future returns might not be greater than those achieved from his RL 
policies. It said hed acknowledged the full advice and information provided.
The Investigator reviewed Mr Rs complaint and upheld it. He had concerns about the 
advice AFH provided, in particular in relation to matters such as costs of the new 
arrangement; the risk appetite assessment; and fund management arrangement.
AFH disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. It said thered been a 
realistic chance Mr R would be better off with his new pension arrangement. It disputed 
the investment approach wasnt aligned to Mr Rs attitude to risk. And it considered that a 
DIS wasnt just for experienced clients. It concluded in the following terms:
In summary we would like to challenge the initial decision made by the FOS on the basis 
that the clients complaint is solely based on performance of the new plan compared to the 
old plan. There is no indication from our files that the client was led to believe that the new 
plan was guaranteed to perform better than the existing plan and the reasons for the 
recommendation have been clearly outlined both in the Financial Planning Report and the 
Replacement Contract Pro-forma. The costs for recommending a switch have been clearly 
disclosed to the client, including the fact that additional growth would be required on the 
new plan to provide a similar return to the existing plan at the potential vesting date.
Our file further confirms that the reasons for the switch have not been based on 
performance guarantees, nor do they relate primarily to weak drivers such as 
consolidation. The client has in this instance, taken exception at the fact that his existing 
plan would have performed better than his new plan, but we do not believe that this 
means the advice was flawed. In the same way, we would ask the question whether the 
client would have claimed that the advice was flawed, had his new plan outperformed the 
existing plan?
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Rs complaint was passed to 
me to review the case afresh. This is the final part of our process. I issued my provisional 
decision in June. Mr R provided some further comments which Ive considered. AFH didnt 
provide any new evidence or arguments. Overall, theres no compelling reason for me to 
depart from my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
AFH says that this Service would be setting a precedent if it upheld Mr Rs complaint, 
which it says is about the investment performance of his plan. So, Ill start by setting out 
our established approach in cases such as this.
This Service has an inquisitorial remit to identify the root cause of any complaint. The 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) should make rules for us, which mean that we shouldn't look at a complaint if a 
consumer hasnt communicated its 'substance' to the business.
So, its not about the way Mr R has expressed his complaint but about what the crux or 
substance of his concern is really about. The DISP rules required AFH to look fairly at the 
'subject matter', get more information when it needed to and be both thorough and 
impartial. The rules also stress it had to look at all the evidence, and the specific 
circumstances of his complaint. This Service must also think about what lies at the heart of 
a complaint and look at the whole picture.
In making his complaint to AFH, Mr R concluded in the following terms:
It is not for me to say whether this serious underperformance is the result of bad advice, 
poor fund management or both, but when you take professional advice to use professional 
fund management it is fair to expect commensurate professional performance.
In terms of the outcome of this complaint, my expectation is that reparations are made to 
at least cover these losses, given that the whole idea as presented to me was to be able to 
improve on my existing providers performance.
Its clear that Mr Rs complaint touches on the potential for something to have gone wrong 
as a result of the advice process. And I dont think the Investigator wouldve been 
considering his concerns properly if he hadnt looked at matters related to this.
So, Im satisfied that I can look at the issue of the suitability of the advice provided by AFH to 
Mr R. Im also satisfied its had an opportunity to fully respond to these matters.
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Rs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by AFH for Mr R. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like AFH. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment 
business carried on for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business 
includes arranging (bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at 
their circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those 
wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the 
switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Rs best interests to make 
the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between his former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted 
four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in 
place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about 
SIPPs. For example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, 
then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be 
held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as 
it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Further, when considering the use of a discretionary fund management (DFM) 
arrangement, the regulator has made clear that amongst other matters, firms need to take 
into account issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a 
DFM  ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger 
funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of 
the underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs cost of the arrangement were 
actually explained to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) 
understand.
AFH says its DIS is not a bespoke Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service. It said:
..it is a collective arrangement based on a global model portfolio which applies to all clients 
on this service (in line with their attitude to risk). The difference between this service and a 
traditional advisory portfolio management service is the ability for the Portfolio Manager to 
have discretion to rebalance without client authority being required. This allows the portfolio 
to be actively managed on an ongoing basis, as and when the Portfolio Manager considers 
it appropriate.
I think the matters the FCA raised in relation to DFMs remain largely pertinent to AFHs 
DIS proposition.
Did AFH meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr R?
There are several documents relating to AFHs transaction with Mr R that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find, risk appetite questionnaire, pension 
replacement contract form and the suitability report.
I dont think AFH met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
AFH recorded that Mr R was 58 at the time of the advice. He was married and there were 
no dependents. He was the director of his own business, with an income of £40,000 in 
earnings and dividends. His wife earned £15,000 a year and received rental income of 
around £19,500. The fact-find suggests a total household monthly expenditure of £1,300 a 
month, of which £1,000 was on essentials. These figures excluded holidays. Both Mr and 
Mrs R were basic rate tax-payers.
No liabilities were recorded for Mr and Mrs R. They owned their home, which was said to 
be worth £350,000. They had another property worth £50,000. They had around £80,000 
in savings and investments. Mr R was said to have limited experience of investment 
matters and had relied on advice from financial advisers in the past.Mr R had a defined benefit (DB) pension which would provide an income in retirement at 
65, at the time this was valued as worth £10,000 a year. In addition, he had two RL 
personal pension plans with a transfer value of around £289,000. He wanted to continue 
making pension contributions of around £600 per month from his company. He was entitled 
to a state pension from the age of 66.
Mrs R was also a deferred member of a DB scheme with a projected annual income value 
at the time of around £5,000. She also made additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) via 
an Equitable Life policy, which was valued at £19,000. She would also be receiving a 
contribution of £600 a month from the company which she was a director of. She was 
entitled to a state pension when she reached 66.
I find that there are some problems with AFHs basic proposition. In particular around Mr 
Rs retirement age, which is now a matter of contention between the parties. Mr R says he 
made it clear he wouldnt be working up to the age of 65 in any circumstances. And AFH 
says that he signed a fact-find to say that was his expected retirement horizon.
Ive reviewed the suitability report AFH produced, it said Mr R planned to retire when 
he reached 62. The earlier fact-find actually said the latest he would retire was 65.
I tend to agree with AFH when it responded to the Investigators view in the following terms:
Whilst it is regrettable that this contradiction has occurred, on the balance of probability, 
retirement at age 62, may have been desired by the client but not an absolute. It must also 
be noted that whilst the client may have had plans to retire at 62, it is unlikely he would 
require access to all of his pension funds at that time.
This is an important matter because, as AFH acknowledged (bolding is my emphasis):
I note that the performance issues raised by the client relate to what is in effect a term (at 
that time) of approximately three years. Had we been looking at a performance period 
of this short a length, this recommendation would not have gone ahead. It was 
expected that the client would hold the investment to at least their selected retirement 
age.
A supplementary retirement options questionnaire was used by AFH to capture information 
about what appears to be Mr and Mrs Rs required income in retirement. This was said to 
be £1,800 a month, of which £800 would be discretionary spending. This fits with what it 
said in the suitability report:
You require a retirement income of around £21,600 in order to maintain your lifestyle
AFH went on to note:
and your secure income in retirement is already projected to meet this need.
Given Mr Rs existing provision wouldve already met his retirement requirements, 
any advice to switch his funds needed to be compelling.
I think these matters wouldve been important for Mr R to understand to enable him to 
make an informed decision about what to do with his RL personal pensions.
AFH was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr R about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over 
many years are to provide for a retirement income.AFH recommended Mr R switch his RL pensions into a James Hay SIPP, using its own 
DIS arrangement and to invest in line with his assessed attitude to risk. I find there are 
several further problems with its advice.
Charges
AFH charged Mr R 2% of the transfer value of his funds for its initial advice. That was 
estimated in the suitability report as about £5,200.
AFH noted the ongoing fees Mr R incurred for his existing RL pensions was 0.5% of the 
fund value. It informed him the new arrangements would cost him 1.94%. This included 1% 
for the discretionary investment service it was providing, fund management fees of 0.86% 
and annual policy charges of around 0.08%. It said the increase of nearly 300% was 
justified because he didnt have a coherent investment strategy and needed a properly 
structured portfolio.
AFH went on to say:
We cannot of course guarantee that you will be better off by effecting this transaction, as 
it will be the combination of investment returns achieved as well as the effective fund 
management charges applied that will ultimately determine the size of your fund at 
retirement. However, as agreed, one of the most important elements of retirement 
planning is the investment of the underlying funds and the proposed ongoing monitoring 
of your plan that will be done in an effort to maximise the growth potential, and ensure that 
the policy is always managed in accordance with your objectives and attitude to risk.
AFH didnt set out in its suitability report any analysis showing the performance of Mr Rs 
existing personal pensions. It also failed to provide any commentary about the portfolio it 
was recommending for him. I think this is a weakness. It did tell him that in order to 
exceed the drag of increased costs, based on a future projected growth rate of 2.4%, his 
new arrangement would need to achieve additional growth above his existing RL pension 
plans of about 1.4% each year.
Although past performance doesnt provide any guarantee it wouldve helped to have 
contextualised what was being recommended. What was the prospect of meeting or 
exceeding the performance of his existing plans? After all, one of his priorities was said to 
be capital growth.
It wasnt for Mr R to be the judge of the prospects for investment returns under 
AFHs management  it needed to provide its analysis.
AFH hasnt done enough to satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mr R to be better off 
as a result of its recommendations, given the fees and charges he was incurring and the 
nature of the investment strategy it was recommending.
Risk
Mr R completed a risk appetite assessment. AFH said he was a balanced investor (three out 
of five on the scale it used). It went on to describe its investment proposition in the following 
terms:
This portfolio is designed to strike a balance between long-term capital protection and 
exposure to assets that have the potential to offer real rates of return. The portfolio is 
always likely to have a minimum exposure to equities, irrespective of market conditions. 
Investment into equities will be limited to 70% of the portfolio. Over the long-term, this portfolio should offer reasonable protection against the impact of inflation on your 
purchasing power.
Id start by noting that from the available evidence, Mr Rs RL personal pensions appear 
to have been invested in a broadly similar manner to what was being proposed. With 75% 
equities he appears to have been slightly more exposed but also had a mix of fixed 
interest and property funds. So, AFH wasnt proposing a substantial change of investment 
risk.
I think the assessment AFH conducted of Mr Rs risk appetite was a reasonable 
starting point. Mr R wasnt a novice in investment matters and he understood that to 
gain better returns he had to take some risks. He wanted to take some risk.
Mr R wasnt investing all his pension assets. His deferred DB scheme membership would 
remain intact. And it seems his wife had some pension provision as well. So, I also think 
he had some capacity for loss given his overall financial circumstances.
On the other hand, theres nothing to suggest Mr R was particularly knowledgeable about 
investment and pension matters. Of course, thats why he sought professional advice 
from AFH. I note the bulk of his responses to the risk questionnaire were down the 
middle. And his investment horizon wasnt clear, at least for part of his funds, given what 
was recorded about his desire to retire at the age of 62.
I note that on the pension replacement form the adviser made the following 
observation about his existing RL personal pension plans:
In order to attempt to address your risk needs in the existing plan, I would recommend a 
lower-risk asset allocation. This would compensate somewhat for the lack of suitable 
management oversight of risk, but it would almost certainly provide reduced returns, if 
you remained with the current provider.
AFH seemed to imply Mr Rs existing portfolio of holdings with RL was above his risk 
appetite. It provided a detailed breakdown of the sort of holdings that his SIPP would 
contain, as it was required to do. The portfolio wasnt dissimilar in terms of exposure to 
risk. But AFH suggested the main difference was that its active management of his 
underlying asset allocation would ensure it always matched his attitude to risk, and that 
this was the critical element to drive performance of his pension funds.
Im not convinced by the case AFH was making to Mr R. It didnt provide any analysis of 
its case in the suitability report. Its argument doesnt appear compelling or coherent. The 
new arrangements would be costing him significantly more. But it didnt show him that its 
approach had a reasonable prospect of matching his existing arrangement, let alone 
generate better performance.
I note that there was no cost to switch funds within Mr Rs RL pensions. Both provided a 
choice of 50 funds, so there was an opportunity to re-align his exposure across different 
asset groups. AFH said this wasnt a suitable option for him mainly because he was said 
to be adamant that he wanted a discretionary management service. Ill now turn to this 
matter.
Ongoing fund management
I note AFH indicated that either with his existing plan or by transferring to an alternative with 
RL, he could have access to five alternative discretionary service providers. It concluded that 
none of the available firms would be suitable for his specific objectives, saying:it is the risk-management, capital preservation and financial planning aspects of your 
investment service that are far more important for you and these are specifically targeted in 
the AFH [DIS].
I think AFH was saying its offer combined a number of services rolled into one, which wasnt 
available from the other DFM providers. But it wasnt clear and Im not persuaded Mr R 
wouldve understood what it was driving at.
AFH said of its DIS:
[our] approach to portfolio management is very different to normal discretionary wealth 
managers. As an Independent Financial Advisory Practice we are very much more 
concerned that our clients meet their financial planning objectives. Modern portfolio theory 
suggests that over 90% of investment returns relate to the underlying asset allocation of 
the portfolio rather than specific fund selection. We subscribe to this view and our primary 
concern on an ongoing basis is the rebalancing of the portfolio to maintain the attitude to 
risk we have agreed on at the outset. We will therefore be allowing past performance and 
events to determine action to rebalance, keeping the asset allocation in line with your 
attitude to risk. We also believe that active trading within a portfolio is both expensive and 
unnecessary
Mr R hadnt used a DIS arrangement previously. The concept was introduced by AFH. 
There was a duty of care on it to make sure what it was recommending was appropriate for 
him. But its not clear to me he wouldve understood what added value was supposed to be 
provided by the arrangement. Yet he was paying a lot of money for it.
Mr R had limited investment experience, but he wasnt a sophisticated investor. He had a 
good personal pension pot which hed built up over several years. AFH hasnt done 
enough to demonstrate that the recommendations it made to Mr R to take on a DIS 
facility, was suitable.
Rather the arrangement it put in place was over-engineered, complicated, relatively 
expensive and it wasnt clear it was likely to be able to produce a better return than his 
RL personal pensions.
Overall, AFH hasnt done enough to demonstrate that the switch of Mr Rs RL personal 
pensions into a SIPP using its DIS arrangement to actively manage his funds was clearly 
in his best interests. For example:
- As it acknowledged as the outset, his existing pension provisions were sufficient 
to meet his retirement income objectives.
- The new arrangements it recommended were more expensive, but the rationale 
for putting them in place was weak. There wasnt a proper analysis provided 
showing whether the proposal had a reasonable prospect of improving his 
position.
- It didnt have a grip on what Mr Rs retirement plans were. And this was an 
important part of the jigsaw in terms of being able to implement an investment 
strategy that was suitable. 
- Although Mr R was a director of his firm, he wasnt experienced in pension or 
investment matters. AFH didnt meet its duty of care when recommending the 
complicated replacement pension arrangements.
Putting things rightIm upholding Mr Rs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold AFH Independent Financial Services Limited responsible for.
If AFH had provided suitable advice, I dont think Mr R wouldve switched his personal 
pensions into a James Hay SIPP, nor taken on a DIS facility which invested his funds 
according to the arrangement. I think its most likely his RL plans wouldve remained 
invested with the same asset mix.
My understanding is that Mr R moved his pension to a new provider in 2021 and started 
taking benefits from his pension after this. I havent seen any commentary or evidence 
about issues such as illiquid holdings.
So, subject to Mr R cooperating with AFH Independent Financial Services Limited to 
provide any information it requires to assess his loss fairly, it needs to provide redress to 
him as follows.
Calculate a notional loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the switch of his personal 
pensions
AFH should obtain the notional value of Mr Rs previous personal pensions with RL, as at 
the date his SIPP was closed. So, as if they hadnt been switched in the first place. It will 
need to obtain the value of the plans as previously invested.
AFH should then find the (actual) value of his SIPP up until he closed this and transferred 
to a different pension provider, including investments and any cash held.
Mr R made further contributions to his James Hay SIPP. I dont know if he took any 
benefits from it while it was open. After confirming the detailed position, then the value 
AFH obtains or the calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still 
have occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Rs 
former personal pensions and the value of his SIPP at the date it was closed will be his 
basic financial loss that AFH needs to redress.
Pay an amount into Mr Rs pension pot so the value is increased by the loss calculated or 
pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax.
If compensation is paid into Mr Rs existing pension, payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief, so that hes in the same position as if hed stayed in 
his original personal pension schemes.
If paying compensation into Mr Rs SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance, then it should pay him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make 
a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr R hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
AFH must pay interest on the compensation from the date Mr R transferred his pension 
provision out of the James Hay SIPP to another provider, until the date of settlement at 8% 
simple per year.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFH considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr R how much has been 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
In addition, AFH Independent Financial Services Limited should pay Mr R £300 to recognise 
the inconvenience its failings have caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint, and I require AFH 
Independent Financial Services Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman