DRN-2892597
The complaint
Mr L complains TSB Bank plc declined his request to set up a new payee on his current 
account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr L attended the TSB branch in July 2020 the pandemic had changed how TSB 
operated its branches. The investigator set this out in some detail, so I wont repeat it here. 
But in summary, TSB decided to limit branches to undertaking only essential transactions. 
Other banks did the same. And it was in line with government advice and guidance from the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Mr L says he wanted to set up a new payee. I dont think this was an essential transaction. I 
say this because by his own testimony, Mr L wanted to set up a new payee so he could 
make a payment at a time in the future yet to be decided  so he didnt need to make an 
urgent payment there and then. I accept he may not have been able to set up a new payee 
through internet banking without making a payment at the same time (or at some time in the 
near future). But it seems to me Mr L could have set up a new payee and made the payment 
through internet banking when it was needed. And given Mr L opened the account online I 
think its unlikely this would have been problematic for him. It follows that I think TSBs 
decision to decline his request to set up a new payee in branch was reasonable. 
Mr L says another bank did as he asked and feels TSB should have done so too. I can 
understand why he thinks this. But I dont know what circumstances led to the other bank 
acting differently. And in any case, my role here is to decide if TSB treated him fairly and 
reasonably, and for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied it did.
I understand Mr Ls frustration. Going into branch for this sort of thing would ordinarily be 
part of a normal banking relationship. But these were unusual times, for everyone. And here, 
although I accept Mr L didnt get what he wanted done in the way he wanted, thats not 
through a mistake on the part of TSB.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman