DRN-4286509
The complaint
Ms M complains that Experian Limited is misreporting a closed credit card account on her 
credit file. 
What happened
Ms M had a credit card with a business Ill call C. Ms M has explained that in November 
2018 she entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP) via a third party organisation that 
provides debt advice. Ms M made payments under the DMP but C failed to note an 
arrangement to pay on her credit file. Ms M has explained that C upheld her complaint and 
contacted the various credit reference agencies to amend the information recorded about 
her credit card to include an arrangement to pay. 
Ms M has explained that the other credit reference agencies were able to update her credit 
file to include the arrangement to pay. But Experian has explained that because the debt 
was sold to another business, its applied a sold flag to Ms Ms credit file. And Experian 
says that marker supersedes the arrangement to pay flag Ms M is asking it to report. And 
Experians explained that as the debt has been sold, it cant now apply the arrangement to 
pay flag to Ms Ms credit file. 
Ms M complained and Experian issued a final response. Experian said its systems are 
designed to record the most up to date information on a credit file. Experian explained that it 
cant record two separate flags at the same time. And Experians explained the most recent 
information recorded in respect of Cs debt was that it had been sold to another business. 
Experian added that Ms M could add a Notice of Correction to her credit file to explain she 
was in an arrangement to pay, or DMP, between November 2018 and April 2019. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ms complaint. They thought Experian had dealt 
with Ms Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. On Ms Ms behalf, Mr 
M asked to appeal. Mr M said Experian had incorrectly recorded missed payments on Ms 
Ms credit file between November 2018 and March 2019. Mr M added that if Experian cant 
include the arrangement to pay flag during those months it should replace the missed 
payments with U or unknown as a fairer reflection of the credit card. As Mr M asked to 
appeal Ms Ms complaint, its been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to the investigator, Mr M said Experian was incorrectly recording arrears on 
Ms Ms credit file between November 2018 and April 2019. But whilst Ms M was in an a 
DMP, that agreement meant she was making payments that were lower than the contractual 
monthly payment. So whilst Ms M was making a lower payment, her account was in arrears 
on the basis she wasnt paying the full amount. Experians website explains that when a 
consumer is in an arrangement to pay, it will still show that reduced payments have been 
made. That means, despite being part of an arrangement to pay, arrears can continue to 
build and be reported. So even if Experian was able to amend Cs credit card record to 
include the arrangement to pay, the arrears would continue to be recorded. 
Experians also explained that due to the way its systems operate, it reports the most recent 
account status via its flag on Ms Ms credit file. But when the account was closed at default 
and then sold, the most recent relevant flag reflected the transfer of ownership not the 
arrangement to pay. 
Experian has explained it cant amend Ms Ms credit file further but has given the option of 
adding a Notice of Correction. In my view, thats a reasonable alternative as it means Ms M 
can record the fact she was in an arrangement to pay between November 2018 and April 
2019, when the account defaulted, and her credit file will also show the debt has been sold 
to a new owner. 
Mr M has suggested it would be more accurate for Experian to amend the credit file and use 
U or unknown for the months Ms M was party to the arrangement to pay. But Im satisfied 
the payment record is a fair reflection of how the account was operated. I havent found 
grounds to tell Experian to record a U in place of the arrears showing between November 
2018 and April 2019. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms M but Im satisfied that Experian has explained why it cant 
now apply an arrangement to pay flag to Cs credit card record. And Im satisfied that the 
offer of applying a Notice of Correction to add the detail that Ms M was party to an 
arrangement to pay between November 2018 and April 2019 is a reasonable alternative. As 
Im satisfied Experian is accurately recording Cs credit card as far as possible and has 
provided a reasonable work around, Im not telling it to make any changes. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman