DRN-3312518
The complaint
Mr S complains that a warranty he bought using a credit card supplied by Sainsburys bank 
Plc (Sainsburys), was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or in whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
If Mr S was told something that was false and that led him to enter into an agreement he 
wouldnt otherwise have entered into I would think the agreement had been misrepresented 
to him and Id expect Sainsburys to have taken some action.
Mr S says that the warranty he purchased was misrepresented to him. He says he was told 
everything was included in his warranty and he was therefore surprised that a claim he made 
to the warranty provider in respect of the clutch failing on his car, was rejected by them.
Whilst I understand Mr S asserts that he was told everything was included in the warranty I 
dont have any further evidence to corroborate that assertion. Theres no record, for 
instance, of the conversation he had with the salesperson. Mr S points to the fact that this 
was quite an expensive warranty and I note it was detailed as five star. But I think its fair to 
expect a warranty on an older car to be more expensive than one on a new car as theres 
more chance things may go wrong. So, I dont think the price is enough to suggest the 
warranty would cover everything.
The warranty policy defines mechanical or electrical failure as:
the sudden failure of a component arising from any permanent mechanical or electrical 
defect for a reason other than wear and tear, normal deterioration or negligence. The 
guarantee will not meet the cost of routine servicing and maintenance adjustments or 
components failing as a result of normal wear and tear.
The warranty company reviewed the photographs provided by the repairer and noted there 
was no evidence of any sudden failure. They offered to cover the cost of an independent 
inspection but say that offer wasnt taken up by Mr S. I think the evidence suggests that the 
clutch failed due to normal wear and tear and in those circumstances the warranty will not 
meet the cost of repair.
I dont therefore think Sainsburys need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman