DRN-1814652
 
The complaint
Ms C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Ms C bought the PPI policy when she applied for a credit card by post in 1998. She doesnt 
remember much about the sale but says that sometimes, as a lone parent, her decisions 
werent the best. She says she didnt need to cover because she got sick pay through her 
work.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Cs complaint didnt uphold it. She disagrees and so her 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. I know this will disappoint Ms 
C but I hope the reasons Im about to give will help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion
Nationwide had to make it clear to Ms C she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement 
to it before adding the policy to her card. Nationwide has sent us a copy of Ms Cs credit 
card application form. It had a separate section for PPI giving options to accept or decline it. 
The option to take the policy has been ticked on Ms Cs form and shes signed the 
application form.
From this information, I think Nationwide made it clear Ms C didnt have to take out the PPI 
and I think she chose to take it out.
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Ms C so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms C got the information she needed to make that 
decision herself in an informed way. Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms C 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  for instance about its true cost and the 
things it didnt cover. But I think Ms C chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means 
she had of making her repayments, in particular her work benefits. Initially, Ms C told us she 
got 12 months sick pay but more recently shes sent in documents suggesting shed have 
got 20 days sick pay followed by statutory sick pay.
For each successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim Ms C made the PPI wouldve 
helped with Ms Cs card repayments for up to 12 months. This was much longer than Ms Cs 
full sick pay lasted  and wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay.Based on what Ive seen of Ms Cs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it wouldve been useful for 
her if something went wrong. So I dont think clearer information about the PPI wouldve put 
her off taking out the cover. This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms C.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it shouldve told Ms C about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Ms C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms C. But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Ms 
C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman