DRN-2236632
The complaint
Mrs F complains that she was mis-sold a life insurance policy by a representative of First 
Complete Ltd.
What happened
Mrs F initially took out a guaranteed whole of life policy in early 2018. Shes said that this 
was because she wanted to leave some money to her children. Later in 2018 she was 
approached by the same adviser who was by that point working for a new business  a 
representative of First Complete. Mrs F was advised to start a new policy, replacing the one 
from earlier in the year, as the adviser now had access to a wider range of insurance 
providers and was able to obtain more cover for the same price. 
Its the sale of this replacement policy that forms the basis of this complaint. Mrs F says she 
was harassed by the adviser and didnt need the replacement policy, which shes now 
cancelled. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said, in short, that he didnt 
feel there was sufficient evidence to show that Mrs J had been harassed. He was conscious 
that the advice to start the new policy wouldve been of benefit to Mrs J as the adviser was 
able to offer a higher level of cover for slightly lower premiums, or even a reduction in 
premiums. In respect of Mrs Js concerns about the advisers use of her personal data to 
make contact once she had moved to the new business, the investigator suggested this 
concern would be better raised with the Information Commissioners Office. 
Mrs F didnt accept the investigators view. She said shed not been sent any paperwork, 
including not being provided with the lower quotation for the new policy. She wanted a 
refund of the premiums paid as she questioned why she would have taken out a new policy 
to only save 32p each month. She said shed been pushed and hounded by the adviser and 
the advisers husband. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, I should stress that Im only considering the sale of the policy to Mrs F that took 
place in November 2018. Thats the only sale for which First Complete is responsible. 
And in that respect, while I recognise that Mrs F feels very strongly that the adviser acted 
incorrectly, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to support a finding that the adviser did 
anything wrong. 
I appreciate it may have been frustrating to be approached by the adviser only a few months 
after having gone through a sales process. But the approach was intended to let Mrs F know 
that she could benefit from access to providers that had previously been unavailable. 
And its clear that there was benefit to Mrs J. Although shes questioned why she wouldve 
bothered taking out a new policy in order to save only 32p per month, the new policy also 
provided her with an extra £25,000 of cover  a total of just over £145,000, increasing from 
£120,000. There was also the potential to accept a lower premium of around £208 rather 
£236 for the same (or actually a little more) cover. I note Mrs J says she wasnt provided with 
the quotation for this lower premium, but First Complete has provided a copy of an email that 
shows she was sent both quotations.
I understand that Mrs J may now feel that she didnt need the cover, but Im conscious that 
when she first made her complaint she said that she started the process of obtaining cover 
in early 2018  when she was sold the first policy  because she was pro-actively seeking 
this type of cover to meet the objective of being able to leave some money to her daughters. 
So, in all the circumstances, while the sales process for the replacement policy may not 
have been completed in the most comprehensive manner, Mrs J ultimately ended up with 
more cover than shed had previously for less money. That being so, I dont think it can be 
reasonably concluded that shes been disadvantaged or incurred a loss.   
In respect of the calls made by the adviser, and the advisers husband, to Mrs J, while I note 
what shes said about feeling pressured and harassed, without documentary evidence to 
support Mrs Js recollections that an unwarranted number of calls took place, I dont feel able 
to uphold the complaint on this basis. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman