DRN-3600422
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Vision Independent Financial 
Planning Ltd (Vision) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-
related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension 
scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr T met Vision in October 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He wanted to 
review all the possibilities in the light of the situation with his scheme and employer, and his 
personal retirement needs.  
Vision completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ts circumstances and 
objectives. This showed he was 48 and living with his partner and their two dependent 
children. He was currently employed at Tata steel and had joined its new defined 
contribution (DC) scheme. Vision also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, 
which it said was balanced. 
In November 2017, Vision advised Mr T to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a way that it said matched his attitude to risk. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were so that Mr T would be able 
to draw down his pension flexibly which met his overall retirement strategy. 
Mr T complained in 2022 to Vision about the suitability of the transfer advice. He was 
concerned that he may have been given unsuitable advice and that this could have caused 
him a financial loss. 
Vision didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that, in summary, the advice provided was in 
accordance with his needs, circumstances and objectives at the time. It was suitable for him 
and met his requirements in a way the DB scheme could not. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Vision pay compensation. He thought it was likely that Mr T would 
receive benefits of a lower value that the DB scheme given the returns that were needed and 
his attitude to risk. And he could have met his early retirement, and flexibility needs, with his 
deferred DB scheme benefits and his employers DC scheme that he had recently joined. 
Whilst there were some advantages to the personal pension, such as the increased death 
benefits, these didnt make it in his best interests to transfer. 
Vision disagreed and it provided a detailed response which I have read. But, in summary, it 
said that it considered Mr Ts interests at all material times and said that the advice provided 
was in accordance with his personal circumstances and objectives at the time of advice.  
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
In August 2022 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress guidance. The FCAs proposed changes 
were due to come into effect in April 2023. Mr T wasnt clear at this point whether he would 
like any compensation calculated under the new guidance or not. 
However, in early 2023, Vision contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service to say that it 
now accepted what the Investigator had said, and it was prepared to calculate and offer 
compensation as our Investigator had recommended. 
The FCA has since developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator. And Vision wrote to Mr T 
and said it had carried out a loss assessment using the FCAs redress calculator and
enclosed a copy. It said, having done so, the calculation showed that Mr T had not incurred 
a financial loss and so he was not owed any redress. However, Vision said that it would pay 
£300 for any distress or inconvenience suffered by Mr T. A copy of this correspondence was 
provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr T hasnt accepted this offer and has also said that he thinks the compensation should be 
calculated as at an earlier time when the Investigator first upheld the complaint. 
So as no agreement has been reached, Im issuing my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above Vision has recently informed the Financial Ombudsman Service that it is 
willing to accept the Investigators view. It has agreed to calculate and pay compensation for 
any loss Mr T may have suffered due to the DB transfer and pay compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience Mr T may have suffered. As the suitability of the advice is no 
longer in dispute, I will focus in this decision on the proposed redress method.Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr T back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. Vision carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by Vision which are personal to Mr T. These 
include Mr Ts personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ts case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr T has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
So, I think the calculation carried out by Vision is appropriate in the circumstances and no 
redress for financial losses is due to Mr T. 
Mr T thinks that the calculation should have been performed as at the time the investigator 
upheld the complaint. Ive considered Mr Ts points carefully, but the regulator has set out 
what it considers the appropriate method of compensation to be in instances of unsuitable 
pension transfer advice. And this requires Vision to use the assumptions from the same 
financial quarter in which the calculation is carried out. I appreciate that the assumptions 
used in the redress calculation have changed significantly over the last 12 months, which 
has had an impact on the calculation. But Im satisfied the regulators redress method puts 
Mr T back, as far as possible, into the position he would have been in had he not transferred 
his BSPS benefits. And Im conscious that the way the regulator requires firms to calculate 
redress is consistent with the approach a court would take.
Vision has offered to pay Mr T £300 for any distress and inconvenience he may have suffered due to the advice it gave him. While the loss assessment has determined that Mr T 
hasnt been financially disadvantaged by the unsuitable advice, I accept that finding out the 
advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and uncertainty 
under which he first asked for this advice  has caused him some concern. Mr T has said 
this has caused him worry whilst the matter remained unresolved, and Mr T has said he also 
had to make what he feels are very difficult decisions. So, I think Visions offer to pay Mr T 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mr T a 
sum of £300 for the worry he says this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman