DRN-2465091
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited mis-sold 
him an asset protection insurance (API) policy.
Reference to Pendragon includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R bought a car on a personal contract purchase finance agreement. At the same time the 
car dealer, who was acting as Pendragons agent, sold him an API policy. Around four years 
later Mr Rs car was damaged in an accident and his comprehensive motor insurer deemed 
it a total loss. Mr R claimed on his API policy. He expected it to pay the difference between 
his motor insurers settlement (the settlement) for the loss of his car and the invoice price 
hed paid for it originally. But the API underwriter told him that, at that time, his policy only 
covered the difference between the settlement and any outstanding finance on the car. And 
as the finance owing was less than the settlement there was nothing for the API policy to 
pay.
Mr R complained to Pendragon that it had mis-sold the policy. He brought his complaint to 
us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think Pendragon had done anything 
wrong. Mr R didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
It's clear that at the time Mr Rs motor insurer deemed his car a total loss Mr R felt his API 
policy would pay him the difference between the settlement and the invoice price of his car. 
But Mr Rs policy says it will only settle claims on that basis where the car is deemed a total 
loss within 36 months of him taking out the policy. At the time of his claim, Mr R was beyond 
the 36 month point. And the policy says in those circumstances it would pay the difference 
between the settlement and any outstanding finance. 
So, when the policy underwriter looked at Mr Rs claim, as the settlement was higher than 
the outstanding finance, the underwriter said there was nothing for the policy to pay. Mr R 
said Pendragon told him the policy would cover the difference between the settlement and 
the invoice price for the full length of his finance agreement. And as that wasn't the case, he 
said Pendragon mis-sold the policy.
Pendragon has a record of the demands and needs it went through when offering Mr R the 
policy. That shows it told him the policy was suitable for his needs as it would pay him the 
difference between the settlement and his invoice price or any amounts outstanding on his 
finance after the settlement was paid. Mr R says that's not the case and his memory of 
events is that the sale only referred to the difference between the settlement and the invoice 
price, without reference to settling the finance. On the other hand, Pendragon spoke with the 
salesman concerned, who said he is experienced in selling this kind of policy and was aware 
of the periods it covered. So he said he wouldn't have told Mr R the policy would cover the 
invoice amount after the 36 month period had passed. 
Clearly I wasn't there at the time of the sale. So I can't say with any certainty what was or 
wasn't said between the dealer and Mr R. But Ive noted that the policy documents make it 
clear that it will only cover the difference between the settlement and the invoice price for 36 
months. The policy adds that after 36 months the policy benefits will be limited to covering 
the difference between the settlement and any sum outstanding on the finance. So, I think 
its unlikely that Pendragon would have deliberately misrepresented what the policys 
benefits were, when I think those are clear in the paperwork.
Further, Pendragon provided Mr R with copies of the policy documents. Those advised Mr R 
to read the policy and make sure it met his needs. And, if it didn't do so, Mr R could have 
cancelled the policy without penalty during its 30 day cooling off period and bought a policy 
that did meet his needs. So, if Mr R had expected the policy to pay the difference between 
the settlement and invoice price for the four-year term of his finance agreement then he 
could have cancelled the policy. But he didn't do so.
In response to our investigators assessment of his complaint Mr Rs said the policy he 
wanted was a return to invoice (RTI) policy  which pays the difference between the 
settlement and the invoice price. He said he didn't think he was buying a finance gap policy 
 which pays the difference between settlement and outstanding finance. He also said he 
found the term GAP insurance, which our investigator referred to, to be misleading. So Mr R 
again felt Pendragon mis-sold the API policy to him.
It seems there is some confusion over the terminology being used. So it might help if I 
explain that the term GAP is used when referring to insurance policies of this type. It doesnt 
mean gap as in describing the difference between two values. Instead GAP is an 
acronym/abbreviation which is short for Guaranteed Asset Protection policy, which refers to 
a range of insurance products. There are many different types of GAP policy on the market, 
which include RTI, API and finance shortfall policies amongst others. So reference to a GAP 
policy includes the type of policy - RTI - that Mr R says he wanted.
Also, the API policy Mr R bought has two distinct benefits. In the first 36 months it acts as an 
RTI policy, paying the difference between the invoice price and the settlement. But any claim 
made after the first 36 months is limited to any shortfall between the settlement and the 
outstanding finance. So, in fact, Pendragon did sell Mr R an RTI policy, although the benefits 
of that part of the policy were limited to its first 36 months. In other words, it sold Mr R the 
policy he wanted. And Ive seen no evidence, beyond Mr Rs recollection, that it told him the 
RTI cover would extend beyond the 36 month period. It follows that, in the absence of other 
persuasive evidence that the policy was mis-sold, I don't think Pendragon treated Mr R 
unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
15 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman