DRN-3946498
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
wont refund the money they lost when they fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In late 2020/early 2021, S received an email from someone posing as M  a legitimate 
supplier who they had an ongoing business relationship with. The impersonator used a 
slightly different email to that of the genuine supplier. They told S Ms payment details had 
changed. 
Ss financial manager, who I understand dealt with payments to M, updated the bank details 
and arranged for two payments to be made using the new account details provided. The 
payments were requested on, and scheduled for, slightly different dates. Both payments 
were subsequently returned.
The manager reattempted the first payment when it was returned, and it then went through. 
It seems the only change made, compared to the returned payments, was the addition of a 
word to the account name. 
Another payment was then sent to a different account/bank, with the same account name as 
the payment that had been sent successfully  which matched Ms name. Its not particularly 
clear when/how these different bank details were provided. This payment was also returned. 
The manager then made another payment to a different account with a different bank. I 
understand that, in the meantime, the impersonator had told S they wanted payments to be 
made to a broker rather than to them direct. It appears the payment amount was to cover the 
two returned payments which hadnt yet been resent. This payment went through 
successfully.
The manager realised they had been scammed when the genuine company, M, got in touch 
chasing the payments they were owed. She had also prescheduled another payment to the 
broker account mentioned above. But she was able to alert NatWest before its scheduled 
date, so NatWest was able to retrieve it. Overall, with the returned payments, Ss 
outstanding loss from the scam is just under $150,000.
S complained to NatWest about what had happened. They were unhappy it hadnt refunded 
them and said it had provided poor service since being notified of the scam. NatWest 
maintained it wasnt liable and so, unhappy with this response, S referred the complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think any failings by NatWest had 
contributed to Ss loss. Nor did he think NatWest was otherwise liable. He explained it had 
contacted the recipients promptly when notified about the scam payments  but those 
recipients didnt return the funds. Overall he didnt think it ought to have done more which 
would have prevented (or retrieved more of) the loss.  
S have appealed the investigators outcome. Broadly, they disagree with the investigators 
point that the payments shouldnt have been checked because of their history making large 
payments, as these were large payments to new payees. They say recovery wasnt 
extensive enough. Theyre unhappy with how NatWest handled things once it was notified of 
the scam. They note it has since implemented additional fraud measures. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the payments were authorised by S (via an agent acting with their 
authority). In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the bank is expected to 
execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So, although I appreciate S 
were the victim of a scam, the starting position is that they are liable for the payments. 
As our investigator has explained, Ss claim also isnt covered by the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. This only covers scam transfers 
between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts. Whereas these payments were made 
from a US dollar account and were sent internationally. So I dont consider it wrong or unfair 
that NatWest hasnt applied the code in this case. 
There are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant rules, 
codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the 
wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If NatWest 
failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
This scam did involve high-value payments. But it was common for S to make high-value 
international payment, often for more than any of the payments they are disputing here. The 
payments were also spread out, making them appear less suspicious in amongst Ss 
genuine account activity. I therefore consider it reasonable that NatWest didnt identify a 
fraud risk and so simply processed the payments in line with the authorised instructions it 
received. 
I have considered Ss point about entering incorrect account details, resulting in some of 
these payments bouncing back and being returned to the account. Based on the 
information provided, I understand this was because the bank details used were 
invalid/incorrect. 
As set out in the information Ive shared with both parties, which neither has disputed, it 
appears the first two returned payments were sent using the same details. Payment one was 
returned and then resent, with just a small addition to the account name. It appears all other 
payment/account details were correct. I wouldnt reasonably expect every returned payment to flag to a bank as being an indicator 
of fraud. Payments can be returned due to details not matching - and I'm not persuaded 
that's necessarily more likely in fraud than in other scenarios. Particularly when, as in this 
case, it appears to be a small mis-match; the payment went through successfully when the 
manager added a missing word to the account name. 
The information I've received also doesn't make it clear where the bank details came from 
and whether the omission of this word was a manual error by the manager, rather than an 
issue with the bank details provided. I have asked S if they have further information about 
this, such as records of the emails, but they have just referred me back to the information 
they have already provided (such as their prior phone contact with our service). Having 
reviewed all of this, I havent found anything which clarifies this point. 
And so I'm not persuaded this was a sign the bank ought to have picked up of that indicated 
S might be at risk from fraud. Particularly when the larger returns  caused by the same 
error - were around a month apart. Even if it had spoken to S, say after the second payment 
was returned - I don't think NatWest, nor S, would necessarily have been concerned. By that 
point, the first payment had already been successfully resent after amending the account 
name. So that would have appeared more likely a typing error rather than a sign of fraud.
S say the change in account details ought to have looked suspicious, and NatWest should 
have verified this with the account holder. But I wouldnt reasonably expect a bank to 
complete extra checks or verification whenever a new payee is added, or a payee is 
amended. This will be a common activity, often prompted by factors other than fraud. And 
ultimately, S have told us it was their financial manager who did all these types of payments, 
not the directors. So if that was their process, it doesnt seem fair for me to conclude that 
NatWest ought to have checked this with the directors as well. Its not the banks role to 
interfere with their internal business arrangements. 
Overall, I dont consider the level of incoming and outgoing payments to have looked 
particularly unusual or suspicious. And so I'm not persuaded that NatWest ought to have 
identified a fraud risk and succeeded in stopping the scam.
I do appreciate Ss concerns about how NatWest handled things once it became aware of 
the scam. They say there was a gap contacting the recipient bank(s) to ask for the funds to 
be returned. And the contact was made via the manager who made the payments, rather 
than notifying the director. 
However, as our investigator mentioned, it appears that NatWest did start the recovery 
process on the same day as being told about the scam. Waiting to check this with the 
directors would only have slowed down any recovery efforts. Unfortunately, NatWest wasnt 
able to successfully recall the funds. 
Although I appreciate this was frustrating for S, Im afraid its not surprising. The systems 
and communications banks have in place to deal with foreign banks are limited, and in my 
professional experience its not uncommon to find that foreign banks dont reply promptly  if 
at all. This, coupled with the fact the scam was reported around three weeks after the last 
scam payment that went through successfully, makes it unlikely NatWest would have been 
able to recover anything more. As its common for scammers to promptly move on the funds, 
to minimise the risk of them being recovered. 
While I appreciate S feels NatWests general communication over this matter could have 
been better, I dont think its likely this had a material impact on the outcome of the recovery 
attempts or scam claim. So I dont consider it fair and reasonable to direct NatWest to do 
anything further to address this.  While its undoubtedly true that NatWest will have made changes to its fraud systems over 
time, thats what Id expect it to be doing. And I think most consumers would want to see 
banks making changes as their knowledge of scams and technical capability etc. improves. I 
cannot fairly hold it to a higher standard retrospectively because of this. Thinking about what 
its reasonable to have expected from NatWest at the time, Ive not found sufficient grounds 
to hold it liable for the outstanding loss. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ss directors. Their business has clearly been the 
victim of a cruel scam which has left them with a significant loss. But my role is to assess 
whether its fair and reasonable to hold NatWest liable for this. For the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im not persuaded its fair to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman