DRN-3674809
The complaint
Miss C and Mr S complain that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has treated them 
unfairly in relation to their buildings warranty.
Any reference to Miss C, Mr S or AmTrust includes any agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In June 2019 Miss C and Mr S purchased a new build property which included an 
AmTrust warranty.
Miss C and Mr S raised concerns about damage to the property and AmTrust 
considered this under its conciliation scheme. Within an August 2020 technical report 
it listed accepted defects and other areas that required further investigation. And it 
gave the developer three months for the remedial works to be completed.
A second technical report was produced in August 2021, listing some of the same 
defects previously identified as outstanding.
Miss C and Mr S raised concerns about the warranty with AmTrust. And since 
brought the complaint to this Service. AmTrust objected to this. Following some back 
and forth, one of our Ombudsmen issued a decision in February 2022 saying the 
Service had the power to consider the defects identified within the August 2020 
report, which were not yet resolved by August 2021.
Our Investigator looked into the merits of the complaint. This included concerns 
about Miss C and Mr S having access to third party data, problems with the 
propertys brickwork that they said AmTrust had unfairly declined to consider as a 
defect and accept under the guarantee, AmTrusts use of exclusions, a dispute over 
AmTrusts works to damp proof course (DPC), and claims handling.
The Investigator directed AmTrust to pay £600 compensation, accept external 
brickwork as a valid defect, instruct a new contractor or provide a cash settlement for 
the DPC issue, and take steps to discuss any data protection concerns.
Amtrust disagreed, saying some of the delays were as a result of Miss C and Mr S 
actions and difficulties they presented in allowing appointments. It said it had referred 
to the ICO on the data issue. It agreed the DPC issue was a defect, but said it 
required confirmation of works carried out and the developer failed to provide 
investigation photographs due to Mr S actions.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said Miss C and Mr S 
had been forthcoming with information and patient. And had AmTrust intervened 
earlier, matters wouldve been resolved sooner.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I first issued a 
jurisdiction decision, explaining that this Service was only able to comment on 
matters that were identified as defects within the August 2020 technical report. And 
this meant I could not address Miss C and Mr S brickwork concerns. I then issued a 
provisional decision on the merits of the complaint. Ive included an extract of this 
below.
As I have outlined in my previous decision, this Service can consider complaints 
where:
oa Technical Manual report has been completed; and
othe report directs a developer to do something by a deadline; and
othe developer has failed to complete the works by this deadline.
In this case AmTrust has produced Technical Manual reports in August 2020 which 
identified certain defects. The one in question here is the DPC, which it discussed 
across three areas of the external ground level, including the front of property, right of 
property, and left of property. This report concludes:
DPCs should finish 150mm above the finished ground level.
In the case of the front of the property, either side of the front door, works 
have been carried out to meet this requirement retroactively, and this area is 
not a defect.
To the left side of the front door, and below the living room window, the DPC 
height above the finished ground level meets the technical requirements, and 
is not a defect.
To the area to the right side of the property, where the corner of the garage 
meets the driveway/footpath, the DPC is not 150mm above the finished 
surface, and is a defect. I recommend the developer carries out the same 
remedial works as have been done to the front door, with a retrofit DPC 
finishing 150mm above the finished surface level.
So, it appears just the DPC on the right side of the property was considered a defect. 
And the developer was given three months to action these.
Within the August 2021 report, under defects, it refers to the same issue having 
previously been raised within the previous report. And it concludes:
DPCs should finish 150mm above the finished ground level. One area of 
retrospectively installed DPC does not extend full width of the outer leaf of the 
brickwork.
The Developer should arrange for all the areas previously completed to be 
exposed and photographs provided to demonstrate that a full width 
retrospective DPC has been correctly installed.
Any other areas identified as requiring a secondary DPC as per the original 
TMR report should be undertaken.
In order to successfully install a full width DPC, the brickwork is likely to 
require temporary structural support whilst the bed joint is removed fully to 
facilitate the insertion of the full width DPC. The joint will then require 
packing/repointing, allowing this to cure before the support is removed.
I understand the developer did carry out some repairs in this regard. But from this 
technical report it seems clear to me that the initial recommendations and direction 
from AmTrust werent met by the developer within the three-month period it set. And 
it appears to me that the work was no further on a year later than the initial report.
So, Im satisfied AmTrust shouldve stepped in earlier, and its inaction on this point 
has led to a delay to these works being completed.AmTrust has said that it required further confirmation of the works carried out from 
the developer but said they hadnt provided investigation photographs. And it 
attributed this to Miss C and Mr S actions albeit Im unclear how it holds them 
responsible for this or how this wouldve been possible for Miss C or Mr S to prevent 
this. So, this doesnt persuade me that AmTrust isnt responsible for this delay.
AmTrust has also said that Miss C and Mr S frustrated the claim by only allowing the 
property access on certain dates and times and raising issues in a piecemeal fashion 
with both AmTrust and the developer which caused confusion. Ive taken into account 
its comments here, but Im not in agreement that this is reflective of the approach 
Miss C or Mr S have taken with AmTrust.
Miss C and Mr S arent the experts here  so it doesnt surprise me that some issues 
may arise across the life of a claim and not all be apparent at the start. And having 
reviewed the correspondence, while I agree Miss C and Mr S were not free for 
appointments at all times, I dont believe this was obstructive in the way AmTrust has 
described.
For the reasons Ive given above, Im in agreement with our Investigator that AmTrust 
has failed to demonstrate that an effective and lasting repair has been completed on 
the DPC defect identified. So, Im intending to direct AmTrust to step in and handle 
the matter related to the DPC defect issue in line with its policy terms.
And in light of the avoidable frustration, distress and inconvenience caused to Miss C 
and Mr S caused by delays and AmTrust not stepping in earlier I am intending to 
direct it to pay £300 in compensation. Miss C and Mr S will notice this is lower than 
the sum awarded by our Investigator  which I believe is reflective of the more limited 
circumstances that Ive been able to consider within this decision.
Miss C and Mr S raised a concern about having access to other peoples data. Since 
this matter has come to this Service, AmTrust has confirmed it had referred the 
matter to the ICO. This is in line with what I would expect, and Im satisfied this is a 
sufficient resolution to address the specific data concerns raised.
And I explained I was minded to uphold the complaint, and direct AmTrust to pay £300 in 
compensation to Miss C and Mr S; and for it to take over the handling of the claim in relation 
to the DPC defect in line with its policy terms and conditions.
Miss C and Mr S disagreed. They provided a detailed response outlining the number of 
defects present and how AmTrusts actions had led to 13 months of unproductive meetings 
with the developer which left the matters unresolved.
I carefully considered the commentary put forward by Miss C and Mr S, sharing this with 
AmTrust. I told it I was minded to reconsider the compensation award to £500 in the 
circumstances and invited any further comments from AmTrust in light of the impact Miss C 
and Mr S described.
AmTrust responded to say it disagreed with my findings both on compensation, and that the 
DPC matter should not be transferred to a claim. It provided a range of documents in 
response, including a certificate of insurance, a policy book, and comments from its handlers 
that it has shared previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.AmTrust has reiterated its position in its most recent response but provided me with nothing 
new to consider. So, for these reasons, I see no reason to depart from my previous decision. 
And Im still upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive given previously.
Ive thought carefully about the impact Miss C and Mr S have described, but I can only 
consider AmTrusts handling of identified defects and not the actions of the developer. 
I do recognise that AmTrust shouldve stepped in earlier in the claim, but Im not persuaded 
it would be reasonable to hold AmTrust responsible for the actions of the developer in these 
circumstances  as ultimately, they are separate entities. So, its the impact of AmTrusts 
delay I have considered when awarding compensation here. And Im satisfied £500 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to do the following.
Pay £500 in compensation to Miss C and Mr S; and
Take over the handling of the claim in relation to the DPC defect in line with its policy 
terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman