DRN-3883441
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) mishandled his loan.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr B borrowed £5,000 on a personal loan from TSB. There were to be 24 
payments of £250.42 and the first payment was made on 1 May 2020. So, the last payment 
was due on 1 April 2022. Mr Bs income was affected by the pandemic and TSB agreed a 
series of payment holidays under the pandemic support scheme. No payments were 
therefore made for the six months between August 2020 and January 2021 inclusive. 
Interest was added during the payment holiday months, except for November 2020 and 
December 2020 - when TSB agreed to waive interest for those months. 
A payment was paid to Mr Bs loan account on 1 November 2022  this was the 25th 
payment and the final payment of £80.66 was made on 1 December 2022. 
Mr B complained. He said that because of the payment holidays (PHs), the loan term should 
have been extended by six payments  so the last payment shouldve been 1 October 2022. 
As a result, he was paying more for the loan than he should have. And he said TSB agreed 
that the loan would be interest-free during the payment holidays  but interest had been 
charged. He also said that TSB hadnt responded to his complaint properly - they took too 
long.
TSB said theyd acted in line with the PH scheme. At that stage, they couldnt locate the call 
when the PH was set up  but the terms of the scheme were that interest was still to be 
charged. Mr B wouldve been advised that on the call. They didnt comment on the term of 
the loan  its not clear if Mr B made that complaint to TSB at that time.
Mr B didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said TSB acted 
reasonably. When the PHs were agreed to, TSB set out the terms in letters to Mr B  and 
these said the term of the loan would be extended to cover the skipped payments, and 
interest would be charged. 
Our investigator then listened to calls made between Mr B and TSB. And Mr B showed us a 
letter hed received from TSB which said the loan interest would be stopped. The letter was 
dated 28 October 2020 and said interest wouldnt be charged to the loan for the next 30 
days (i.e. November 2020). And TSB produced the calls which took place in July 2020 and 
October 2020.
Our investigator asked TSB about this aspect - and TSB confirmed that interest wasnt 
charged to the loan for the months of November 2020 and December 2020.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint  and so it has 
come to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to Mr Bs complaint:
- That he was charged interest during the PHs  he says he was told that wouldnt be 
the case.
- That the loan terms should have been extended by six months (the period of the 
PHs)  i.e. the last payment shouldve been 1 October 2022  but that wasnt the 
case, and a further payment was made on 1 November 2022, and there was still a 
balance outstanding after that.
- That TSB were slow in dealing with his complaint.
Interest charged on the loan during PHs: In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including TSB, had to put in place payment holidays on 
many credit agreements, including personal loans  to help customers who were affected. 
Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays, each of three months  whereby 
payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference 
agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts.
TSB agreed to  total of six months PHs under the support scheme. I can see that they set 
out the terms of those in letters sent to Mr B  four letters were sent to him between August 
2020 and January 2021. Each one said that interest would be charged on the loan, despite 
the suspended payments. The letters each said, Taking this repayment holiday means the 
extra interest of (amounts quoted) will be charged on your loan and your loan will be 
extended to cover the repayment you skipped. This was also in line with the terms of the 
FCA support scheme  so TSB were correct to charge interest.
I listened to the call between Mr B and TSB on 27 October 2020. And then  it was agreed 
that Mr B was in financial difficulty  an income and expenditure form was completed. TSB 
then agreed to waive interest on the loan for one month  i.e. for November 2020. And TSB 
wrote to Mr B to confirm that in their letter dated 28 October 2020. TSB then extended that 
for a further month. And I can see from Mr Bs loan statements that no interest was charged 
to the loan account in November 2020 and December 2020  so TSB acted fairly here. Mr B 
says that TSB agreed at that time to waive interest for the whole of the PH period  but I 
listened to the call, and it was clear that the agreement was then for a 30-day period only. 
There wasnt an agreement to waive interest for the whole of the PH periods.
Loan term: I can see that Mr B made three payments of £250.42 for the months of May 2020 
to July 2020. The PHs then meant that no payments were made for the next six months  
between August 2020 and January 2021. Payments then resumed on 1 February 2021 
through to October 2022  a total of 24 payments up to 1 October 2022  so, Mr B says the 
loan shouldve been finished with that payment. But the loan statement shows that a balance 
of £324.82 was then still outstanding and a further payment of £250.42 was made - on 1 
November 2022. And a final payment of £80.66 was made to close the loan on 1 December 
2022. 
I can see where Mr B is coming from  as he says he signed up to make 24 payments, and 
he has made 26 (including the final part payment). We asked TSB more about this. And the reason that Mr B made two more payments(one 
being £80.66) was because of the loan interest which was unpaid during the four months 
PH. The loan was a reducing balance loan with interest added onto the outstanding balance 
each month  so when no payments were received (during the PH periods), the balance of 
the loan increased. I can see this from the loan statements. So  this meant that the term of 
the loan was extended. How interest was charged was set out in the loan agreement which 
said, We charge interest at the annual interest rate on the amount outstanding on your 
loan.
It's also fair to say that Mr B was advised the term of the loan would be extended in the 
letters sent to him between August 2020 and January 2021 as these said Taking this 
repayment holiday means the extra interest of (amounts quoted) will be charged on your 
loan and your loan will be extended to cover the repayment you skipped.
TSBs handling of Mr Bs complaint: this service is governed by strict rules about what 
complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as being about a financial product or service. 
So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint handling or processes arent 
included. Mr Bs concerns about TSBs response here are specifically about how they 
handled a complaint and replied to it, so  this aspect of his complaint isnt one we can look 
at.
So, Im not asking TSB to do anything here. Mr B will be disappointed but I hope he finds this 
explanation helpful.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman