DRN-4441756
The complaint
Mr C has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined to pay a valid 
claim.
What happened
Mr C made a claim on a travel insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. 
On his return from his holiday, his suitcase didnt arrive and so he made a claim. UKI asked 
Mr C for evidence of ownership of the items he was claiming for such as receipts, photos or 
bank statements. Mr C said he couldnt provide this information as he didnt have it and 
didnt keep receipts. He didnt think it was reasonable for UKI to insist on this information and 
made a complaint.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think UKI had acted unfairly.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have carefully considered everything Mr C has said but my decision will focus on 
what I consider to be key. 
The policy terms say: You must provide us with proof of ownership and value for the 
items of baggage for which you are claiming to substantiate your claim. If you do not, 
it may affect your claim.
Mr C made a claim to the airline and received a payment of £362. He said his items 
were worth over £700 so he expected UKI to pay the difference. 
I have seen from UKIs claim notes that it explained to Mr C that it would need to see 
some sort of proof of ownership to substantiate the claim and asked if he had photos 
from the holiday showing that he was wearing the items. Or if he could provide proof 
of purchase through bank transactions. Mr C provided a list of items and their cost. 
And said he didnt have anything else. He said it was clear that he had a suitcase 
which contained items up to the luggage allowance. And UKI should know what 
people take on holiday. 
As Mr C doesnt have any evidence to show the value or proof of ownership for the 
items he is claiming, I dont think UKI unfairly declined to pay the claim. The policy 
terms make it clear that it would need to see evidence to show that the items 
belonged to Mr C and their value. I wouldnt expect Mr C to keep receipts for every 
item. But I would expect to see at least some evidence (such as photographs of him 
wearing the items) to show proof of ownership. 
Mr C has received a refund from the airline but he said this wasnt sufficient to meet 
the value of the items he had in his suitcase. I appreciate why Mr C is frustrated but I 
dont think UKI has done anything wrong. If Mr C is able to find some photographs or 
proof of ownership and value of his items, I would expect UKI to reconsider his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman