DRN-2365975
The complaint
Ms F complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has caused delays in its handling of 
her home insurance claim. Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes its agents unless 
otherwise specified.
What happened
The background of this case is known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in full again, but in 
summary, Ms F made a claim for subsidence under her Ageas home insurance policy. She 
disagreed with its findings that nearby vegetation had to be removed to resolve the matter. 
And she thought Ageas had failed to carry out a thorough investigation.
These matters were considered by this service under a separate complaint which wasnt 
upheld. At a later date, Ms F commissioned her own report on the subsidence and sent this 
new information to Ageas to consider. She complained it failed to progress her claim 
accordingly on the back of this and had failed to communicate with her in a timely manner.
Ageas explained Ms Fs report hadnt changed its findings and said it told her this shortly 
after receiving a copy of it. It was then waiting for her to confirm whether she wanted to 
proceed with the vegetation removal. 
After learning the report identified some areas of cracking that had worsened and that there 
was some damage that wasnt noted in its loss adjustor (Company As) original findings, it 
agreed to carry out another site visit at Ms Fs property to review this damage and answer 
any technical queries she had. Unhappy with this response, Ms F complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied 
Ageas hadnt caused avoidable delays and most of the additional time taken on this claim 
was as a result of Ms Fs disagreement with Ageas findings and commissioning her own 
report. He said Ageas had considered this report and taken reasonable steps on the back of 
it, so he didnt think it needed to do anything else. Ms F disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering the delays caused in this complaint, Ive looked over the timeline between the 
Final Response Letter (FRL) Ageas issued on Ms Fs previous complaint in April 2020, to the 
point it issued its most recent FRL in September 2020  a period of  around five months.
Ms F didnt provide Ageas with her report until June 2020. And it informed her soon after that 
its findings on the vegetation remained unchanged. It seems there was then some confusion 
between both parties about whether the concerns Ms F had post report would be looked at 
under the same complaint shed already raised previously with this service  or would be 
looked at as a new complaint.
At the end of July 2020, it was confirmed any concerns Ms F was raising post report would 
be considered as a new complaint by this service. So Ageas reconsidered Ms Fs report, and 
in doing so, it agreed to send Company A to carry out another site visit. I understand this has 
since taken place, with a report issued in October 2020, with Ms F now accepting the 
vegetation needs to be removed. So this matter no longer seems to be in dispute. What is in 
dispute is the potential delays caused, which Ms F says Ageas is responsible for.
But in looking at the timeline, I cant see that Ageas has caused any significant delays. I 
understand Ms F feels the complaint has been going on for a long time, which is true. But 
from what Ive seen, this was mainly due to the fact she wanted to get her own report. And I 
think it was fair for Ageas to allow her to do this and await the findings.
On receipt of this report, Im satisfied Ageas handled the claim in a timely manner. And when 
it was identified there were some discrepancies between the reports about the areas of 
damage at the property, it arranged for another site visit to address this which seems like a 
fair resolution in this case. 
Ms F has also raised concerns about the time it took Ageas to respond to her emails and 
chaser requests as she often had to wait weeks for a reply. But from what I understand 
Ageas made Ms F aware that it could take two weeks or more for it to respond to her. And in 
the circumstances of this case, the response times Ive seen dont seem to be excessive. So 
I wont be directing it to do anything further in relation to this.
Ive considered all of Ms Fs points, including her belief that had Ageas sent a structural 
engineer out in the first instance and explained its reasons for the vegetation needing to be 
removed, then she wouldve felt comfortable accepting its recommendations sooner. 
But Im satisfied Ageas appointed suitably qualified experts to assess the damage at Ms Fs 
property. And from what Ive seen, its explanation about the vegetation needing to be 
removed has remained broadly consistent throughout the claim, so these points dont 
change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman