The complaint
Mr R complains that Unum Ltd misled him about the cost of treatment he would have to pay 
under his dental insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R has a dental insurance policy with Unum through his employer which provides cover for 
100% of NHS dental costs.
Mr R called Unum about cover for dental treatment he needed. He thought Unums 
representative told him on the call that he would have to pay £50 excess for the dental 
treatment, not that the policy would only pay the NHS cost of around £50. 
Mr R says he realises he misunderstood but the call recording showed hes said to Unum 
so I only need to pay £50?" which Unums representative didnt respond to. Mr R said as 
Unums representative didnt correct him he thought he could have private treatment and 
only pay £50. Mr R said if hed known the amount the policy would pay he wouldnt have had 
private treatment.
Mr R wants Unum to pay the full amount he paid for the dental treatment, about £600, and 
compensation for Unum not picking up on what it told him in the call when it looked into his 
complaint.
Unum said it had told Mr R that if the treatment was carried out privately it would reimburse 
the NHS cost equivalent for the treatment. It apologised that its representative didnt respond 
to the comment Mr R had made and said it would do refresher training.
Our investigator said Unum had given Mr R clear enough information about the policy cover.
Mr R disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy schedule says Mr Rs policy (Radiant 1 plan), covers 100% of NHS dental costs. 
It also says:
DRN-1419260Additional information
If you receive private treatment under the Radiant 1 plan, we will reimburse the NHS 
equivalent charge for the whole course of treatment received.
We recommend that you check treatment costs prior to your appointment as these can vary. 
NHS dentists can choose to charge privately for certain treatments, you can check current 
NHS charges on the NHS Choices website.
Im satisfied the policy schedule clearly details the level of cover Mr R had and what he 
would be paid if he claimed under the policy.
Ive listened to the call Mr R made to Unum to check cover for treatment he was due to have. 
Mr R explained the treatment required. Unums representative said you are on a Radiant 1 
policy, which is NHS only. So if its under NHS, it would be fully reimbursed and if its not and 
done privately, youll just get the NHS equivalent for that course of treatment.
Mr R said about being referred to a private practice. Unums representative said the NHS 
equivalent for this in England is £59.10. Mr R said he was in Wales and Unums 
representative told him the NHS equivalent is £50.50. 
Mr R then said so it would cost me £50. Unums representative didnt respond. 
Mr R asked if he would be covered if he was treated on the NHS and Unums representative 
said there would be a charge but he would be fully reimbursed.
I think Unums representative was clear to Mr R in the call that the policy covered NHS costs 
only and if he had the treatment privately he would receive the NHS costs equivalent for the 
treatment. 
I accept Unums representative didnt respond to Mr R comment so it would cost me £50. 
But given the detailed information about cover Unums representative had already given Mr 
R in the call it had given clear enough information about cover.
Mr R accepts he misunderstood about cover and he thought the £50 was an excess. But 
Unums representative didnt mention an excess was deductible from a claim. I cant fairly 
hold Unum responsible for Mr Rs misunderstanding.
Unum apologised that its representative didnt respond to Mr Rs comment so I think it did 
take the information into account when it considered his complaint.
Unum reimbursed Mr R £59.10, the NHS treatment cost equivalent in England, not the 
slightly lower NHS cost equivalent in Wales which it should have paid. As a gesture of 
goodwill its not asking Mr R to refund the difference, which is fair. 
Unum has made a fair settlement under the policy terms. There no basis for me to say it 
must pay the full cost of Mr Rs private treatment or any compen sation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16July2020.Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman