DRN-3041774
The complaint
Mr N is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly declined his application for 
a business account which prevented him applying for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr N had a personal account with Lloyds and wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) with the bank. As part of Lloyds process, it required all businesses applying under the 
BBL Scheme to have either a business or feeder account with the bank before they could 
apply for a BBL. So in November 2020, Mr N applied to open a business account with 
Lloyds.
Lloyds declined Mr Ns application. It said Mr N didnt meet its criteria, which required that:
 
he was using his personal account for business purposes before 2 March 2020;
he had been trading prior to 2 March 2020; and 
he was either a sole trader, or applying on behalf of a partnership, club, society, or 
association. 
Mr N didnt agree and asked his local MP to raise a complaint on his behalf. Lloyds didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said it was only opening business accounts for personal account 
customers who met the account opening criteria  and having reviewed Mr Ns application 
again, it maintained its decision.  
Mr N didnt think this was fair, so he asked this service to look into his complaint. Mr N said 
hed asked the bank to explain which of the criteria he hadnt met, but it wouldnt tell him. He 
also explained why he believed he met the criteria and provided additional evidence in 
support of his application.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought Lloyds had 
reasonably declined Mr Ns application as hed not demonstrated any trading activity prior to 
2 March 2020.
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Although the BBL Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had some discretion to 
decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing customers. And 
while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers applying under the Scheme 
had a business relationship, lenders were entitled to require one. So Lloyds was entitled to 
require Mr N to open a business account before it would consider a BBL application from 
him.
Mr N said he was unhappy hed tried to open a business account between July and 
November 2020, but the bank wouldnt let him. Lloyds has explained that it wasnt opening 
any new business accounts initially due to the pandemic. This was a decision it was entitled 
to make.  
Lloyds has explained that as part of its business account opening criteria, it needed to see 
the personal account was being used in a manner consistent for a business account. It also 
needed proof that a borrower was trading prior to 2 March 2020 if this couldnt be seen in the 
personal account  as under the Scheme there were specific criteria that a business needed 
to meet before they could apply for a Bounce Back Loan  which included carrying on 
business on 1 March 2020.
I think its reasonable that Lloyds wanted to check this information before proceeding with 
the account application to ensure Mr N would be eligible for a BBL. I say this because due to 
the specific circumstances at the time, the bank was only opening new business accounts 
for customers who were eligible for a BBL - which was different to how Lloyds would 
normally assess a new business account application.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr N sent to the bank to prove he was trading prior to 2 March 
2020, but Ive seen that it was dated after 2 March 2020. Mr N then provided a signed 
agreement with the larger chain he was contracted to. However, this didnt show proof of 
trading, only that there was an agreement in place. So I think it was reasonable the bank 
couldnt use this as evidence of trading to support the application. 
Mr N says that because hes had his personal account with Lloyds prior to 2 March 2020, the 
bank should be able to see hes trading through the account. However, Lloyds has said it 
couldnt see the proof required as the transactions before this date were mainly cash. I 
recognise Mr N has explained the reasons behind these transactions, but Ive seen copies of 
his bank statements which have limited transactions. The payments dont show what they 
relate to and there is no additional documentation to provide an explanation for them. 
Since the complaint has been brought to the service, Mr N has provided invoices to show he 
was trading before 2 March 2020 which Lloyds has reviewed. The bank hasnt disputed the 
invoices were paid by Mr N prior to 2 March, but it couldnt match any of these payments to 
the transactions made through his personal account. So Lloyds wasnt satisfied Mr Ns 
account showed the proof of trading it needed to see for its eligibility criteria and maintained 
its decision to decline Mr Ns application. I think this was reasonable. 
Mr N also said Lloyds didnt explain to him why his application was declined and why he 
didnt meet its criteria. Its not unusual for a bank not to disclose these reasons in detail for a 
number of reasons, including preventing any circumvention of its regulatory checks. But Ive 
seen call notes from Lloyds which say the banks reasons were explained to Mr N both 
before he sent in the additional information and afterwards when the bank reconsidered his 
application. So I dont think Lloyds treated Mr N unfairly. 
I recognise that Mr N feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen I think Lloyds has acted reasonably. So, I wont be asking 
it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman