DRN-4230899
The complaint
Mr H says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as Moneyboat.co.uk (Moneyboat), 
irresponsibly provided him with two unaffordable loans.
What happened
This complaint is about two fixed sum loan agreement loans that Moneyboat provided to 
Mr H, in October 2022 and January 2023. The first loan was repayable by way of three 
monthly instalments of £285.51 and the second loan by way of six monthly instalments of 
£218.19. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought he shouldnt have been provided with 
either of the loans. 
As Moneyboat didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having
looked at the overall pattern of Moneyboats lending history with Mr H, I think that
Moneyboat should reasonably have seen that Mr H was unlikely to have been able to
make his payments in a sustainable manner when it provided these loans.
I say this because the information Moneyboat itself obtained showed that Mr H already had a 
substantial level of outstanding debt at the time of taking out both loans, including his 
mortgage. Broadly speaking he was having to find around £350 each month for his mortgage 
 although by January 2023 he was making reduced payment of around £250 - plus a further 
£900 to repay his existing credit commitments. His existing available credit on his credit 
cards had been substantially used  and in some cases exceeded. So I agree with our 
adjudicator that for each loan there was a strong suggestion that Mr H was already 
struggling with his finances at the point of both loans. 
I can see that Moneyboat carried out detailed checks and, given the size of each loan, I can 
appreciate why it might consider them to be proportionate. But I think the evidence that 
suggesting that Mr Hs financial position was poor and very likely deteriorating ought to have  
prompted it to carry out further investigations in order to make a fair lending decision for 
each loan. So Ive thought about the evidence and information that better enquiries would 
likely have shown. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Moneyboat to have verified Mr Hs financial 
circumstances, such as by requesting copies of his bank statements. Ive reviewed copies of 
these covering the six month period leading up to each lending decision. 
The statements are consistent in showing that Mr H was funding a high level of credit in line 
with the credit reports Ive seen. He was also having to find money for living costs, including 
utilities, food and travel. This was in addition to his mortgage costs where Mr H was already 
experiencing difficulty meeting his monthly repayments. Given that at the time of the first 
loan Mr H had outgoings were around  £2,300 against a monthly income of around £2,100, 
before allowing for the £284 monthly loan cost, he would not have had enough funds to 
cover it all. And for the second loan the situation would be much the same with Mr H having 
an income of around £2,250, expenditure of around £2,400 plus then having to find £218 to 
pay the loan, again leaving him with negative disposable income. I consider that all of this 
amply demonstrates that Mr H was not in a position to sustainably afford each of these two 
loans. 
It follows that Mr H has been required to pay interest and charges for each of these loans 
where in my view the evidence and information Ive seen clearly suggests Moneyboat 
shouldnt have provided them to him. So I think it follows that Mr H has lost out and 
Moneyboat should put things right.
Putting things right  what Moneyboat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on both loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement;
The payments that Mr H made, whether to Moneyboat directly or any third-party debt 
purchaser, should then be deducted from the new starting balance for each loan. If after 
all adjustments have been made an outstanding balance remains, Moneyboat can deduct this from what it now needs to pay Mr H as long as it owns any debt. If it doesnt 
own any debt at the time of settlement it isnt entitled to make any deduction;
All reference to these loans should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. 
Moneyboat must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint for both these loans. 
Evergreen Finance London Limited should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman