DRN-3920781
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about problems with their mortgage application to Suffolk Building 
Society. They ask that the valuation fee is refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H applied to Suffolk Building Society for a self-build mortgage to fund the costs 
of a barn conversion. They say the application progressed well until the valuation. The valuer 
said the property wasnt suitable security and the Society declined to lend. 
Mr and Mrs H say the valuer made errors, and that the Society shouldnt have accepted their 
application if barn conversions arent suitable security. Mr and Mrs H say they wasted three 
months with the application and were left without funds to continue the project.
Our investigator said the Society instructed a suitably qualified valuer. When Mr and Mrs H 
raised concerns about the valuation the Society asked the valuer to respond. Our 
investigator said the Society acted fairly and in accordance with its process. He didnt 
recommend that it refund the valuation fee.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. Mr H said the valuation wasnt carried out competently. He said 
theyve since had a successful valuation for another mortgage application and provided a 
copy of the report. Mr H said hed been unable to complain directly to the valuer as the 
instruction was made by the Society. He said he might take the matter to court or to RICS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are entitled to ask for a valuation of the security property to assist them in making a 
lending decision. Wed expect lenders to instruct a suitably qualified person, which was the 
case here.
The valuer said the property wasnt suitable security. Mr H responded to the valuers report, 
explaining why he disagreed and providing documents to support what he said. The Society 
took Mr Hs comments into account and discussed them with the valuer and internally. Some 
of the issues raised by the valuer were resolved. The Society accepts there were errors or 
assumptions made by the valuer which were corrected when Mr H provided further 
documents or information. But these errors, while frustrating for Mr and Mrs H, didnt affect 
the outcome of the valuation. 
The valuer didnt change her view that the property wasnt suitable security. She didnt think 
the costings or drawings were appropriate for a project of this nature and scale, she was 
concerned about timescales and how the low cost estimate might affect the quality of the 
finish. Another, more senior, valuer reviewed the matter and agreed that the costings werent 
sufficient and also expressed concern about the effect on the quality of the finish and the 
anticipated timescale. 
Having said the property wasnt suitable security the valuer gave it a nil value. Thats not 
unusual for a valuation of this type, which is only for lending purposes. Im sorry Mr and 
Mrs H were upset by the nil value, but the Society did explain this to them.
The Society confirmed that it does accept mortgage applications for barn conversions, and 
this isnt the reason it declined to lend. It declined to lend because the valuer it instructed 
said the property wasnt suitable security.
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs disappointment. But I cant see that the Society made an error 
or treated them unfairly. I think it was reasonable for the Society to instruct the valuation and 
to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer as to whether the property was suitable security. It 
follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to refund 
the valuation fee. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman