DRN-4260161
The complaint
Mrs M, who is represented by her husband, complains she couldnt access her funds for a 
considerable period following National Savings and Investments implementation of strong 
customer authentication.
What happened
Mrs M has held a cash ISA with National Savings and Investments for many years. Her 
husband has told us that shes hearing impaired and doesnt own a mobile phone.
Mrs Ms husband has told us that Mrs M started having problems accessing her cash ISA in 
August 2022 after National Savings and Investments had made changes to its processes in 
order to implement strong customer authentication. Mrs M complained.
National Savings and Investments looked into Mrs Ms complaint and sent several 
(inconsistent) responses. Mrs M was unhappy with National Savings and Investments and 
so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ms complaint and said that although it wasnt 
unreasonable of National Savings and Investments to make changes to its processes, its 
responses had been inconsistent. For example, at one stage National Savings and 
Investments told Mrs M that she needed a mobile phone in order to receive one-time 
passcodes so she could log onto her account when, in fact, one-time passcodes could also 
be sent to a landline. Our investigator didnt think National Savings and Investments had 
done enough for Mrs M between August 2022 and October 2022, but from October 2022 
onwards our investigator thought that it had offered Mrs M alternative ways of authenticating 
and had also offered to re-open her ISA and backdate the tax-free status of her account  
shed moved her funds out of the ISA. And they awarded an additional £100 on top of the 
£205 National Savings and Investments had already paid.
National Savings and Investments accepted our investigators recommendations. Mrs M 
didnt. She said she hadnt moved her funds back as shed only been given 20 days to 
consider this and that the compensation didnt put things right given all the worry shed been 
through. Mrs Ms husband told us that National Savings and Investments should, amongst 
other things, acknowledge that it had had an IT meltdown and that its executive team ought 
to respond saying what action they were taking to put matters right. Mrs Ms complaint was, 
in the circumstances, referred to an ombudsman for a decision. Her complaint was, as a 
result, passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs Ms husband feels very passionately that something has gone badly 
wrong at National Savings and Investments and that it needs to acknowledge this publicly. 
Im satisfied that our investigator has already explained our role  to look at complaints 
individually and to look at complaints from eligible consumers  so Im not going to repeat 
what theyve said here. Im looking solely at Mrs Ms complaint. Before doing so, its worth 
explaining a bit about strong customer authentication.
background
NS&I has told us that it made changes in July 2022 to the way its customers log into their 
online account. NS&I has told us that its customers now need to enter a six-digit one-time 
passcode  which are sent by text message or an automated call  when they first log into 
their account and each time they log in from a different browser. NS&I has told us that it 
made these changes in order to implement new regulations that came into effect in 
September 2019  namely the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These 
regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer 
authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in
Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with 
the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The changes that NS&I made to its processes  and the way they were implemented  are at the heart of this complaint.
NS&Is approach to implementing strong customer authentication
NS&I has said that it made changes to its processes in order to implement strong customer 
authentication  and that the changes were important measures designed to combat fraud. 
In addition, NS&I has said that its provided several alternative ways of authenticating, 
including sending one-time passcodes to landlines  an option that would have worked for 
Mrs M from October 2022 onwards.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations, and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people in areas with limited mobile 
reception. The FCA has talked, for example, about managing the potentially negative impact 
of strong customer authentication on different groups of customers particularly the 
vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or located in areas with limited digital access. And the 
FCA has also talked about the need for firms to develop strong customer authentication 
solutions that work for all groups of consumers and has said that this means they may 
need to provide several different authentication methods for your customers.
The FCAs guidance is, in my view, aimed principally at current accounts and savings 
accounts that customers can reasonably expect to be able to access easily and quickly. In 
this case Im dealing with an ISA where that isnt necessarily the case. Thats something  
along with the regulations and guidance, amongst other things  that I have to take into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should NS&I have done more for Mrs M when she originally complained?
I dont think anyone is disputing that National Savings and Investments could have done 
more for Mrs M when she complained in August 2022. And that its responses between August 2022 and October 2022 were inconsistent. In the circumstances, I can understand 
that Mrs M was having second thoughts about leaving her substantial investment with 
National Savings and Investments. I can, therefore, also understand why she moved her 
money. I do, however, agree with our investigator that National Savings and Investments 
offered to re-open her account and backdate it once viable alternatives were in place. More 
importantly, I think that offer  including a period within which to accept it  was reasonable. 
Mrs M decided not to take up the offer  which is her right  but I agree it means she hasnt 
mitigated losses shes now claiming.
I also agree that National Savings and Investments responses  particularly about Mrs M 
needing a mobile phone when it knew she didnt own one due to disability  were poor. But I 
agree the compensation our investigator has recommended is a fair outcome having taken 
the impact on Mrs M into account.
Putting things right
Given what Ive just said, Im going to require National Savings and Investments to pay an 
additional £100 to Mrs M in compensation on top of the £205 it has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint in part and requiring National Savings 
and Investments to pay an additional £100 to Mrs M in compensation on top of the £205 it 
has already paid. This additional payment is in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman