DRN-2948245
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) caused him distress and 
financial hardship by blocking his account for several months. He feels their motives for 
doing so were racist in nature.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr N is unhappy because Nationwide refused to allow him to 
withdraw £3,000 for a trip he was taking to Iran and subsequently blocked his account on 
9 November 2018. He submits that the cashier was racist towards him after learning that he 
was born in Iran. 
Nationwide subsequently unblocked Mr Ns account over four months later on 29 March 
2019 following a letter from Mr Ns MP and information regarding the origin of funds received 
in his account, at which point they offered him £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. However, Mr N did not consider this to be proportionate as he submits they should 
pay him £70,000 compensation. 
Our investigator explained that we would not direct Nationwide to pay the level of 
compensation he was expecting, but she did think that additional compensation was 
warranted, so she upheld the complaint and awarded an additional £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. However, Mr N disagreed with this, so the matter has been escalated 
to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr N is unhappy that Nationwide placed a block on his account. The bank 
has explained that there were several large credits made into Mr Ns account not long after it 
had been opened, so they placed a block on the account in line with their security 
procedures while they looked into the origin of the payments. I dont think this was 
unreasonable, as banks are obliged to take such measures to comply with anti-money 
laundering regulations, for example, if the origin of funds received into an account isnt clear. 
However, I do appreciate that Nationwide could have handled the situation a lot more 
effectively, and they have acknowledged that their team at their head office did not follow the 
correct procedure when they initially reviewed Mr Ns account. Theyve said they should 
have contacted him as soon as the credits were received so that he could explain the 
situation and provide any necessary evidence as soon as possible. Instead, Nationwide 
delayed asking Mr N to provide evidence of the origin of his funds when he was overseas 
and had no access to physical paperwork and statements etc., which ultimately led to his 
account being blocked for a lot longer than it needed to be. Nationwide has also explained 
that Mr N could have still credited his account even if it was still blocked, which would have 
allowed him to meet his direct debit obligations. However, theres nothing to suggest that the 
bank ever informed him that he could do this. 
Nationwide made a payment of £400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their errors. But Mr N does not consider this to be commensurate to the 
experience he has had. He has described the impact that Nationwides actions have had on 
him:
He had to fly to Iran with no money to care for his sick mother, which caused great 
distress.
Despite assurances that his account would be unblocked in five days, it remained 
blocked and he had to contact Nationwide more than 20 times across 5 months in an 
attempt to access his bank account and funds. 
He was unable to pay his direct debits for bills such as his mortgage payment, 
council tax and other utilities. 
He couldnt renew his tax license due to his account being blocked which ultimately 
led to him losing his job, causing him to fall into £50,000 worth of debt.
He has explained that the experience left him feeling depressed, and that he also 
experienced heart problems while he was away and had to go into hospital in Tehran 
for 45 days. 
Mr N submits that Nationwide should pay £70,000 compensation as a result of their errors 
and the impact it had on him. But I want to make it clear to Mr N that our service does not 
award significant sums of compensation of this kind. 
The power to make an award of compensation is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for 
distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. Ive 
considered the service Mr N received, and its clear he has been left considerably upset and 
distressed by the way he has been dealt with by Nationwide, so I do agree that further 
compensation is warranted as Im not persuaded that £400 is proportionate in these 
circumstances.
Our investigator recommended a further £350 compensation, making an award of £750 in 
total, which I consider to be a fairer reflection of the impact Nationwides errors had on Mr N. 
I appreciate that he still doesnt consider this to be commensurate to the experience he has 
had. But in terms of the levels of compensation typically awarded by this service, this 
amount would already be considered a substantial level of compensation. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mr N, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Nationwide have had a much more severe impact on his life, which Im not persuaded it has 
in these circumstances.
Mr N says he was racially discriminated against by the Nationwide cashier because he says 
her attitude changed towards him after he provided his identification that disclosed his place 
of birth. I appreciate it would have been upsetting for Mr N to feel that he was being treated 
differently simply because of where he was born. But while I understand he considers the 
cashier to have treated him unfairly, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to suggest 
that he was treated any differently from any other customer in the same circumstances as a 
result of his race. Nationwide have explained that they requested Mr Ns identification as this 
is part of their standard procedures in verifying their customers. And while I appreciate his 
account was subsequently blocked, I do not think there is anything to suggest this was a result of racial discrimination rather than Nationwide following their security protocols to 
verify the provenance of certain payments.  
I also understand that Mr N was unable to meet his direct debits and pay for financial 
obligations such as his taxi licence. But I can see that he had withdrawn around £7,000 from 
his Nationwide account prior to it being blocked, meaning there was only around £879.84 left 
in his account. And while I appreciate this is still a substantial amount of money, Im not 
persuaded it was the only funds he had recourse to as he had made some substantial 
withdrawals and transfers prior to the account being blocked. 
I also have to take into account the fact that Mr N was aware that his account had been 
blocked and so could have made alternative arrangements to pay any bills or debts as they 
fell due, rather than letting them bounce from his account. So I dont think Nationwide can be 
held fully responsible for all the losses he is claiming (such as his loss of job and debts he 
has accrued as a result) as it seems more couldve been done by Mr N to mitigate these 
losses. But I note that Nationwide has agreed to refund any charges that were applied to the 
account as a result of his direct debits bouncing from his account, which I consider to be a 
fair resolution here.
Mr N also says that he was admitted to hospital for heart problems while he was in Iran, and 
that this matter has also caused him depression. Im sorry to hear of the health problems he 
has been going through, and I appreciate this must have been a difficult time for him. But 
Ive not seen any independent medical evidence to suggest that it was Nationwides errors 
that were the proximate cause of his health problems over and above anything else, so I 
dont consider it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold the bank liable for this either. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, who clearly feels very strongly about 
his complaint. But Im satisfied that an award of £750 is fair compensation in these 
circumstances for the distress and inconvenience that can fairly and reasonably be attributed 
to Nationwides acts and omissions.     
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society 
to pay a total of £750 compensation (including the £400 they have already offered) in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr N should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr N and Nationwide as to whether their offer of 
compensation still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on 
the offeror after rejection of it has been communicated. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman