DRN-1959059
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank mis-sold 
him a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card.
What happened
Mr C took out a Tesco credit card in 2000 by post. At the same time he was sold a PPI 
policy, which wouldve covered 10% of his monthly repayments for up to 12 months per 
successful claim for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because he had a pre-existing 
medical condition (PEMC) at the time of sale. The adjudicator didnt think the restrictive 
terms relating to PEMCs were adequately drawn to Mr Cs attention. Had they been 
brought to Mr Cs attention, the adjudicator didnt think he wouldve taken the policy.
Tesco disagreed. It didnt think, in summary, there was enough evidence to conclude      
Mr Cs PEMC would have put him off taking out the policy. This was because he said he 
hadnt had to take time off work because of it and it was being managed by medication. 
So, Mr Cs complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Tesco was under a duty to provide Mr C with information on PPI in a clear, fair and 
non-misleading way so he could make an informed choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy. To make an informed choice, Mr C needed to understand the 
costs and benefits of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and limitations of the policy.
Mr C had an ongoing medical condition at the time of sale. Although at the time of sale Mr C 
says he hadnt had any time off work because of it, Im satisfied the condition was one that 
could possibly change over time, potentially leading to Mr C having to take time off work in 
the future.
As Mr C wouldnt have been covered under the policy for his PEMC, I think being aware 
of this exclusion wouldve mattered to Mr C because he wouldnt have been able to 
make a successful claim for time off work related to his condition. I dont think hed have 
taken the policy if things were made clearer and he understood this. I say this because I 
dont think hed have considered the policy worth it to him in these circumstances..
So, I think Mr C has lost out financially because Tesco didnt make the exclusions 
relating to PEMCs clear to him. Because of this I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
what Tesco should do to put things right 
Tesco should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
If Mr Cs Tesco credit card account is closed
If Mr C has already closed his credit card account Tesco should do the following:
A: Tesco should find out how much Mr C would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. It can also deduct any commission refund it has 
already paid.
B. Tesco should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr C would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C .If  when Tesco works out what Mr C would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
C paid more than enough to clear his balance, Tesco should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C 
wouldve owed Tesco something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D. Tesco should tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr Cs Tesco credit card account is still open
I dont know if Mr Cs credit card accounts still open. So, if it is:
A. Tesco should find out how much Mr C would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest 
charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. Tesco should then 
refund the difference between what Mr C owes and what he wouldve owed. If Mr C made a 
successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what he got for the claim from the 
amount it owes him. It can also deduct any commission refund it has already paid. B. If  when Tesco works out what Mr C wouldve owed each month without PPI  Mr C paid 
more than enough to clear his balance, Tesco should also pay simple interest on the extra 
Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C wouldve owed 
Tesco something on his card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. Tesco should tell Mr C what its done to work out A and B. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as 
Tesco Bank must put things right as I have set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman