DRN-4173533
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a vehicle he acquired under a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr E entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a used 
vehicle costing £13,194.00. The vehicle was approximately five years old and had an 
odometer reading in the region of 73,000 miles.
Under the terms of the conditional sale agreement, everything else being equal, Mr E 
undertook to make an advance payment of £2,199.00 followed by 41 monthly payments of 
£438.38  making a total repayable of £20,172.58 at an APR of 35.9%.
Mr E says:
On taking delivery of the vehicle, he noticed a headlight wasnt working and the 
vehicle had been fitted with a speed limiter.
Shortly after taking delivery of the vehicle, it went into limp mode, the check engine 
light illuminated, black smoke was being emitted from the exhaust and the coolant 
was leaking.
The vehicle was returned to the supplying dealership who then returned it back to 
him some two weeks later. Mr E says the supplying dealership confirmed to him that 
it was unable to remove the speed limiter, but all the other issues had been fixed.
Shortly after the vehicle had been returned to him he noticed the headlight hadnt 
been fixed, black smoke was still being emitted from the exhaust and the coolant was 
still leaking.
In early May 2022 the vehicle went into limp mode, the exhaust temperature sensor 
failed, black smoke was being emitted from the exhaust and the coolant was leaking.
In mid to late May 2022 the vehicle was returned to the supplying dealership.
In early June 2022 the vehicle was returned to him, but black smoke was still being 
emitted from the exhaust and the coolant was still leaking.
In late July 2022 the vehicle broke down.
In early August 2022 the vehicle was taken to a third party garage approved by his 
vehicle warranty company.
The third party garage carried out various works, some of which was covered under 
warranty and some which wasnt.
In early November 2022 the vehicle broke down and was uplifted to a garage. The 
recovery agent identified a possible blown head gasket, loss of oil pressure and a 
lack of coolant.
In November 2022 Mr E complained to Moneybarn about the quality of the vehicle and to 
say that he should be able to reject it and that he should be financially compensated.
In March 2023 Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the vehicle to be 
carried out. At this point in time the vehicle had a recorded mileage of approximately 94,000.
For various reasons the report produced following the above inspection is limited, but it does 
say that: The vehicle has been in service for approximately 9 months and covered a total of
approximately 21,000 miles. As the vehicle has covered sufficient enough mileage for the
faults to have developed within that period. As such, we would not consider any reported
faults with the vehicle to be present or developing at the point of inception and the selling
agents have no further responsibilities.
Following receipt of the above report Moneybarn wrote to Mr E to say that it considered the 
(quality) issues he had raised to be the result of wear and tear and therefore it wasnt 
upholding his complaint.
Mr Es complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that there 
was insufficient evidence that the (quality) issues raised by Mr E were down to anything 
other than wear and tear.
Mr E didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr E has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr E will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr E acquired a used vehicle through the conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn.
Moneybarn is the owner of the vehicle, until such time as Mr E makes all the repayments 
under the conditional sale agreement. As owner, Moneybarn is also the supplier of the 
vehicle and as such its responsible for the quality of the vehicle at the point it was supplied. 
This is because the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) implies a term around satisfactory quality 
into the conditional sale agreement and the vehicle should therefore be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to Mr E.I think its important to note that Moneybarns obligations around the quality of the vehicle 
apply to the time of supply. They dont apply to the general upkeep and maintenance, 
servicing or more general faults and repairs that are often required with vehicles as they age 
and increase in mileage. When considering whether goods are of satisfactory quality a 
number of things would usually be considered. In this instance, when considering the quality 
of a vehicle, the age and mileage of the vehicle at the time it was supplied are in my view 
key considerations. So, for example, a brand new vehicle would have different expectations 
to a used and considerably cheaper vehicle. Those expectations would therefore be lower in 
a used or older higher mileage vehicle, when compared to a new vehicle.
In this instance Mr E was acquiring a used vehicle that was around five years old and had 
travelled in the region of 73,000 miles. As already mentioned above, a vehicle of this age 
and mileage wouldnt be expected to be in the same condition as a brand new vehicle, which 
would have cost considerably more than the price Mr E paid. Considering the age and 
mileage here it wouldnt be unreasonable to expect the vehicle to be showing some signs of 
wear and tear. This would be in relation to its general overall appearance but also the 
underlying components, such as (but not restricted to, the head and exhaust system.
Mr E says he experienced a number of issues with the vehicle resulting in him having to take 
it to the supplying dealership on two occasions and to a third party garage approved by his 
vehicle warranty company on an another. But unfortunately for Mr E there is simply 
insufficient evidence for me to be able to conclude that the issues he says he was 
experiencing with the vehicle, and which resulted in him taking it to the original supplying 
dealership (on two occasions) and to a third party garage (on an another), made the vehicle 
of unsatisfactory quality when supplied, or that the issues werent successfully repaired. Ive 
also seen nothing that would suggest that Mr E didnt agree to an inspection of the vehicle 
and repairs to it on each of these three occasions.
However, the most significant issues here are the ones that occurred in November 2022, 
which according to the recovery agent was a possible blown head gasket, loss of oil 
pressure and a lack of coolant. Now I dont dispute the existence of these issues, but these 
need to be considered against the inspection (and report) commissioned by Moneybarn and 
the fact that that these issues manifested themselves nine months or so after Mr E acquired 
the vehicle and after he had added in the region of 21,000 miles to the odometer.
And having considered everything that as been said and submitted by both parties I can 
confirm that Im satisfied that the November 2022 issues with the vehicle are, more likely 
than not, as a result of Mr E adding 21,000 miles to the odometer over a nine month period 
rather than as a result of the vehicle being of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Finally, I can see that Mr E says he was never advised the vehicle came fitted with a speed 
limiter. But equally Mr E has provided no evidence that he was advised that it came without 
one. So, unfortunately, I cant reasonably conclude the vehicle was misrepresented to Mr E. 
Furthermore, the vehicle being fitted with a speed limiter wouldnt, in my view, have made it 
of unsatisfactory quality so the fact that Mr E says the supplying dealership was unable to 
remove it isnt something I can hold Moneybarn liable for.
While I can appreciate it will be disappointing that things have gone wrong with the vehicle 
and Mr E faces a potentially significant repair bill to fix it (assuming of course a repair is 
economical), this isnt something that I consider Moneybarn to be responsible for.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman