DRN-2240352
The complaint
Mr K complained because Monzo Bank Ltd didnt agree that transactions on his account had 
been fraudulently carried out by a third party.
Mr K wants a refund of £1,674.30, compensation and interest.
What happened
On 29 April 2020, there were multiple transactions on Mr Ks Monzo account. At the start of 
the day, Mr K had a nil balance. 
At around 10.30am, there was then a £4 credit from a person Ill call A. This was followed by 
three withdrawals, to two new payees. One was to person A, and the other two to a person 
Ill call B. This left 70p in the account.
At 1.58 pm, there was an incoming credit of £1,673.13. In the next two minutes, there were 
five payments out of Mr Ks account. Two of these went to person A and three to person B. 
This left £2.86 in the account.
Within an hour, Mr K contacted Monzo by chat to dispute payments. At the same time on 
chat, another caller appeared to be on Mr Ks chat with Monzo, saying the payments werent 
disputed. Mr K said that someone was sending messages on his account and had taken his 
money.
Monzo secured the account and referred the chat to its internal specialist team. 
Mr K said no-one had access to his phone, and he hadnt shared his login details or PIN with 
anyone. He said hed been expecting the £1,673.16 credit for something hed sold, but the 
withdrawals had been fraudulent.
 
But Monzo told Mr K that it didnt believe that access to the account had been set up by 
anyone else. And it also didnt believe that the funds transferred out were a fraudulent action 
so it wouldnt be refunding Mr K.
Monzo took the decision to close Mr Ks account and stop providing him with banking 
services.
Mr K complained about the decision not to treat the withdrawals as fraudulent. He also 
complained that Monzo hadnt offered him emergency credit during the investigation, and 
said hed been told he could use chat to contact Monzo when his account was closed, which 
hadnt been accurate.
In its final response, Monzo agreed that Mr K had wrongly been told he could access chat 
after the account closure. But it said its investigation had been thorough and had reached 
the right conclusion. Monzo said it didnt offer emergency credits during investigations. It 
also answered three further questions Mr K had raised, including whether Monzo was aware 
that someone had accessed his account from a different device, as hed told Monzo on the 
29 April chat. Monzo offered Mr K £50 compensation for the incorrect information and delay 
in answering his three further questions.
Mr K wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She explained that to log into Mr Ks Monzo 
account, Monzo would send a login link to Mr Ks registered email address. From what Mr K 
told the investigator, this was what had happened. Mr K had said that he hadnt accessed his 
email address from a shared computer, and nor had he written down or shared his login 
information.
The investigator accepted that email addresses can be hacked, and went on to look at how 
the disputed transactions had been made. The correct PIN had been used, and Mr K had 
said he hadnt written down, shared or electronically stored the PIN. So the investigator 
considered that either Mr K had carried out the transactions himself, or hed given someone 
else permission.
The investigator also said that the person who had sent the £1,673.16 payment to Mr Ks 
account had complained through their bank, and their bank had tried to recall the money. But 
by then the money had gone from Mr Ks account. The investigator said this meant that even 
if Monzo had recalled the five transfers which had left Mr Ks account, the investigator 
wouldnt have recommended the money to be refunded to Mr K.
Mr K wasnt satisfied. He said someone had accessed his Monzo account from a different 
device, and his email address had been hacked. He said that if the person who had sent him 
the £1,673.16 was disputing what theyd sent, that was a different complaint altogether. He 
said there was nothing to show hed authorised the transactions.
Mr K also said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines said that the use of a 
correct PIN wasnt conclusive proof that someone had authorised a payment. He asked for 
an ombudsman decision. He said he wanted the ombudsman to consider the £4 credit as 
hed told Monzo hed received a payment he hadnt expected. He said an unknown phone 
had taken over his account and transferred the money out. And Monzo couldnt prove that 
he had authorised the transactions himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulations for the five disputed transactions taking place on  29 April 2020 are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Monzo) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, the 
disputed payments were made using the correct PIN. This followed the new payees having 
been set up using login details sent to Mr Ks registered email address. So the payments 
were, technically, authenticated.
The regulations also say that its then necessary to look at whether the account holder 
authorised the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise 
the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. Mr K argued that Monzo couldnt conclusively prove he authorised the transactions himself. 
And hes pointed out that the FCA guidance says that the payment service provider cant just 
say that the use of a PIN proved the account holder authorised the payments.
But there isnt always conclusive proof of disputed matters, and where there are opposing 
versions of what happened, I make my decision on whats most likely to have happened. 
Thats what Ive done here, having considered the evidence that is available.
Mr Ks PIN was used, but it was only one of the factors which led Monzo to believe that the 
transactions hadnt been carried out by a fraudulent third party. So I dont agree that Monzo 
refused a refund solely because Mr Ks correct PIN was used. Ive seen Monzos 
explanations and evidence and accept them. But it wouldnt be right for me to include them 
in this decision, because Monzo has asked us to treat the information confidentially, and its 
entitled to do that.
I can, however, point to some of the factors as well as the PIN being used correctly. For 
example, theres no obvious point of compromise either for Mr Ks registered phone or 
registered email, given that he said no-one had access to his phone, and he hadnt shared, 
written down or electronically stored either his PIN or his login details. 
Also, Mr K had logged in using his phone about half an hour after the initial £4 credit and 
withdrawals. Monzo sends notifications of activity. Even if these notifications had been 
turned off, I find it surprising that Mr K didnt notice the £4 credit, new payees, and outgoing 
payments at that point. Mr K asked me to look at the chat recording to show he mentioned 
the £4 credit. Ive done so, and theres a record of him raising that later, but not on 29 April.
Finally, I understand Mr Ks argument that the fact that its a different issue about whether 
the incoming £1,674.30 payment had been fraudulently obtained into Mr Ks account. Its not 
conclusive that the sender raised a fraud complaint with their bank straightaway, but its 
suspicious that the funds were removed from Mr Ks account within two minutes of the credit, 
leaving almost no money in the account again. So this is one further factor in determining 
what on the balance of probabilities what is most likely to have happened here in respect of 
this complaint. 
For these reasons, and because of other confidential information from Monzo, I find that its 
most likely that Mr K carried out the withdrawal transactions himself, and/or joined with other 
people in arranging what happened. So I find that Monzo was justified in refusing to refund 
Mr K for the transactions he disputed, and was also justified in closing his account, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.
Finally, I consider that the £50 which Monzo offered Mr K for the incorrect information about 
whether he could use chat after the account closure, and delay in answering his three 
additional questions, was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman