DRN-3314377
The complaint
Miss B complains about some loans she got from TSB Bank plc (TSB).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 27 January 2022. I gave both parties the 
chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider by 10 February 2022. I 
have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
In June 2019, Miss B took out a loan through TSB for £4,000. The interest rate on the loan
was 23.4% APR, due to be repaid over 48 months at a monthly repayment amount of
£124.40.
Just over a month later in July 2019, Miss B applied online for another loan through TSB.
This time, Miss B wanted to borrow £10,085.40. She said with this loan, she wanted to repay
the existing loan, and have additional funds to get her back on track after her personal
circumstances changed. TSB approved the loan at a rate of 15.9% APR, to be repaid over
60 months at a repayment amount of £239.35.
Almost immediately after taking the loan, Miss B realised that she wouldnt be able to afford
the monthly repayment amount. And she also decided that she didnt need all of the capital
shed taken. Because of this, she repaid £3,000 to the loan, and asked TSB to reduce the
monthly repayment amount to reflect the lesser balance on the account.
TSB said they couldnt do this. It said that any additional repayment made towards the loan
account would reduce the loan balance, but it wouldnt reduce the monthly repayment
amount. It would just mean that less interest would be charged and the loan would be repaid
sooner than the initial term detailed in the agreement.
Miss B then attempted to refinance this loan into a new one to reflect the new balance of the
loan and to reduce the amount shed have to repay monthly. But TSB couldnt do this. It said
that there had been an IT issue which meant that it couldnt refinance Miss Bs loan. Leaving
her with the current loan and a monthly repayment amount of £239.35.
Miss B said that shes had many issues trying to sort this out. She has spoken to lots of
people at TSB to try and get help. And she has continuously been told that it would refinance
the loan to make it more affordable to her and then this didnt happen.
TSB sent a final response to Miss B in October 2019. This response covered off the issues
Miss B had in refinancing the loan. TSB offered to pay £150 for any distress and
inconvenience it caused her.
Another two attempts were made after this final response to refinance Miss Bs loan, and 
again these attempts were unsuccessful. TSB paid Miss B an additional £160 for distress
and inconvenience and paid £43 to compensate her for call costs and travel expenses. TSB 
also re-aged Miss Bs loan account to remove the arrears and amended her credit file. It
provided her with an additional £118 which was the difference between what her loan
repayment was and repayment amount for the new refinanced loan (which didnt go ahead).
However, Miss B still remains unhappy that TSB has not been able to refinance her loan,
and has left her with a loan that isnt affordable to her.
Miss B has told this service about the severe impact this loan has had on her. She has spent
a lot of time initially trying to resolve things. She says it has caused her a lot of stress. And
the impact of the loan on her credit file could potentially affect her job.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. He let her know that this service wouldnt be
able to look into the issues that TSB covered off in its final response from October 2019,
because she had referred these matters to this service outside of the time limits that apply. It
seems that this was accepted by Miss B.
The investigator then looked into the other issues. He essentially found that Miss Bs
complaint stems from TSBs decision to provide Miss B with the loans. He didnt think that
either loan was affordable to Miss B, and so TSB should refund any interest and charges
that have been applied to the loan and it should remove any adverse information it has
reported to the credit reference agencies about the loans. Miss B accepted this, but TSB
didnt.
Because TSB dont agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my current intention to uphold Miss Bs complaint in part.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. A lot has happened in the course of this
complaint and Ive purposefully tried to keep the background to this complaint as brief as
possible. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this provisional decision its not
because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This
isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in
deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary
to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to
the crux of the complaint.
Clearly this situation has been very difficult and stressful for Miss B. And at the moment, I
dont find that TSB have been as helpful as they could have been in trying to resolve things.
While the initial complaint that Miss B brought to this service was the issue of not being able
to refinance her loan  essentially, the issue with the refinancing has only come about
because of TSBs decision to lend to her in the first place. So, I think its important to
consider this before anything else. I appreciate TSBs comments in that Miss B hasnt raised
a complaint about the affordability in relation to the first loan, but I think this complaint does
stem from this initial lending. So I will also look to see how this loan was granted.
Our investigator has already explained the rules, and what is required of a business, like
TSB, to do before it lends to a customer. So I dont intend to go over these again in much
detail in this provisional decision. But essentially, and amongst other things, the rules say
that a lender must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that a customer
can repay the debt in a sustainable way. The checks must be borrower focussed, which
means it needs to take into account the customers overall situation, and not just determinethe likelihood of the lender being able to get their money back.
Reasonable and proportionate checks arent defined in the rules, but the rules do state what
types of things a business should consider  for example, the type of credit, the amount of
credit etc. And we generally take the view that these checks ought to take into account the
customers personal circumstances  for example, income, amount of lending elsewhere etc.
What this means is that TSB needed to check that Miss B would be able to afford to repay
the debt it was planning on giving her  in a sustainable way, while taking into account things
like her income, expenditure and the lending she already had elsewhere.
There are three overarching questions that I need to consider when making a fair and
reasonable assessment as to the affordability of these loans. And these are:
Did TSB carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
Bearing in mind the circumstances was it the case that TSB ought reasonably to 
have realised it was increasing Miss Bs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did TSB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way? I have 
thought about these questions when coming to a fair outcome on this complaint.
Loan for £4,000 (loan 1)
Based on everything currently available to me, I dont think TSBs decision to lend to Miss B
on this occasion was a fair one  so I think that it likely the loan wasnt affordable to Miss B.
Ive looked at the application that Miss B completed for this loan. At the time, she said she
was earning £1,300 a month. She said she paid £600 a month in rent, and she paid around
£275 for child maintenance. The loan repayments were £124.40 for 48 months.
I dont currently think TSB did enough to check Miss B could sustainably repay the debt
before lending to her, and Ill explain why.
Miss B told TSB on the application that she wasnt paying anything in other household bills,
or for anything else at all (other than rent and child care), I think the fact that Miss B said she
said she wasnt paying anything at all, for example food, travel etc, ought to have made TSB
question the accuracy of the information provided by Miss B.
Had it done this, it would have been able to see that Miss B did have other outgoings  for
example I have seen direct debits for a mobile phone bill, council tax, insurance, credit card
repayments, tv licence and payments for other general living expenses  that shed
previously told TSB on the application that she didnt have. While I appreciate TSBs
comments, in that it should be able to take what the application says on face value, when the
information on the application is likely inaccurate, I would have expected it to have done
more to check this information with Miss B before agreeing to lend to her.
I can also see that Miss B had a credit card with a different lender at the time too. TSB would
likely have been aware of this from any credit check it would have completed on her. Again,
this would show that the information she put in the application wasnt accurate, because she
said that she wasnt paying anything towards credit cards at the time.
TSB has said that it wouldnt check bank statements before agreeing to lend to someone,
and while this might be the case, this doesnt mean that it couldnt or shouldnt. The
affordability information TSB has sent me, asks a question at the bottom: Confirmation thatall the information was checked against bank records (where applicable). Next to this, it
states No. Based on this, it seems that TSB can check this information against its bank
records, but a check wasnt carried out when it agreed to lend to Miss B.
So, at the moment, it seems to me that had TSB carried out borrower focussed checks, it
would have found that Miss Bs outgoings were in fact more than what shed stated on her
application form, and I cant agree that TSB did enough to check the information on the
application was correct.
If TSB had done more to check Miss Bs financial position, and had verified her outgoings, it
likely would have found that she would have had much less disposable income than the
application form would suggest.
Ive also taken on board what TSB has said about Miss B receiving benefits that she didnt
declare as income  TSB have suggested that Miss Bs income was more likely to be around
£1,525 per month, as opposed to the £1,300 she put on the application. I think TSB are
probably right here in that Miss B was getting more than she declared on the application.
The statements Ive seen show benefit payments, but they also show that Miss Bs income
wasnt consistent each month, with the April 2019 payment being less that shed put on her
application. However, I am still minded to agree with TSB that Miss Bs income was more
than what shed said it was.
Ive considered Miss Bs income (£1,525) less the childcare payments she said she made
(£275), less her rent (£600), less the regular payments leaving her account (£236) and less
the repayment for the loan (£124)  and after this, she would have had a disposable income
of around £290. This disposable income doesnt include any payments Miss B would likely
have been making for other general day to day living expenses, such as food, travel, clothes
etc.
With the above in mind, I dont think I can fairly say that TSB carried out borrower focussed
checks in ensure that Miss B could repay this loan in a sustainable way. And I think had it
done this, it would likely have found that Miss B would struggle to repay the loan without
causing her financial harm further down the line. It follows that I think TSB needs to do
something to put things right for Miss B.
Loan for £10,085 (loan 2)
Miss B took this loan out around a month after she took out the initial loan. She used this
loan to repay loan 1 and to have some additional money to help her with a change in her
personal circumstances. The loan was for £10,085.40, to be repaid over 60 months, with a
monthly repayment amount of £239.35.
Already, the fact that Miss B had applied for a second loan, more than double what she
wanted for the loan 1, only a month after the loan 1, would lead me to believe that there was
perhaps a negative change in Miss Bs financial position.
TSB have said that it didnt draw anything negative from this because it could have just been
that Miss B had taken out the first loan for the wrong amount and realised she needed more
capital. Regardless of the use of the loan, I would have expected TSB to carry out
proportionate checks here to ensure that Miss B could afford to repay the loan without it
having a negative impact on her financially  especially given the large increase in
borrowing. At the moment, I havent seen enough evidence that TSB carried out sufficient
checks, and I currently think its decision to lend more than £10,000 to Miss B has caused
her financial harm.Ive looked at the application information Miss B completed for the second loan. Its similar to
the first, in that Miss B has stated that she didnt have any outgoings other than her rent and
child maintenance/childcare payments.
Again, we know this not to be true. TSB has access to information that would have verified
this  for example her bank statements and the information on her credit file. Given the
additional level of borrowing Miss B had applied for, Id have expected TSB to have checked
these things before agreeing to lend to her. I think the fact that Miss B had said that she
didnt have any other outgoings at all - other than rent and child maintenance, ought to have
made TSB question the accuracy of the application.
Based on what Ive seen from Miss Bs current account statements, I dont think much had
changed regarding her financial position. For example, the regular payments leaving her
account dont appear to have increased or decreased dramatically, and her income
remained broadly the same. This is perhaps expected, given only one month had passed
since loan 1 had been granted.
Based on what Ive said, I think further checks would have indicated that Miss B couldnt
afford to repay the £239.35 a month loan repayment. And I think this became clear when
Miss B almost immediately struggled to repay what she borrowed. This figure is around
double what TSB had previously decided Miss B could afford in loan 1, and based on what
Ive seen so far, sufficient proportionate checks werent carried out to establish if this 50%
increase in repayments was affordable.
And so it follows, that I dont think TSB should have lent to Miss B on this occasion, and it
needs to do something to put things right for Miss B, which Ill go on to explain more below.
refinancing the loan
When Miss B realised she couldnt afford the repayments, and had borrowed more than she
needed, she repaid £3,000 back to the loan account  thinking that this would reduce the
monthly loan repayment. When Miss B found out that this wouldnt happen, she attempted to
refinance the loan.
Looking at everything thats happened since TSB issued its final response in October 2019, I
dont think it has treated Miss B fairly.
I can see Miss B was in contact with TSB in November 2019 to refinance the loan. Looking
at the notes provided by TSB it appears that initially, the refinanced loan was accepted but
then later, in December 2019, theres a note to say that the loan had failed to open due to an
unknown error.
I can see that another loan was discussed and agreed in February 2020. I can also see that
Miss B gave the documents to the branch, who didnt forward on the correct information,
which meant TSB had to send the information back to branch, and it asked Miss B to go
back to sign and resubmit. Then in April 2020, TSB again said that it had multiple system
issues which meant it couldnt refinance her loan.
I can only begin to imagine how frustrating this must have been for Miss B. To have gone
through months of worrying about how she was going to be able to afford to repay the loan,
to then be offered a solution by TSB, twice, only for it then to say that it couldnt help her
because of a system error.
I have taken on board TSBs comments, in that Miss B hasnt mitigated her circumstances
by not making any payments at all towards to the loan. And Im minded agreeing with this.However, I dont think that Miss B would have ended up in this situation had TSB lent to her
responsibly in the first place. And I can understand why Miss B might have buried her head
in the sand about the issue given that she wasnt getting the help she was led to believe she
could and would get.
That said, TSB has already paid Miss B £160 in distress and inconvenience, £43 in call
costs and travel, £181 to help her make her loan repayment and re-aged her loan account to
remove the arrears and updated her credit file to reflect this. While I agree that TSB could
have done more to help Miss B, I think what it has already paid her is enough to put things
right here.
Miss B responded to the provisional decision to say she was happy with the outcome. 
TSB responded, but it didnt agree with the provisional decision. And made the below main 
points:
Miss B started this process by making two separate applications for the loans.
Miss B has chosen not to pay anything towards the debt in the two and a half years 
she has had the loans.
It would like me to reconsider my view that it should remove the adverse information 
from Miss Bs credit file regarding the loans. It said that, had it not had system issues, 
it would have refinanced the loan. And Miss B would have likely defaulted on that 
agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision to uphold Miss Bs complaint  and 
broadly for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. However, I will provide 
answers to TSB main points listed above.
While Miss B might have proactively made the application for the loans, and so starting the 
process to borrow money herself, this doesnt mean that TSB should have lent to her. TSB 
has a responsibility to ensure that a person could afford to repay the borrowing before 
agreeing to lend. I have already explained in my provisional decision why I dont think it did 
this. 
In my provisional decision I referred to the fact that Miss B hadnt made repayments to the 
loan. Some of the reason she didnt initially do this is because she spent a long time 
communicating with TSB trying to refinance the loan, and so likely didnt make a payment 
while she was trying to arrange this. In addition, Miss B has admitted that she buried her 
head in the sand after she couldnt refinance the loan or afford the repayments. While this 
might not be an acceptable explanation as far as TSB is concerned, I can understand why 
she did this. She was faced with the burden of a large debt that she couldnt afford to repay. 
And had TSB carried out sufficient checks in the first place, she likely wouldnt have been in 
this position. 
I understand that TSB is keen for me to reconsider my view that it should remove the 
adverse information from Miss Bs credit file. It thinks that had it been able to refinance the 
loan, then Miss B wouldnt have repaid it anyway, and so the loan would have always gone into a default position. But TSB didnt refinance the loan. And I dont see the value in 
speculating what might have happened had it been able to do this. 
Ive already made a finding that both loans were unaffordable to Miss B, and so it is very 
possible she might have defaulted after the refinance. But I think my point here is that I dont 
think TSB should have given Miss B the loans in the first place. And had it done sufficient 
checks before agreeing to lend to her, it likely wouldnt have put her in a position where she 
was struggling to make repayments, and so avoiding any kind of default on her credit file. 
For this reason, I will still be asking TSB to remove all adverse credit information from Miss 
Bs file regarding these loans.
Having considered the points raised by TSB, I dont find that these change the findings I 
made in my provisional decision. And so, it is my decision that this complaint should be 
upheld and that TSB needs to put things right for Miss B. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that
wrong hadnt taken place. This would mean TSB putting Miss B in the position shed now be
in if she hadnt been given either loans 1 or 2. But when it comes to complaints about
irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Miss B was given the loans in question and
she used the funds  albeit in reality shes effectively used a proportion of what was
advanced to repay the previous loan. So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already
been done. And its simply not possible to put Miss B back in the position she would be in if
she hadnt been given either loan in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. Miss B did spend a
proportion of the funds she was provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss B had the use of
these funds and its the extra in interest and charges she paid thats her loss here.
So, in this case, this would involve TSB refunding all of the interest and charges
Miss B paid on loans 1 and 2. And removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs
credit file as a result of these loans.
With this in mind, TSB should:
Calculate the capital amount that Miss B has borrowed, and deduct any payments
Miss B has made to the loans from this figure.
Refund all interest, fees and charges Miss B paid, or has been added to her loan 
balances;
The refunded interest, fees and charges for the loans should be deducted from the 
outstanding balance.
Arrange an affordable way to repay the outstanding balance on the loan with Miss B.
Remove any adverse information from her credit file which relates to the loans.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to put 
things right for Miss B by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman