DRN-4388235
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have treated him unfairly which 
has resulted in them taking possession of his property. 
Mr P is being represented on this complaint.
What happened
Mr P has a mortgage with Halifax. He had fallen into arrears which were not reducing so a 
court order was issued on 18 October 2018 to take possession of the property. However the 
court order wasnt enforced, and Halifax agreed a payment arrangement with Mr P instead. 
Over the next four or so years, Mr P maintained his monthly payments and tried to reduce 
the arrears by making some payments towards those. The payment arrangement ended in 
March 2022, so Halifax started the collections process and started to send Mr P letters and 
contacted him by telephone to move matters forwards.
On 4 March 2022, Halifaxs Customer Financial Assistance (CFA) team sent Mr P a letter 
letting him know that they hadnt received his mortgage payment and he had to make up this 
payment before the next one was due in April 2022. A letter was sent to Mr P on 5 April 2022 
explaining that he had the option to consolidate the arrears on the mortgage as an option. 
A further letter was sent to Mr P on 25 April 2022 by the CFA team who let Mr P know that 
he hadnt kept in line with the terms and conditions of the possession order that was 
previously issued so they instructed solicitors to apply for an eviction date. They asked Mr P 
to contact them.
On 5 September 2022 the CFA team contacted Mr P again with the same information and 
asked him to contact them. As they didnt hear from him, they issued a letter on 10 October 
2022 informing Mr P that they had now instructed their solicitors to enforce the possession 
order. The direct debits which were set up to collect the contractual monthly payments 
(CMP) didnt go through for August, September, October and November 2022. This resulted 
in the arrears increasing from £5,523.98 to £8,062.21. By this point Mr P still hadnt made 
contact with Halifax so their solicitors were appointed in October 2022 to enforce the 
possession order. 
An eviction date was set for 14 November 2022, but this date didnt go ahead, and a new 
date was set for February 2023. 
Mr P said there was a problem with the direct debits, but he didnt notice this at first. He said 
he realised in November 2022, so he went into a branch of Halifax to rectify the issue and 
reinstate them.
Mr P said the branch staff couldnt help him, but they put him through to their mortgage 
servicing team (MST). Mr P said the adviser on the phone confirmed the direct debit had 
been cancelled but assured him they would reinstate it. But the MST team didnt make Mr P 
aware that an eviction date had been set - so Mr P said he just assumed everything was 
fine. 
Mr P said he didnt get any warning about the eviction notice and that he had the funds in his 
account for the months that he had missed the direct debits. He said due to his work 
commitments, he is away a lot, so he didnt know he had been evicted on 20 February 2023. 
He said he returned home from work and initially thought he had been burgled and didnt 
realise straight away that Halifax had enforced the possession order. Mr P said he was 
under the impression that since speaking to the adviser on the telephone in November 2022, 
who said they would reinstate the direct debit, that everything was fine.
Halifax said that when Mr P spoke to the MST in November 2022, they should have in fact of 
transferred him to the CFA team instead so that they could discuss the missed payments 
with him. But they said it was Mr Ps responsibility to keep up to date with the payments. 
Halifax also confirmed they did write to Mr P about the missed payments and the legal action 
they were taking. They accepted that they should have put him through to the correct team 
and that the adviser he spoke to on the telephone should have made him aware of the 
eviction date and the action to repossess, so they awarded Mr P £75 for the trouble and 
upset he was caused. 
Mr P wasnt happy with how Halifax had treated him, so he brought the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator thought that the action Halifax took was unfair. He said that Mr P had kept 
up to date with the payment arrangements that were set and had reduced the arrears up 
until August 2022  when the direct debits didnt go through. He didnt think that Halifax had 
done enough to understand why the payments didnt go through and didnt attempt to 
contact Mr P but instead, started legal proceedings. He said that Halifax didnt consider any 
forbearance or other options with Mr P and proceeded with eviction  which should be a last 
resort. And had Mr P been told when he spoke to the MST in November 2022 that an 
eviction date had been set or that legal proceedings had started, that Mr P could have 
discussed options with them. He thought it was unfair for Halifax to start legal proceedings 
when Mr P had been maintaining his contractual monthly payments until the direct debits 
stopped going through. And he didnt think they did enough to understand why and should 
not have proceeded with eviction. 
The investigator said that Halifax should make good any changes or damage to Mr Ps 
property as a result of the eviction  at their own expense and return the property to Mr P.  
He said Halifax should re-instate the direct debit and allow him to make up the payments 
that havent been collected since February 2023 and discuss a new arrangement with Mr P 
to repay the arrears in an affordable way  including those missed from 2022. 
The investigator also said that Halifax should remove all legal costs and fees charged in 
connection with the action taken in 2022 and 2023 including any interest charged on them. 
He also said that Halifax should re-imburse Mr P with accommodation and travel costs 
incurred as a result of him being evicted and pay him £2,500 for the trouble and upset he 
has been caused. 
Halifax didnt agree with our investigator. They provided us with evidence that they 
attempted to contact Mr P on several occasions to understand what was happening. They 
said a field agent had been sent to Mr Ps property on 15 September 2022 and a card was 
left to say that a visit had been attempted. 
Halifax also said they instructed a trace to be undertaken on 17 October 2022 and no new 
contact details for Mr P were available. They said the contact numbers provided to them by 
Mr P were either dead or temporarily out of service which isnt their fault. They said its 
concerning that Mr P says he didnt receive the letters they had sent to him including the 
hand delivered court correspondence and felt they had made every effort to let Mr P know of 
the current situation. They said Mr P knew he has missed mortgage payments and that a 
court order was in place and the court order is valid for six years so can be enforced at any 
time.  
Halifax said that a court had reviewed the conduct and status of Mr Ps mortgage in January 
2023 and issued an eviction order. They said that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
overruling a court order that was issued on 16 January 2023 granting Halifax possession of 
the property and do not agree that we have the remit to overrule a court.They confirmed that Mr P had continued to make his contractual mortgage payments until 
August 2022, but he knew the direct debits were not being collected and it would have been 
reasonable for Mr P to contact them to discuss it. Halifax agreed that Mr P should have been 
put through to the CFA team, but he also didnt ask to be transferred to them. 
The investigator responded to Halifax and asked them if they had made the court aware in 
January 2023 that Mr P was making his full monthly payments. Halifax responded and said 
the N325 form  which is a legal document used to request a Warrant of Possession of Land 
 only asked them to confirm the balance due. 
They said the information requested by court relates to the balance of the mortgage and not 
whether the customer is making their monthly payments. They said that Mr P wasnt 
maintaining the threshold payment amount (TPA), so he was not reducing or contributing to 
the arrears on the mortgage. 
They said the TPA amount is required in order to repay the arrears over the remaining term 
and Mr P didnt have an arrangement to make certain payments either as the previous 
arrangement had expired. They said if Mr P had engaged with them, they would have 
confirmed what the TPA amount would have been. They said based on lack of contact from 
Mr P  the right course of action had been taken. However, Halifax did say that in terms of 
relinquishment of the property, Mr P would need to be able to afford the TPA which is 
currently £837.29 in order to manage the mortgage and for them to hand the property back 
to him. Halifax still maintained no error had been made on their part. 
Our investigator went back to Halifax and confirmed that Mr P was in fact able to pay the 
TPA as he had been sent recent payslips which confirmed Mr Ps income. He also confirmed 
that DISP 3.3.4A (3) gives the Financial Ombudsman Service the discretion to dismiss a 
complaint where the subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court 
proceedings where there has been a decision on the merits. The investigator confirmed this 
is a discretion and its for us to decide whether its appropriate to consider the complaint 
where there has been court action. He explained in this case, Mr Ps complaint is that it 
wasnt fair for Halifax to evict him at a time when he was making his monthly payments and 
Halifax didnt make the court aware that he was doing so  therefore this was not a matter 
on which the court made a decision on the merits. 
Halifax responded and said they didnt agree that the Financial Ombudsman Service have 
the power to overrule a court when a repossession has been granted purely by assuming a 
judge would have reached a different conclusion had other information been submitted. They 
said this is for a court to consider upon appeal and is relevant to DISP 3.3.4 (B).
Halifax said they provided sufficient evidence in order to defend their right to refer to court 
and its for the court to make a ruling as they see fit. Halifax said they would still consider 
relinquishing the property if Mr P met their criteria. 
At this point, Mr P told our investigator that he wanted his property back but was also very 
unhappy that they kept him out of his property for several months and the impact that this 
has had on him. So if Halifax didnt agree to what our investigator had said, then he wanted 
this to be referred to an ombudsman to decide. 
Halifax also responded and said that after further consideration they are unable to 
commence the TPA as the basis for relinquishment of the property back to Mr P. They said 
there is set criteria that must be met for this and in order for them to do this, it must be in Mr 
Ps best interests. 
Halifax said there have been a number of recent interest rate rises which will impact the TPA 
as it stands currently and going forwards. Mr P hasnt been in a position to repay the arrears 
in full to date, even when the opportunity to avoid eviction was outlined in their solicitors 
letter dated 25 January 2023. So they said they have concerns about handing the property 
back with over £8,000 worth of arrears still outstanding with an increased CMP. They didnt feel it was in Mr Ps best interests as it could in fact prolong financial difficulties with a return 
to litigation and further costs at a later date. 
Halifax also asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As both parties 
disagreed, this has now been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 August 2023. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr P and Halifax have provided a lot of information about this complaint, and I know 
both parties feel very strongly about it. I can confirm I have read and understood the 
comments made in their entirety. I trust that Mr P and Halifax will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my 
conclusions and the reasons for reaching them. 
Having considered everything very carefully, I have come to the same outcome as 
the investigator on this case. Ill explain why. 
MCOB 13.3.2A says that possession proceedings should be a last resort and should 
only be taken where all other reasonable attempts to resolve the situation have 
failed. I dont think that Halifax have exhausted all attempts to try and understand 
what had happened in this case therefore I dont agree that enforcing the court order 
when they did, was reasonable. 
Halifax have said that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to 
overrule a court when a repossession has been granted purely by assuming a judge 
would have reached a different conclusion had other information been submitted. I 
am not in any way over-ruling what the court has decided, however what I am looking 
at here are the actions of Halifax and how they dealt with this situation. I dont think 
that enough has been done here to understand the situation surrounding the missed 
direct debits and my current thoughts are that repossession action should have been 
a last resort  as the mortgage rules say  and I dont think it was. This is what I am 
considering and not what the judge has decided. I understand that Mr Ps property 
hasnt been sold as a hold has been put in place until our service has decided this 
complaint. And I also note that at one point Halifax was considering relinquishing Mr 
Ps property and open to handing it back to him. These options are still open and a 
large part of my considerations. 
A court order was issued on 18 October 2018, but Halifax didnt enforce this. They 
agreed a payment arrangement with Mr P.
Mr P had a payment arrangement with Halifax which ended in March 2022. I can see 
up to this point he was making his CMP and paying a bit more off the arrears. 
Ive also seen a letter that was sent to Mr P by Halifax dated 5 April 2022 which 
acknowledged that Mr P had maintained his mortgage payments over the last six 
months (while being on the arrangement) and offered him the chance to consolidate 
the arrears on his mortgage. It doesnt appear that this happened and Im unsure why 
at this point, however, it was an option open to Mr P based on how he conducted his 
mortgage up until that point. 
Once this payment arrangement ended, Mr P was making his full CMP payments but 
wasnt contributing to the arrears  but he was paying what was expected against his 
CMP until the direct debits didnt go through in August, September, October and 
November 2022. Mr P has told us that he works away a lot, so he isnt around all the time. He said his 
partner was keeping an eye on his property. I have taken note that Halifax did send 
letters to Mr P and did try to contact him during this period, but they were unable to 
speak to him to find out what was going on. So I do understand why they may have 
had some concerns  but I still dont think that meant they should have enforced the 
possession order when they did. And even if they felt they had to because there was 
lack of contact by Mr P  there was a chance to rectify that when Mr P visited a 
branch of Halifax in November 2022. 
Mr P has told us he didnt realise straight away that his direct debits were not going 
through and once he did, he went into a local branch to find out what was going on. 
The branch staff couldnt help him, so they asked him to call the MST which he did. 
I have listened to this telephone call and Mr P was assured that the direct debit would 
be set up  but Mr P wasnt told that an eviction date had already been set for 14 
November  which later changed to February 2023. Mr P asked for confirmation that 
the direct debit had been set up on this call and he was assured that it had. He also 
asked the adviser to make a note that he had been in touch as he explained he had 
found it difficult to get through to them as he only has a short lunch break and found 
himself on hold for a long time whenever he tried to call. The adviser again reassured 
Mr P that he would do this. Halifax acknowledged that the MST should have 
transferred him to the CFA team because the mortgage account was in arrears  but 
they didnt. 
What happened in November is a key consideration to this complaint. While I 
understand that Halifax did try to contact Mr P about the arrears and the fact that 
they were enforcing the court order, its reasonable to suggest that Mr P wasnt 
aware of this. He didnt receive the letters and Halifax were unable to get through to 
him on the telephone. Its not Halifaxs fault that he didnt receive them and its not 
clear what happened here but listening to the telephone call its evident that Mr P 
didnt know that the eviction notice had been sent to him in October 2022. And on 
balance I strongly believe that had he of been told in November 2022 on the 
telephone call that an eviction date had been set, then I think that other options could 
and would have been discussed to avoid the situation going any further. 
Mr P ended that call in November 2022 thinking that everything had been sorted. And 
I can see that his direct debits went through for the full CMP in December 2022 and 
January 2023.  No payments went through after this date as Halifax didnt appear to 
collect them due to the eviction date  which is standard practice. 
I believe that had Mr P of been told about the eviction notice then I think its likely that 
he would have wanted to discuss it with someone to see what could be done about it. 
Halifax was aware of the pending eviction and had he of spoken to the right 
department, I would hope that they would have told him about it. But they didnt, and 
Mr P didnt know so I dont think its fair to say he could have asked to speak to the 
CFA team. As far as he was concerned, there was an issue with his direct debit, he 
called Halifax, which is what we would expect him to do, and this got resolved. Mr P 
therefore wasnt presented with the opportunity to do something about the pending 
eviction and Halifax didnt get the opportunity to speak to him to see what other 
arrangements could be made. 
Mr P was able to make his CMP each month and did so after the issue with his direct 
debit. And he had done so prior to that before the direct debits didnt go through. I am 
not persuaded that Mr P just didnt pay his mortgage as he wouldnt have contacted 
Halifax in November 2022 if that was his intention. 
Halifax had previously offered to consolidate the arrears which had accrued and had 
previously set up an arrangement to help Mr P pay off some of the arrears. So I think that other options would have been available to him had he of been given the chance 
and the opportunity to discuss them  so I think that Halifax have acted unfairly here 
by not telling him about the pending eviction notice when Mr P called. I therefore 
think it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed to evict Mr P at a time when he was 
making his full CMP and they didnt tell him about it when he called in November 
2022. 
I can see that Halifax were considering giving Mr P his property back but they have 
now said that they are unable to do this because they dont believe that Mr P can 
afford the TPA. They dont think its in his best interests as they believe that this 
situation will occur again, and they are just delaying the inevitable. I dont agree with 
this. 
I have seen Mr Ps recent payslips which confirm a reasonable salary which more 
than covers the CMP and think he would be able to cover some of the arrears. Mr P 
has also confirmed that he would be in a position to pay the payments that have also 
been missed  that Halifax didnt collect. I have seen Mr Ps bank statement which 
confirms he would be able to cover these payments. His savings statement from 
November 2022 shows that he had enough money to cover most of the payments 
missed and the most current statements I have seen show that Mr P is in a much 
better place with regards to how much money he has been able to save  than he 
was before. I see no reason to suggest that Mr P is unable to maintain the TPA 
required.  I therefore think that Halifax should give Mr P his property back and Ill 
explain below what they need to do to put things right for Mr P. 
Putting things right
I am minded to direct Halifax to give Mr P his property back and at their own 
expense, make good any changes or damage that has occurred to the property. I 
think its reasonable that they remove all legal, eviction, and any other fees or 
charges which have been added to the mortgage in connection with legal action 
taken in 2022 and 2023, including any interest which has been charged. 
Halifax should re-instate the direct debit and allow Mr P to make up the payments 
that have been missed on the mortgage since February 2023 either as a lump sum or 
an agreed monthly amount between him and Halifax. Halifax should also discuss a 
new arrangement with Mr P to collect the historic arrears in a way that is affordable to 
him. This should also include any missed payments from August, September, 
October and November 2022. Halifax should give proper consideration to the 
forbearance they can offer Mr P which may include capitalising the arrears. Mr P will 
need to ensure that he sticks to any arrangements that Halifax agree with him to 
ensure that things are moving forwards.
This situation has had a significant impact on Mr P. He has suffered financial loss for 
a number of reasons. He has had to appoint a representative to act on his behalf at a 
cost of £3,750.00. Mr P has also had to pay for accommodation due to having to stay 
in a hotel because of the eviction. These costs at the time that our investigator sent 
their opinion on the matter were £2,179.11 but these would have increased by now. 
So, Halifax will need to refund all of these costs until Mr P is able to get back into his 
property. 
Mr P also told us that he had to take taxis to work because of the unsocial hours of 
his work. This is because his bike was locked in the property, and he had no other 
form of transport. I dont think I can fairly ask Halifax to pay these costs as Mr P could 
have contacted Halifax to arrange to collect his bike from the property  but he didnt. 
I also wont be asking Halifax to refund the field agent cost from September 2022 as 
Halifax had arranged this prior to Mr P making contact with them and Halifax were 
after all, trying to find out what was happening. The biggest impact however is the reputational damage that this has had on Mr P. 
He was made homeless and found himself living in hotels and staying with friends 
and family when he could. His neighbours would have been aware of what has 
happened, and I think that Halifax need to acknowledge what this has meant for Mr 
P. Our investigator thought that Mr P should be awarded £2,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience that he has been caused  but I am thinking of awarding more than 
this. I think that the level of disruption to Mr Ps life and the embarrassment that he 
has been caused needs to be recognised. I am therefore minded to direct Halifax to 
pay Mr P £3,500 for the trouble and upset he has been caused. 
Developments
Halifax responded to the provisional decision and accepted what I had said. There were 
some additional points they wanted to make for clarification purposes. 
They said they would like Mr P to provide them with an up to date and valid contact 
telephone number and also an address for when he is not residing at the property due to his 
work  so that they have another way to contact him should they need to. 
Halifax also acknowledged that Mr P is away for work regularly and wanted to clarify that the 
costs in relation to accommodation that I said they should pay for, were only relevant to the 
costs for accommodation when he was due to be at his property  and not when he was 
away for work. 
Halifax also wanted to point out that the commentary they provided regarding Mr Ps ongoing 
affordability was not intended as a definitive rejection of the relinquishment request. It was 
just one of the concerns they had as they werent able to have a conversation with Mr P 
about it. 
Mr P also accepted the provisional decision but had some further questions he also wanted 
clarification on via his representative. His representative made the following comments:
The damage caused in cutting out the front door handle and lock and using a 
padlock to secure it. It cannot therefore be secured from the inside. The property is a 
listed building and in a conservation area, the front door cannot merely be patched 
up and is likely to need replacing.
The same sort of damage caused to the garage door.
The apparently missing council approved wheelie bin that was at the property.
The shrubs and plants that have not been attended to and are subsequently 
significantly overgrown.
Is Halifax responsible for reinstating the utilities, and can Mr P expect to be 
reimbursed for the standing charges for gas, electricity and water rates and council 
tax for the period since he was repossessed?
Pest control survey  its a 300-year-old property left empty for this long so is at high 
risk of vermin.
With any number of people having entered and walked through the property can Mr 
P expect the property to be deep cleaned?
Any further damage caused with the property having been empty.
The increase in homeowner management fees as I havent been able to dedicate 
my time to the escalation of the case by Halifax for free.
Will Mr P be given the opportunity to inspect the property before he accepts the 
return of the same.There were further concerns raised based on the order that the process needs to follow as 
Mr P asked if Halifax have to reinstate the property to its previous condition and then hand 
the keys back to him -or is Mr P expected to restore the property himself and submit costs to 
Halifax for the damage. Mr P also wanted clarification that Halifax will be expected to pay for 
his accommodation costs if they are to undertake the restoration work of the property.
There has been further information that needed to be clarified before issuing a final decision 
on this complaint as Mr P via his representative has had some concerns regarding the state 
of the property.
With regards to the points made by Mr Ps representative above, we asked Halifax if they 
would allow Mr P access to the property to ascertain the damage and state of the property in 
relation to the concerns that he has  Halifax agreed to this.
Mr P has since been to the property which he said he found utterly soul destroying and has 
provided photographs as evidence of what he has seen and the concerns that he has about 
his property. Mr Ps representative said that although the property sale at auction was put on 
hold, all Mr Ps belongings have been put into bags and unfortunately, Mr P was unprepared 
for what he saw when he visited the property. Mr P also had concerns that the property has 
been sat empty for nearly a year so there is damage and rapid dilapidation of the property. 
We were provided with the following detailed information regarding the state of the property 
along with photographs:
Damage to the property
The front door and frame can clearly not be patched up. Mr Ps property is a grade 
2 listed property in a conservation area and the door will have to be replaced like for 
like by way of a hardwood front door and made good by a professional and not a 
handy man. The front door is toughened security glass so the glass would need to be 
utilised or the replacement door would have to match the specification. 
The doorbell is a traditional Victorian doorbell and appears to be cut, which will need 
to be restored.
The letterbox, attached to the gate has been screwed shut. Removing the screw will 
leave a hole in the letterbox cover and will not be acceptable. This has also meant 
that Mr P has not been receiving his mail  including a new license which he has had 
to pay out £20 for a replacement.
The lock to the front gate has also been drilled and damaged. It was fully functional 
before so will need to be replaced.
The garage door will also need replacement locks and any damage caused from the 
fitting of the padlock repaired.
Upkeep of the property
The photographs show the property has fallen into rather a poor state of repair in 
terms of dust and bugs littering every surface, so the property needs to be cleaned. 
There appears no sign of an infestation beyond that of normal household bugs.
The plants and shrubbery in the front garden have grown out of control so you can 
barely see the property from the street. One of the small trees in the pot appears to 
be beyond recovery.
They note that it was mentioned that services would need to be restored however 
this will need to include the central heating system. The boiler which is relatively new 
has been switched off for an extended period of time and theyre not sure what 
implications this carries. The whole system appears to have been drained so this will 
require refilling and rebalancing.I asked the investigator to go back to Halifax to let them know what I was minded to direct 
them to do in my final decision  to ensure that we were all on the same page with regards 
to what was expected. 
Damage to the property
The front door and frame can clearly not be patched up. Mr Ps property is a grade 
2 listed property in a conservation area and the door will have to be replaced like for 
like by way of a hardwood front door and made good by a professional and not a 
handy man. The front door is toughened security glass so the glass would need to be 
utilised or the replacement door would have to match the specification. I agreed with 
this.  
The doorbell is a traditional Victorian doorbell and appears to be cut, which will need 
to be restored. I agreed with this. 
The letterbox, attached to the gate has been screwed shut. Removing the screw will 
leave a hole in the letterbox cover and will not be acceptable. This has also meant 
that Mr P has not been receiving his mail  including a new license which he has had 
to pay out £20 for a replacement. The letterbox will need to be replaced like for like 
as it doesnt appear it can be fixed. Halifax should also reimburse Mr P the £20 he 
has paid for his replacement license if he can provide evidence of this.
The lock to the front gate has also been drilled and damaged. It was fully functional 
before so will need to be replaced. I agreed with this. 
The garage door will also need replacement locks and any damage caused from the 
fitting of the padlock repaired. I agreed with this. 
Upkeep of the property
The photographs show the property has fallen into rather a poor state of repair in 
terms of dust and bugs littering every surface, so the property needs to be cleaned. 
There appears no sign of an infestation beyond that of normal household bugs. This 
is part of making the property good so Halifax should ensure the property is cleaned 
thoroughly.
The plants and shrubbery in the front garden have grown out of control so you can 
barely see the property from the street. One of the small trees in the pot appears to 
be beyond recovery. These should be cut back so they are in reasonable shape, as 
they were at repossession. Halifax should use the pictures from their repossession 
pack.
The representative said that it was mentioned that services would need to be 
restored however this will need to include the central heating system. The boiler 
which is relatively new has been switched off for an extended period of time and not 
sure what implications this carries. The whole system appears to have been drained 
so this will require refilling and rebalancing. I agreed with this. Halifax should 
arrange for an expert to restore the central heating system so that it is fully functional 
and safe by winter.
Council bin appears to be missing. Its less likely this would have gone missing if Mr 
P was in residence so Halifax will need to arrange for another one to be sent to Mr 
Ps address  at their own cost if there is one.
The representative asked about the utilities and if these would be switched back on.  
Halifax should reinstate any utilities that were turned off or not paid. For example, 
gas, electric water, council tax etc. But Mr P would have to pay any standing charges 
and council tax for when he was in residence as it wouldnt be fair to ask Halifax to 
cover those.The representative suggested that there may be pests so asked about pest control. 
From what we have been told, there was no sign of infestation, so we wont be 
asking Halifax to do anything further other than clean the property.
Property to be deep cleaned. We would not direct a deep clean however we would 
expect Halifax to return the property to Mr P made good in the condition it was in at 
the time of repossession.
Any further damage to property. This is covered under making the property good. 
The rep has explained that their fee was fixed up to the point of the investigators 
outcome and didnt expect Halifax to reject the outcome which has now meant the 
case is at final decision, so their fees have increased. An invoice has been attached 
for £1,500 which Halifax should also pay for along with the fees mentioned in the 
provisional decision already.
The representative asked about the accommodation costs while Halifax arrange for 
the property to be put in the state it was in before. Halifax as stated in my provisional 
decision will need to continue to pay for Mr Ps accommodation costs until the work is 
complete and he is able to get the property handed back. Mr P works away regularly 
so I would only expect Halifax to pay for accommodation costs where he was due to 
be at the property and not when he was away for work. 
I explained that Halifax should compare the photos that Mr P has provided along with those 
in their repossession pack to ensure the property is made good including everything 
mentioned above so that its in the state it was in before they took it over. 
Halifax responded and asked for a bit more in relation to the accommodation costs that Mr P 
incurred and had a few more questions regarding the replacement license that was sent to 
Mr P.  The representative told us that Mr Ps costs are approximately £400 per week which 
will continue until the property is returned.  He also said that Mr P hasnt been working away 
more recently and has been staying within commutable distance for work in anticipation of 
being able to return to the property. The representative said that the DVLA informed Mr P 
that they didnt need to change his address based on the knowledge that he would be 
returning to the property, and he had no fixed address at the time  which is why the driving 
license was still sent to Mr Ps home address. 
Halifax then responded in detail and let us know what they agreed to and what they needed 
further clarification on within this decision.
They have made the following comments:
Compensation of £3,500 for reputational damage  agreed
Remove all litigation costs from the account  those applied since litigation action 
began late last year are agreed. Litigation costs relating to activity prior to 2022 will 
remain
Legal fees £3,750 plus 8% - agreed
Further representative fees £1,500  agreed. Although for accuracy they wanted to 
highlight that Mr P also escalated the case for final decision
- Accommodation costs reimbursement  agreed up to the point of the hand back 
of the property keys and dependent upon the provision of invoices. Halifax 
confirmed they had received invoices for the following dates:
- 10 August to 11 August £45.99
- 21 August to 22 August £41.99
- 30 August to 1 September £105.98- 6 September to 8 September £137.98
- 10 September to 11 September £35.99
- 11 September to 12 September £57.49  Halifax said there are duplicate dates 
costing £314 which they were unsure about
- 18 September to 22 September £345.96
- 25 September to 29 September £343
- 2 October to 13 October £289.69
- 9 October to 13 October £296
- Halifax said in the provisional decision there was reference to costs included up to 
the date of the investigators view of £2,179.11  they said they agree to these in 
principle but will need to see the invoices 
- Halifax said they would like us to consider if its reasonable to offset the 
reimbursement of the accommodation costs to the CMP that Mr P was required to 
pay on his mortgage for the same period. They said it was confirmed in the 
provisional decision that having seen Mr Ps payslips, he is in a position to afford the 
payments. So on that basis, they deem it reasonable to deduct the CMP from March 
2023 to present from the accommodation costs.  They said if this isnt possible, can 
we confirm that Mr P can make a lump sum payment to cover the missed CMPs 
since March 2023 to present. Halifax explained that if this wasnt possible, the 
arrears figure will increase significantly when the property is handed back, and the 
account will be in a worse position than when the court authorised the eviction. They 
said the account is on the standard variable rate which has been subject to further 
increases so a remediation will need to take place to establish what the CMP would 
have been at each interest rate change. 
- They said they agree to cover reasonable costs for the damage to the front door 
upon the provision of the invoice. They said they reserve the right to cover 
reasonable costs only and will not be liable for the costs over and above reinstating a 
like for like door and locks.
- They agree to cover reasonable costs for repair of the doorbell upon provision of an 
invoice.
- They agreed to cover the cost of a new letterbox cover on a like for like basis upon 
provision of a sale receipt or invoice. They believe that Mr P should have updated his 
correspondence address with DVLA, but they agree to cover the cost of the £20 fee 
which they will pay alongside the compensation payment.
- They agreed to cover reasonable costs of the replacement lock on the front gate 
upon provision of an invoice.
- They agreed to cover the reasonable cost of the replacement garage lock upon 
provision of an invoice.
- They agreed to cover reasonable costs for cleaning the property and this will not 
extend to a deep clean as the requirement appears to be for a surface clean to 
remove dust/standing debris.
- They agreed to cover the costs of reasonable cutting back of the shrubbery. They 
attached photos which reflect that the shrubbery was already overgrown when the 
property came into their possession so the costs should be reflective of this. This will 
be paid upon receipt of an invoice outlining what works have been carried out. They 
will also replace the tree once they receive a sales receipt or invoice.
- They said with regards to the central heating system, this should be arranged by Mr P in line with his own preferences as to who carries this out and when. Halifax said 
they will cover the reasonable cost of this upon receipt of an invoice.
- They said they will cover the cost of the council tax bin upon confirmation of the cost.
- Halifax said their asset managers confirmed the following regarding the utilities:
- The water has been turned off but not drained as access was below the 
floorboards
- The electricity was turned off and the meter reading at the time showed a deficit 
of £2.77
- The gas was turned off but due to the age of the meter and deficient screen they 
were unable to take a reading
- The heating was not drained down due to access issues
- Mr P will need to contact the council upon re-occupation to ensure the right 
council tax is charged
- The keys to the property are with a local estate agent and when collecting these, 
Mr P will need to take a form of identification
- Based on the above, the asset managers have confirmed that Mr P can arrange 
for the utilities to be turned back on with relative ease and reoccupation of the 
property can be swift
Halifax said they will commit to reviewing any further requests for reasonable costs in 
relation to any further damage to the property on the provision of an invoice
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been a lot of mediating between Mr P, his representative and Halifax since the 
provisional decision was issued with a view to trying to get to the detail of what needs to be 
done to Mr Ps property before its handed back to him.
Im pleased that Halifax have agreed with everything that has been put to them and think 
that action will need to be started, to ensure the swift return of Mr Ps property. 
Based on what Halifax have said, Mr P will need to provide invoices for some of the work 
that is now due on the property as detailed above, because of the damage that has been 
made to certain items. 
I think its imperative that Mr P gets the keys to the property back as quickly as possible as 
this has caused him a great deal of upset and inconvenience and it will be better for all 
involved for this matter to be resolved as quickly and efficiently as is possible.
The starting point here is that Halifax will need to arrange for the property to be cleaned so it 
is back to the position it was in before they took possession of it. Mr P will not be able to 
move back in until this is done. I appreciate that its been very stressful for Mr P to see his 
belongings in black bags and while it wont be pleasant for him to have to put things back as 
they were, I think he will have to do this himself once the property has been cleaned in order 
to avoid any further issues. 
Mr P should also  which can be done at the same time  start to arrange for the work that is 
needed on the property in relation to all of the items listed above that Halifax will need 
invoices for. For ease, I have listed them below but have not gone into the detail again as 
this is all contained above:
Front door Doorbell
Letterbox
Front gate
Garage locks
Shrubbery and tree
Central heating 
Council bin
Utilities 
Any further damage that needs to be rectified
Once he has obtained the necessary invoices and sales receipts that Halifax have asked for 
above, Mr P will need to send these to them so that they can reimburse him the reasonable 
costs in relation to all the work that has been detailed above. 
Halifax should arrange for all refunds detailed above including the compensation amount, to 
be paid to Mr P. 
Mr P should provide Halifax with an updated contact telephone number and alternative 
address for when he is due to be away for work so that they have a way to contact him in the 
future should they need to. This will prevent any further issues in the future.
With regards to the considerations that Halifax asked me to make concerning the 
reimbursement of the accommodation costs, I have thought about this very carefully and I do 
think that the suggestion by Halifax is reasonable so that Mr Ps mortgage account isnt in a 
worse position than it should be. I also reached out to Mr Ps representative to let him know 
my thoughts around this.  
Mr Ps representative has confirmed that Mr P agrees to offset the refund of the 
accommodation against the mortgage payments that were due since March 2023. But he 
said that Mr P doesnt agree to clear the payments that accrued during the period that the 
direct debit was cancelled between August and October and that he would like those 
payments added to the mortgage. 
I think that offsetting the accommodation costs from March 2023 until Mr P is handed back 
the property is the right thing to do. I would note here that, it appears that the payment from 
February 2023 may not have been made as this was the month that Mr P was evicted  so 
Halifax should check this. If this payment hasnt been made, its reasonable to offset the 
accommodation costs from February 2023 instead of March 2023.
The payments from August, September, October and November 2022 will still need to be 
paid so even though Mr P would like these added to the mortgage, I did say in my 
provisional decision that Halifax should agree an affordable way for Mr P to repay these 
missed payments, along with any historic arrears that are still outstanding on the mortgage  
this still needs to happen. So I see no reason to depart from what I said previously. Halifax 
should give proper consideration to any forbearance they can offer Mr P which may include 
capitalising the arrears. Whilst capitalisation is an option, its not for me to say if its the right 
option so as I said, Halifax will need to give proper considerations to what they can offer Mr 
P and they should discuss these options with him. 
Mr Ps representative has given us an explanation for the duplicate payments which have 
been requested for the accommodation costs for Mr P. Mr P currently works a shift pattern, 
and its been explained that on occasion, the hospital that he works at change his shifts and 
tell him they dont require him to work on that particular shift. So on these days, Mr P would 
have already checked out of his accommodation only to have to go back again as he had 
no-where else to stay. This explanation is reasonable so Halifax should be able to go ahead and refund the accommodation costs as agreed. Mr P will need to provide invoices since his 
eviction for the time that he has been renting out accommodation until the time that he is 
handed back his property so that Halifax are able to carry out the necessary adjustments to 
his mortgage account. 
Mr P would have only required accommodation when he wasnt away at work or staying with 
friends/family, so these are the costs that need to be taken into account. The representative 
has said that since Mr Ps eviction, he has tried to stay more local to his home address and 
has not been working away as much as he was trying to get this matter sorted out and 
hoping he would be able to get his property back. I would not expect Halifax to pay for 
accommodation costs while Mr P was away for work so invoices will need to be supplied 
since eviction so that Halifax can make the necessary adjustments to Mr Ps mortgage (for 
offsetting those payments).  
As Halifax have said, they will need to recalculate what Mr Ps CMP would have been with 
the recent interest rate changes so its not clear how much the CMP has been during the 
period from March 2023 so if there are any funds available after the offset of these costs to 
the mortgage account, Halifax should let Mr P know so he can decide whether to offset 
these against last years payments or the arrears, or whether Mr P wants any surplus 
refunded back to him. 
As Ive already mentioned, this has been a very stressful time for Mr P and Halifax will need 
to carry out the actions on their end to enable Mr P to start contacting the relevant people 
that he needs to get the work carried out on the damaged items, including arranging for 
utilities to be turned back on. 
I hope this clarifies to the representative and to Mr P in how things need to get rectified. I 
think its easier all round for Mr P to arrange the work that he needs carried out and then 
supply Halifax with the invoices needed. 
The key thing here is to get Mr P back into his property as quickly as possible and it would 
be reasonable for both parties to continue to work together to ensure that this matter is 
brought to a satisfactory ending without any further delays. 
I think its also important to note here that Mr P should ensure that he sticks to any payment 
arrangements (or any form of forbearance) offered by Halifax to ensure that there are no 
further issues in the future. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) to:
At their own expense, Halifax will need to reimburse Mr P for the changes he needs 
to make in order to make good any damage or changes made to the property as a 
result of the eviction  such as repairing or changing locks, removing boards, helping 
Mr P reinstate services if he needs it  and return the property to Mr P. This means 
they should pay for the reasonable costs as agreed for the following:
- Front door will need to be replaced like for like and made good by a 
professional. Front door is toughened glass so the glass would need to be utilised 
or replacement door would need to match the specification  Mr P to arrange this.
- Doorbell will need to be restored  Mr P to arrange this. 
- The letterbox will need to be replaced like for like as it doesnt appear it can be 
fixed, and Mr P will need to arrange this. Halifax should also reimburse Mr P the 
£20 he has paid for his replacement license if he can provide evidence of this.
- Front gate lock will need to be replaced so that its fully functional  Mr P to 
arrange this.- Garage door will need replacement locks and any damage caused from fitting of 
the padlock will need to be repaired  Mr P to arrange this. 
- Cleaning  Halifax should arrange for Mr Ps property to be sufficiently cleaned 
so that its in the condition it was prior to possession  this should be done 
immediately so that Mr P can get back into the property
- Shrubs should be cut back to how they were at possession of property and 
Halifax should reimburse the cost of the tree  Mr P to arrange this. 
- Central heating  Mr P should arrange for someone to look at the heating and 
Halifax should cover reasonable costs in relation to this in order to get it up and 
running
- Council bin  Mr P to let Halifax know how much a replacement bin is so that they 
can cover the cost of this. Mr P will need to arrange the replacement
- Utilities  Mr P to contact his utility providers to get them all reinstated. He will 
also need to contact his local council to let them know he is back in the property 
so they can arrange to work out the correct bill for him. Mr P will need to pay for 
any outstanding charges for the time prior to possession of the property
- Any further damage  Mr P to provide Halifax with any other invoices for them to 
consider the payment towards any other damage that he finds at the property
Remove all legal, eviction and any other costs or fees from the mortgage balance 
which were charged in connection with the legal action taken in 2022 and 2023, 
including any interest charged on them.
Re-instate the mortgage direct debit and allow Mr P to pay the amounts which were 
missed in August, September, October and November 2022, by setting up a new 
payment arrangement, in a way that is affordable for him.  Halifax should give proper 
consideration to forbearance they can offer Mr P for the outstanding arrears balance 
which may include capitalising the arrears. 
Refund the fees that Mr P has had to pay for the representative who has been acting 
on his behalf which has costs of £3,750 and £1,500. Halifax will need to add 
8%*simple annual interest to both payments. 
Halifax should reimburse Mr Ps accommodation costs for the periods he wasnt 
working away from home from the time that he has been evicted to the time that he is 
handed back the keys to the property. This refund should offset the CMP that was 
required on the mortgage from March 2023 (or February 2023 if this payment has 
been missed) until Mr P is handed back the property. These costs should include 
8%* simple annual interest. If there is any surplus, Halifax should let Mr P know and 
he can decide whether to offset these against the missed payments from 2022 or the 
historic arrears or get the money back as a refund.
Pay Mr P £3,500 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused and for the 
impact this has had on him. 
Mr P will need to provide Halifax evidence of the costs that we are asking for them to 
reimburse. Halifax will cover the reasonable costs for the above for the items being on a like 
for like basis. I would not expect Halifax to pay for anything over and above this. 
*Halifax may deduct income tax from the 8% interest elements of my award, as required by 
HMRC. But they should tell Mr P what they have deducted so that he can reclaim the tax 
from HMRC if he is entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman