DRN-4355596
The complaint
Mr F complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S), trading as M&S Bank,  
irresponsibly granted him a credit card agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr F applied for and was accepted for a credit card in October 2019. He was granted a  
£2,000 credit limit but was not accepted for further increases when he applied for them. 
Mr F got into difficulty with meeting his card repayments. In January 2022 he agreed a 
repayment plan after hed sought debt advice.
Mr F says that M&S didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable as he was struggling to manage the credit hed 
already taken out. 
M&S didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included using the 
information Mr F gave in his application as well as information provided by a  credit 
reference agency. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. They thought M&S ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt likely to be affordable for Mr F.
As M&S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
When Mr F applied for the card, he told M&S he was earning an annual gross salary of 
£37,000. Typically, this would work out to a net salary of around £2,400, although the bank 
statements hes given us suggest that after deductions he was receiving net pay of around 
£1,900-£2,000 per month. M&S said it carried out checks to make sure the card would be 
affordable for Mr F. It did this by relying on information in Mr Fs application and also by 
checking information held by credit reference agencies. Unfortunately it no longer has the 
actual credit check from the time, but instead provided us with the underwriters notes that 
were prepared after the application was referred for further checks. The notes show that 
Mr F had had a previous credit default in 2017 which had been satisfied. The notes also said 
that Mr F owed around £25,000 in credit from a loan hed taken out in July 2019, for which 
he was repaying £378 each month. He was also making mortgage payments. The notes also 
show M&S knew that Mr F had two credit cards with balances totalling around £8,200
 
I think the extent of these existing credit commitments should have prompted M&S to carry 
out further checks to ensure that it was acting proportionately in order to gain a more 
thorough understanding of Mr Fs financial circumstances before lending to him. 
Mr F sent us his credit report. As our investigator noted, the report shows that Mr F was 
heavily reliant on successive borrowing. As M&S had seen, in July 2019 hed taken a loan 
requiring 77 monthly payments of £378, but also in June another loan which would require 
monthly repayments of £86 for 84 months. It can be seen that Mr F was reliant on a regular 
pattern of loans from 2017 onwards.  
Given Mr Fs level of existing credit, including his loan repayments of £378 and £86, his 
monthly payments (based on sustainable 5% monthly repayments on his credit cards) would 
be taking around £900 from his monthly income. He was also meeting the cost of monthly 
mortgage repayments of £731  Ive not seen evidence to show or suggest this was being 
paid jointly. So it seems likely that Mr F was having to find around £1,600 each month to 
meet his debt commitments. This is before allowing for the extra £100 Mr F would have to 
find if he was to use his new card to fund other debt. And it doesnt take into account other 
committed expenditure and daily living costs. So I think on that basis M&S ought to have 
been prompted by its checks to gain a better idea of Mr Fs financial situation by asking him 
for more information about his ongoing expenditure. As things stand, it seems likely that 
Mr F would only be left with a sum of around £2-300 in order to meet household costs and 
daily expenses each month, with little likelihood of having any disposable income. This 
situation may have been slightly eased by help from Mr Fs partner but this isnt something 
M&S included in its calculations when assessing his ability to repay the loan. 
From the information Ive seen that would have been available to M&S at the time, I think it 
would have been proportionate for M&S to have found out more about Mr Fs committed 
expenditure, such as his household costs and daily expenses. Mr F sent us three months of 
bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These show that Mr F was making 
regular use of his overdraft facility on one of his two current accounts and was transferring  
funds to himself from a separate account. This again suggest that his monthly outgoings, 
once hed met is credit commitments, werent enough to support his other non-credit 
committed expenditure and was unlikely to have left him with any disposable income. So I 
think all this demonstrates that he didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably 
afford the additional borrowing. 
I therefore think theres a strong likelihood that at the time of applying for the card, Mr Fs 
financial welfare was already deteriorating. And so I think that taking on further debt at this 
point raised the real possibility that he would be accelerating his debt unsustainably. 
I therefore think M&S ought to have done more to look into Mr Fs financial situation before 
granting it. And so I think on balance M&S didnt act fairly by approving the card. 
Ive seen that M&S has queried the appropriate way to apply redress in this complaint. I think 
our standard redress for this type of complaint  as set out below  can be properly applied 
without difficulty. Once the balance has been cleared, M&S can then remove any adverse 
information from the credit file relating to the account. In the meantime, it remains open to Mr 
F to put forward any further settlement offers with a view to clearing, or expediting the 
clearance of his outstanding balance.
I am therefore setting out below the redress thats in line with our approach and which our 
investigator set out in the uphold view letter. Putting things right  what M&S needs to do
As I dont think M&S ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be able 
to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr F should pay 
back the amount he has borrowed. Therefore, M&S should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr. F along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. M&S should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Mr Fs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, M&S should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr F for the remaining amount, if it has not done so 
already. Once Mr F has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to 
the account should be removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as 
M&S Bank, to put things right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman