DRN-2878026
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the decision by Society of Lloyds (SoL) to turn down 
their buildings insurance claim.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs D noticed the flooring in their kitchen and dining room 
had dropped. A claim was made under their buildings insurance policy.
After investigations were carried out, SoLs loss adjuster thought the damage had been 
caused by periodic rising of the water table. SoL turned down the claim, as it said this 
cause of damage wasnt covered by the policy. It also said it thought the damage had 
happened gradually, which was excluded under the policy. Though it did offer £100 
compensation to Mr and Mrs D for the length of time it took to deal with their claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs D brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for SoL to conclude the damage had happened gradually, and so she also 
didnt think Mr and Mrs D could successfully claim under the accidental damage section 
of cover.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 June 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy covers certain events (known as insured perils). For a claim to be payable, 
Mr and Mrs D need to show that the damage to their home was caused by one of those 
insured perils. Some of those insured perils include subsidence, flood, and escape of 
water from fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes.
A CCTV drain survey was carried out. There were widespread structural defects in one 
drain that connected to the main sewer, though the majority of those defects were located 
off the property boundary. There were also structural defects to a drain within the property 
(running from the island sink in the kitchen). No other major defects were found with the 
remaining drains.
SoLs loss adjuster pointed out that the drainage defects identified above occurred away 
from the area of damage in the property, and so they didnt think the drains were causing 
the problems. That seems to have been a reasonable conclusion.
The loss adjuster arranged for a section of the dropped flooring in the dining room to be 
lifted. Although the floor void was dry on the day the inspection took place, the underside 
of timber joists under the flooring were wet to the touch, and the timbers had begun to 
rot.
Three boreholes were then drilled in the garden and a trial pit excavated through the base 
of the floor void in the property itself. No water in the ground was found in the garden but 
water was struck below the floor void, with standing water at 1.23m depth.
The loss adjuster concluded the damage to the dining room floor (and therefore also likely 
the cause of damage to the kitchen floor) was saturation of the suspended timber floor 
joists, causing rot to the joists and failure of the timber section. They said the only 
established source of moisture was water in the ground which appeared to be seeping 
under the foundations. Tests carried out to the water found that it was likely to be 
groundwater. They said that fluctuations in ground water flow due to seasonal changes 
and heavy rainfall would cause periodic rises in the water table, and they thought this 
water was rising into the void below the floor and therefore saturating the floor joists, 
which caused the flooring to drop.
I think it was reasonable for SoL to rely on its loss adjusters opinion here. Extensive 
investigations had taken place, and the loss adjuster concluded the main cause of 
damage was the periodic rising of the water table. Although Mr and Mrs Ds 
representative thinks the water was an overflow of a soakaway, they havent provided 
evidence to support that view.
The next point for me to consider is whether the rising water table would be covered 
under the policy.
The policy includes cover for flood, though it doesnt define what that means. The 
approach of this service is that a flood can happen when water builds up slowly. The 
main point is that water has built up, regardless of where it has come from.
The loss adjuster thought that heavy rainfall would lead to the water table to rise, and 
therefore water builds up and enters the floor void below the property, thus saturating the 
floor joists. Im therefore satisfied that this would be considered flooding. Although the 
water didnt enter the property, it has still caused damage to the property (the flooring), 
and so the damage has been caused by an insured peril.
The policy does exclude damage that happens gradually. I accept that the damage 
likely happened gradually, given that the timbers were showing signs of rot. Therefore, 
strictly speaking, SoL were entitled to turn down the claim by relying on this exclusion.
However, I think it would only be reasonable for SoL to rely upon this exclusion if Mr 
and Mrs D were aware of the damage happening gradually, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware of it.
As I understand it, the first time Mr and Mrs D became aware of the problem was when 
they noticed a slight crack to their kitchen floor in December 2018. Soon after that, the 
crack become noticeably worse and the floor had dropped. They then started 
investigations into the problem, and subsequently made a claim.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D couldnt have reasonably been aware of the damage 
happening gradually to the timber joists under the flooring. Consequently, I think it would 
be fair and reasonable for SoL to accept the claim.
SoL offered Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation for the time taken to deal with their 
claim. I think that was appropriate in the circumstances.
I note that SoL intended to reduce any claims settlement. Thats because it hadnt been 
made aware of the correct number of bedrooms in the property, and so it thought there 
had been misrepresentation. To be clear, I havent considered that issue as part of this 
decision. If Mr and Mrs D have any concerns about that once the claim is dealt with, they 
should raise a complaint with SoL in the first instance.I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs D confirmed they accepted my provisional findings. 
SoL responded to say it doesnt agree that there was a flood. It maintains that it was a 
gradually-operating cause which the policy excludes. Whilst it accepts Mr and Mrs D werent 
aware of any damage until they noticed the crack, SoL says its not convinced the damage 
happened overnight.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SoL doesnt agree that there was a flood.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the policy doesnt define whats meant by flood. 
The approach of this service is that a flood doesnt need to happen suddenly  instead it can 
happen when water builds up slowly. So long as water has built up, we usually say that 
means there was a flood. 
In Mr and Mrs Ds case, there was a build-up of water due to the water table periodically 
rising, which in turn saturated the floor joists. I therefore remain satisfied there was a flood.  
SoL accepts that Mr and Mrs D werent aware of the damage until they noticed the crack. 
However, it maintains that the damage happened gradually, which it says is excluded under 
the policy.
I accept that the damage happened gradually, and that the policy excludes this. Therefore, a 
strict application of the policy terms would mean that SoL was entitled to turn down the 
claim. However, as Ive explained in my provisional decision, in such cases, I think it would 
only be reasonable for SoL to rely upon that exclusion if Mr and Mrs D were aware (or ought 
reasonably to have been aware) that the damage was taking place. Im satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs D werent aware of this. 
I therefore remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair for SoL to apply the policy exclusion 
here, and so the claim should be accepted on a fair and reasonable basis. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to deal with the 
claim, in line with the remaining policy terms. Though it is noted that SoL may decide to 
reduce the claim settlement because of alleged misrepresentation.
If SoL decides to make a cash settlement, it should add interest at the rate of 8% simple 
per annum from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
I further require SoL to pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation (if it hasnt already done 
so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr 
D to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-RyanOmbudsman