DRN-3249401
The complaint
Miss D complains Sainsburys Bank Plcs application process was unclear and she ended up 
with the wrong credit card.
What happened
Miss D used a third party comparison site to apply for a credit card. Miss D says she was 
looking for a balance transfer credit card without any fees for transferring balances.
Miss D saw a credit card Sainsburys was offering, it had no fees for balances transferred. 
Miss D followed the link from the third party site and completed an application. When Miss D 
transferred balances from other credit cards she was charged a fee.
Miss D complained to Sainsburys. Miss D said shed followed the link for a credit card 
without balance transfer fees, so it was unfair to charge her fees. Miss D said her application 
kept timing out which meant she felt she had to rush.
Miss D also said the emails she received after application didnt make it clear the credit card 
shed applied for charged fees for balance transfers. Miss D asked for a refund of the 
balance transfer fees shed been charged.
Sainsburys replied to Miss D, saying it had opened the credit card shed applied for and 
charged the balance transfers fees in line with the terms and conditions. Sainsburys said it 
didnt control the information on the third party site and the time out is a security function.
Unhappy with this response Miss D brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things but didnt think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought the terms and conditions were clear and Miss D couldnt now change the card.
The investigator also thought Sainsburys couldnt be held responsible for information on 
another companys website.
Miss D didnt agree. Miss D thought it was unfair of Sainsburys not to take responsibility for 
the website. Miss D wanted to know if the investigator had contacted Sainsburys about its 
relationship with the website.
Miss D also said the terms and conditions were very long, and would take a competent 
person some time to read and comprehend.
Miss D asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Miss D ended up with a credit card she didnt want. Its also clear this has been 
very frustrating for Miss D, she applied for a credit card to transfer a balance onto, to avoid 
further debt, and has ended up owing more money.
Looking at what the third party site does I dont believe Sainsburys can be held responsible 
for anything on the site. Its a comparison site, entirely independent of Sainsburys. 
Miss D says Sainsburys no doubt enjoys the income users of the site bring. But this alone 
isnt enough to say Sainsburys is responsible for the content on the site. Id need to be 
satisfied theres a form of agency agreement, and Im not.
The third party site also says its not responsible for the links and customers should always 
double check everything.
When Miss D followed the link, it took her to Sainsburys own site. Miss D completed her 
application on this site, so I need to be satisfied she was given enough information there to 
see what type of credit card she was applying for.
Sainsburys has provided the webpage Miss D would have seen at the start of her 
application. Under the Benefits section, it says a balance transfer fee of 2% or 3% will be 
charged. I think this information is very clearly displayed.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for this account, which Miss D had to tick a box to 
say shed read. Theres a summary box on pages one and two. On page one the summary 
box has details of the interest rates and promotional deals.
On page two it has the credit limit and, just below, the fees Sainsburys applies for balance 
transfers. I think its very clear the type of credit card Miss D applied for came with balance 
transfer fees.
Miss D has said the terms and conditions are long and not easy to read. I understand most 
people wont read the full terms and conditions of a product. The summary box is designed 
to bring the important information to Miss Ds attention without her having to read all the 
terms and conditions.
I think Sainsburys made it very clear, at the point of application, balance transfers would 
attract a fee. Miss D completed the application and carried out balance transfers.
Ive considered Miss Ds point about feeling rushed by her application timing out. Timing out 
an application left idle is standard across most applications, I dont think Sainsburys has 
done anything wrong here.
Miss D has said the emails she received after the application didnt make it clear the type of 
card shed applied for. I think Miss D had several opportunities to see what type of credit 
card she was applying for at the time. So emails after the application dont change my 
thinking, I think Sainsburys clearly explained the fees due at the point of application. 
And, having completed the application Miss D was then charged fees in line with the terms 
and conditions. I dont think Sainsburys has done anything wrong in applying these fees and 
I wont be asking it to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022. Chris Russ
Ombudsman