DRN-2635231
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited has handled a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy.
Mrs R has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to her only.
  
What happened
In 2016, Mrs R got in touch with Ageas after she noticed crack damage at her home. Ageas 
appointed a loss adjuster. They inspected the damage and carried out investigations which 
included soil testing and a drainage survey. Ageas accepted a claim and said the damage 
had been caused by subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage.
The loss adjuster recommended a tree be felled and drainage repairs carried out. These 
things happened in early 2017. Repairs to the building were carried out in August 2017.
In early 2018 Mrs R contacted the loss adjuster to say the cracking had begun to re-appear. 
Soon after that the loss adjuster issued a Certificate of Structural Adequacy. Mrs R didnt 
receive a response about the cracking.
Mrs R contacted the loss adjuster again in April 2019. She said the cracking had continued 
to develop. And shoots had been growing out of the tree stump as it began to regrow. The 
loss adjuster didnt offer to investigate or provide any assistance, so Mrs R complained to 
Ageas. It advised Mrs R to remove the shoots. It said it wouldnt help with the cracking 
because its policy had ended and Mrs R was now insured elsewhere.
Unhappy with this, Mrs R referred her complaint to this service. An investigator considered it 
and ultimately thought it should be upheld. He didnt think Ageas had carried out a lasting 
and effective repair of the subsidence damage. He recommended Ageas pay to put right the 
crack damage. By this time, Mrs R had paid to have the stump removed, and the investigator 
asked Ageas to pay for this too.
Ageas disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas policy covers damage caused by subsidence. Ageas accepted the damage had been 
caused by subsidence and dealt with the claim. When doing so, it had a duty to carry out an 
effective and lasting repair of that damage. That means ensuring the building has stabilised 
and performing repairs that put right the damage for a reasonable period of time. Im not 
satisfied it met that duty here.
Mrs R reported the return of cracking in February 2018  that was around six months after 
the repair was carried out. Im not persuaded six months is a reasonable period of time for 
building repairs to last for. At that point I would have expected the loss adjuster or Ageas to 
take steps to investigate the cracking and establish what caused it. There are a number of 
potential causes but essentially the next step was to determine whether the building was 
stable, but the repairs had failed and needed redoing  or whether the building was still 
moving due to the subsidence and needed stabilising. No steps were taken.
When Mrs R contacted the loss adjuster and Ageas again in 2019, it was another 
opportunity to take the same steps. Ageas didnt do so because it no longer insured Mrs R. 
Had Mrs R been reporting a new problem, I can understand Ageas referring her to her new 
insurer. But she wasnt  she was reporting a problem with the work Ageas was responsible 
for and which had been carried out only a short time earlier. Im not satisfied Ageas treated 
Mrs R fairly when it declined to re-open and investigate her claim.
To put things right, Ageas should now re-open Mrs Rs claim, take responsibility for 
investigating the cause of the cracking  and carrying out an effective and lasting repair.
There is no expert opinion available for me to consider about whats causing the cracking as 
it hasnt been investigated yet. If the building is stable and the problem is simply a failure of 
repairs, then it may be reasonable for Ageas to pay for the appropriate work to be carried out 
to put the cracking right. But if the cracking is a sign of continuing movement, Ageas will 
have to find a way of stabilising it before paying for the repairs. So I cant be more specific 
about what Ageas should do next.
The loss adjuster has said it was certain it was reasonable to carry out repairs for a number 
of reasons. The tree, whose roots had been found beneath the foundation of the house, had 
been felled, the drain repairs had been completed, and no further damage had been 
identified in early 2018. Because of this it saw no need to carry out formal monitoring. The 
evidence Ive seen supports all these points, so I can see why the loss adjuster felt it 
reasonable to move to the repair stage of the claim. But theres always a risk, especially 
without the benefit of monitoring, that the building hasnt stabilised as expected.
When Mrs R contacted the loss adjuster in 2018, it ought to have recognised something 
wasnt right and taken steps to look into things further. Because it didnt do so, theres been 
an unreasonable delay in dealing with this problem  of around three years. During that time, 
Mrs R has seen the cracking continue to develop in her home without any support from her 
insurer. Im satisfied this has caused her unnecessary distress and disappointment. Because 
of that I think Ageas should compensate her. I consider £500 reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I understand when the tree was felled, it wasnt poisoned. Due to the proximity of the tree to 
a pond, the tree surgeon didnt think it appropriate to do so. I dont think that decision is in 
dispute. But Mrs R has queried why the stump wasnt removed by Ageas when poisoning 
wasnt an appropriate option. Ageas says the responsibility for dealing with that would fall to 
Mrs R. She has since had the stump removed but Ageas hasnt agreed to pay for it.
In my experience of subsidence claims, its usually best practice to fell a tree to ground level 
and then poison the stump to prevent or severely limit regrowth. Although some regrowth 
can occur sometimes, this is usually minimal. The stump remains but the influence of the 
roots on the subsoil declines as the tree stops growing. So, felling and poisoning is generally 
seen as an effective way of stopping a tree from causing subsidence.
Here Ageas was unable to follow usual practice and poison the stump. But I dont think that 
means it was reasonable to have taken no further action. I think the fair approach would have been to find an alternative to prevent or severely limit regrowth. It hasnt been disputed 
that stump removal is an effective alternative.
Mrs R has provided a copy of the invoice. The stump removal was one of five items she had 
carried out for a total of £420. The other items are unrelated to the claim and Mrs R doesnt 
have an exact breakdown of the cost for each item. To resolve this point simply and fairly, I 
suggest Ageas pays £85 for it.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ageas said it was prepared to accept my provisional decision.
Mrs R also agreed with it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision and neither party has provided any 
further comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Re-open the claim
Pay £500 for compensation
Pay £85 for stump removal
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman