DRN-4007519
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC rejected a direct debit request for his business and 
didnt contact him about this.
What happened
Mr F signed a direct debit mandate for payments to a third party. He was unhappy to be 
contacted by that third party and told that the request had been rejected by Lloyds as it 
hadnt been signed in line with the mandate for his business account. He believes Lloyds 
made a mistake and ought to have contacted him, not the third party about this as he was 
caused embarrassment. He hasnt had any such problems before and during more than 60 
years of banking.
Lloyds said that the member of staff reviewing the mandate hadnt been satisfied that the 
signature was genuine. It had acted in line with its process. And it confirmed to Mr F that a 
resubmitted mandate had been accepted as genuine and was in place. It declined to offer 
any compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he could see why 
Lloyds might have rejected the signature. He clarified that its process was to write to the 
third party and not Mr F. And that this service didnt have a role in saying what Lloyds 
process should be or what might have happened had this been a fraudulent signature.
Mr F didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. His main point now was that this 
service didnt seem to have any power to admonish Lloyds when things went awry and the 
procedures were wrong as here. He found this very alarming and had also contacted the 
regulator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution, and we dont have a role in setting processes and 
procedures for financial businesses.
I note that unfortunately Lloyds rejected a genuine direct debit mandate for Mr Fs business. 
I can understand why hed be frustrated about that. But that was a decision made by a 
member of its staff whose only aim would be to protect the account and not intentionally 
cause Mr F embarrassment. And Ive seen the internal process details from Lloyds 
confirming that if a request is rejected it would then write to the third party involved and not 
directly to Mr F. So, I dont have a basis to say that it made a mistake and didnt follow its 
process. 
I know Mr F was unhappy when the Lloyds complaint handler later told him shed have likely 
accepted the signature. But I note that by then shed verified him on the phone and knew it 
was a genuine request. I can see she confirmed to him that a repeat direct debit request had 
been accepted by the relevant team and was set up on Mr Fs business account.
I know Mr F has strong views about what happened. But Ive set out my assessment of the 
complaint and for the reasons Ive given I dont have a basis to require Lloyds to take any 
further action. I can appreciate Mr F will be disappointed with this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman