DRN-1573866
 
The complaint
Mrs H says Arthur Bassett & Co Ltd, trading as Bassetts Citroen,  mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs H took out a loan in 2006 to buy a car in a meeting with Arthur Bassett & Co Ltd (Arthur 
Bassett). At the same time, a PPI policy was also added to her account.
The policy cost Mrs H just under £26 a month and I understand wouldve paid her monthly 
loan repayments of just over £170 for up to 12 months for each successful accident, 
sickness and unemployment claim (and up to six months for claims about back problems). 
The policy also gave her life and carer cover.
Mrs H says she never needed nor wanted PPI and didnt know she had the policy until 
recently.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs H disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I know Mrs H feels strongly 
and so my decision will disappoint her but I hope the reasons Im about to give help her to 
understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Arthur Bassett needed to make it clear to Mrs H she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. Mrs H says this didnt happen  she says PPI wasnt discussed at all. And 
she says the tick on the PPI application form she signed, indicating that she wanted it, 
doesnt look like a tick she wouldve made. But Arthur Bassett says Mrs H chose the PPI 
cover she wanted, after itd discussed her circumstances and needs with her. 
There are no notes available to show me what was discussed about PPI, if anything. But Ive 
looked at the PPI application form Mrs H signed, which was separate to her finance 
agreement. It sets out four possible levels of PPI cover alongside the monthly premium for 
each level. Theres also a separate box for an applicant to tick if they dont want PPI. 
There is only one tick on Mrs Hs PPI application form. Thats for having life, accident and 
sickness, unemployment and carer cover (the highest level of cover). Mrs H says she didnt 
tick for any PPI cover, let alone the highest level of cover. But theres also no tick in the box to say no to PPI. If Mrs H didnt tick for any PPI and the section saying no to PPI also 
hasnt been ticked, this means she signed a blank form on that issue. I realise Mrs H was 
young and may not have been used to such paperwork, but I would expect any consumer 
entering into a big financial transaction to take reasonable care when signing documents and 
I think its unlikely Mrs H wouldve signed a blank PPI application form. Even though I know 
this isnt how Mrs H remembers things, I think its more likely that, at the time, Arthur Bassett 
discussed insurance with her and she agreed to the level of cover thats been ticked on her 
application form because thats what she wanted.
I cant be sure who put the tick on the application form. Its possible it was Arthur Bassetts 
adviser rather than Mrs H herself. But either way, on balance I think its likely to have been 
there when Mrs H signed the form and that it reflected what shed decided.
Mrs H says theres a discrepancy because her finance agreement doesnt refer to PPI and 
she hasnt signed for it in that agreement. But I think Mrs Hs finance agreement was 
designed with a different type of PPI product in mind, called a single premium PPI policy, 
where its cost is added to the loan. The policy Mrs H had was a monthly premium one and I 
think thats why theres a separate application form for it. Since Mrs H wasnt buying a single 
premium PPI policy, I think its likely thats why she hasnt signed the section of finance 
agreement dealing with insurance and why it says not applicable, no insurance sold.
So Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint on this point. Ive gone on to see if there are any 
other reasons why I should uphold Mrs Hs complaint but I dont think there are. Arthur 
Bassett says it advised Mrs H to buy the PPI, which means it needed to make sure it was 
right for her. From what Mrs H says of her circumstances at the time and looking at the likely 
policy terms I think it wouldve been. I say this because:
I think its likely Mrs H wouldve been eligible for the PPI. And it seems she was 
working and in good health when she bought it, so wouldnt have been affected by 
the main exclusions and limitations we often see in PPI policies. This means it 
doesnt look as if there was anything to stop her claiming the full policy benefit if 
shed needed to.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to her if she couldnt work because of illness or 
injury, or if she lost her job. Although Mrs H says she had good sick pay, the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of this or any redundancy payment and for longer than its 
likely her full sick pay wouldve lasted. It would also mean she didnt need to use the 
savings she says she had  and which she may have needed for other things  to 
make her loan repayments at what would likely be a difficult time for her. Mrs H says 
she had a grandparents inheritance coming to her. I dont have any details about 
this but I think its unlikely it was guaranteed, substantial and imminent or its unlikely 
she wouldve been taking out a sizeable five year loan.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mrs H couldnt afford the PPI when she 
bought it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for her, Arthur Bassett shouldve given Mrs H all 
the clear information about the PPI she needed to make an informed choice about whether 
she wanted it. I can see the cost of the PPI is set out in the application form Mrs H signed, 
as is a brief summary of what it was for. But its possible some other information  such as 
the things the PPI didnt cover - wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, as Ive already 
said, I think Mrs H is likely to have agreed to have the PPI and it was probably right for her, 
so I dont think clearer information wouldve stopped her going ahead with it.
I know Mrs H is concerned that, although Arthur Bassett wasnt the lender in her finance 
arrangement, it gained financially from the PPI sale. She thinks this was the motive for what 
she calls the mis-selling of the policy and she wants to be refunded for Arthur Bassetts 
share of the commission. Our adjudicator explained to Mrs H the position of lenders, and Mrs H tells us her lender has paid her back some of the commission. But this doesnt make a 
difference to Mrs Hs complaint about Arthur Bassett because it isnt a lender. That means I 
cant fairly say Arthur Bassett needs to pay Mrs H anything back in relation to commission. 
Nor do I think the fact Arthur Bassett or its adviser mayve been entitled to some commission 
made this a mis-sale or led the adviser to act improperly or unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman