DRN-2846660
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a home insurance policy. 
She also complains that the policy wasnt cancelled upon her request.
What happened
Miss C took out a home insurance policy through NatWest in December 2017. Her policy 
automatically renewed in December 2018. 
Miss C says she realised her policy had been mis-sold to her in October 2019. As a result, 
she gave NatWest instruction to cancel her policy on 15 October 2019, but this didnt 
happen. She was charged the monthly premiums in October 2019 and November 2019. The 
policy was cancelled in December 2019.
Miss C complained to NatWest. She said she never received any policy documents. She 
says because the terms and conditions werent explained to her, this led to declined claims 
on her policy and as such it was not fit for purpose.
She asked for all the premiums to be refunded along with £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delayed cancellation. 
NatWest sent its final response on 13 January 2020. It didnt agree that the policy was mis-
sold so did not uphold this part of the complaint. Whilst it had no record of Miss C asking for 
the policy to be cancelled sooner than it was, it refunded the premiums paid for October 
2019 and November 2019 totalling £82.32 and paid Miss C £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Following this, NatWests debt recovery department 
sent Miss C letters requesting payment for an outstanding balance.
Unhappy with NatWests response and the fact that she was still being chased for an 
outstanding balance, Miss C brought her complaint to our service. She asked us to 
investigate the potential mis-sale of the policy and felt she was entitled to more 
compensation due to the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of the cancellation 
process, which has impacted her health.
An investigator initially looked into things and didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold. 
He also felt NatWest had resolved the cancellation issue fairly. The complaint wasnt upheld. 
Upon further review, our investigator thought compensation should be increased to £125 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss C as a result of the debt recovery 
letter sent post final response. NatWest agreed to the suggested settlement, Miss C didnt. 
Because an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered each of Miss Cs complaint points in turn.
Mis-sale complaint
Miss C applied for her initial policy in December 2017. It appears the sale took place in 
branch. NatWest acts as an insurance intermediary. It does not provide personal 
recommendations, instead it provides information about insurance products to help 
customers decide whether a policy meets their demands and needs. NatWest had a duty to 
give Miss C enough information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could 
make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for her.
NatWest sold Miss C a standard home insurance policy. Following the sale, she was 
provided policy documents that clearly set out what was and wasnt covered. Miss C was 
given the opportunity to review the documents and change her mind within the cooling off 
period if she felt the policy wasnt suitable. So, Im satisfied NatWest followed the correct 
sales process. 
Miss C says she didnt receive any policy documents. Im satisfied NatWest sent Miss C her 
policy documents at the time of sale and at renewal. I say this because the Ive seen 
NatWests system screen shots that confirm this. Ive not seen anything to suggest these 
were returned as undelivered, but nevertheless I cant hold NatWest responsible for any 
potential lost mail as it is not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail. If Miss C didnt 
receive any policy documents or had concerns about any of the terms, I would reasonably 
have expected her to have raised this sooner  at the time the policies commenced. I cant 
see this matter was raised until much later on after the declined claims. So, on balance, 
when considering everything, I think its more likely Miss C did receive the policy documents.
Miss C is understandably disappointed that her claims werent paid. But this doesnt mean 
the policy was mis-sold, or that it was not fit for purpose. Ive also considered Miss Cs 
complaint about the declined claims. I didnt uphold the complaint on the basis that I did not 
find that the claims were unfairly declined. I saw nothing to suggest that the policy wouldnt 
pay out, if the correct conditions were met.  
Because Ive seen nothing to suggest this policy was mis-sold, I wont be telling NatWest to 
take any action here. 
Cancellation of the policy
Miss C says her policy wasnt cancelled in October 2019 following the instruction she gave in 
branch. Although NatWest said it had no record of the instruction, it refunded the two 
following premiums taken from Miss Cs account before the policy was cancelled in 
December 2019. NatWest also paid Miss C £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this puts Miss C back in the position she would have 
been in had her cancellation request been processed at the time she says she made it. 
Miss C feels she should be paid more compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ive noted all the things Miss C has said about how the situation has 
affected her health and I sympathise with her situation. But when considering everything, I 
think the compensation of £50 that has been offered to Miss C is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. I say this because even if the policy wasnt cancelled when it 
should have been, Miss C has not lost out as a result. NatWest backdated the cancellation 
and refunded any extra premiums paid. This was a minor oversight that was quickly resolved 
with minimal impact. That being said, NatWest sent Miss C its final response on 13 January 2020. Following this, 
Miss C received a letter from NatWests debt recovery department on 30 January 2020 
saying that there was an outstanding balance due. 
NatWest has provided consent for us to consider this issue as part of this ongoing complaint. 
It has confirmed that Miss C doesnt have an outstanding balance due and this must have 
been sent in error. 
From Miss Cs point of view, when she received NatWests final response letter, she thought 
the policy had been cancelled with no outstanding balance due. Receiving the debt recovery 
letter caused her a further degree of distress and inconvenience, especially as the letter said 
that if payment wasnt made, the matter would be referred to an external debt collection 
agency  which was understandably quite worrying. 
 Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case that NatWest pays Miss C a 
further £75 for the additional distress and inconvenience the debt recovery letter caused her.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should 
increase its offer of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to £125 in total 
and pay to Miss C a further £75 on top of the £50 already paid to her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman