DRN-1972362
The complaint
Miss B complained that she bought goods under a buy now pay later scheme with Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) but was unfairly charged interest. 
What happened
Miss B bought a fridge freezer in July 2018 under a buy now pay later plan through Very. 
Around the same time, she says she called Very as she wanted to check whether she would 
receive some sort of reminder before the due date to ensure she paid it off in time. She says 
she was told she would receive such a reminder 30 days before the deadline and it would be 
sent by post. Over a year later Miss B noticed interest had been added to her account. She 
complained to Very that shed been told she would receive a reminder through the post but 
that hadnt happened and she thought it extremely unfair it had added interest to her 
account.
Very said Miss B had to pay the cash price in full before the due date to avoid interest. The 
due date was a year after her purchase, so July 2019. As she hadnt paid the full amount by 
the due date it said the interest had been applied in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of her account. Very said Miss B had opted out of postal statements and she 
wouldnt therefore have received advance statements by post. Each of her online statements 
had shown her buy now pay later due dates. It said it also sent two advance notification 
statements advising her of the date on which the buy now pay later offer would end. It said 
the onus was on Miss B to view online statements as soon as they are produced. Very said it 
had reviewed the calls Miss B had made but couldnt find any call saying she would receive 
some sort of reminder through the post. However, it did acknowledge that one of its advisers 
hadnt clearly explained how Very notifies its customers about the due date for buy now pay 
later items. It upheld the complaint to that extent and gave Miss B £40 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused.
Miss B wasnt happy with Verys response and approached this service. Our investigator 
didnt think Very had acted unfairly. He said he hadnt seen any evidence to suggest she 
was told she would receive a prompt by post. She hadnt asked for letter statements and she 
had access to online statements. He thought Very had taken reasonable steps to make her 
aware of the deadline. 
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Miss B says she specifically asked Very if she would receive a reminder before the buy now 
pay later deadline. And she says she was told she would receive a reminder by post 30 days 
before the due date. I dont doubt Miss Bs recollection of that conversation but I havent 
seen any evidence that Very said shed receive a reminder by post. And, on balance, I think 
Very took reasonable steps to make her aware of the deadline. I note that Miss B says shes 
used the buy now pay later process with Very before  and would therefore be familiar with 
how it works. Shed also opted out of receiving statements by post and I think it was 
therefore reasonable for Very to say she had a responsibility to check her online statements. 
There appears to be no dispute that those statements provided sufficient warning about the 
due date for the buy now pay later plan and what would happen if a payment wasnt made 
before then.
Very acknowledged the service it provided could have been better and that one of its 
advisers could have explained more clearly what information is given in the statements it 
provides. Ive listened to some of the calls Miss B had with Very but these were all made 
after the buy now pay later deadline had passed and the interest added to her account. So 
these calls arent evidence of Very misadvising Miss B about the notification process before 
she missed the deadline. But I agree that the service could have been better. Very has 
apologised for that and paid Miss B £40 for the distress and inconvenience it caused and I 
think thats a reasonable amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) has already paid Miss B £40 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs 
to do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman