DRN-1703723
The complaint
Ms T complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, lent to her irresponsibly when it provided 
her with a credit card and later increased the credit limit on that card. 
What happened
Ms T took out a credit card with NewDay in January 2012. The initial credit limit was £350. 
Between July 2014 and May 2017, NewDay increased Ms Ts credit limit seven times with it 
eventually reaching £7,350. The amounts of each increase varied. 
The outstanding balance on the card was paid off in full in April 2019. Ms T has provided 
evidence she took out a loan with another company to clear this balance.
In May 2019 Ms T complained to NewDay that it had acted irresponsibly when lending and 
increasing the credit limits. She said shed taken this card out to improve her credit score but 
had been granted unaffordable borrowing at a high rate of interest that she would never 
have realistically been able to repay based on the level of monthly repayments. She said 
shed managed to take a loan to consolidate and repay the borrowing, but she felt strongly 
NewDay shouldnt have lent to her. NewDay didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint so it was passed 
to our service to consider.
NewDay objected to us looking at events more than six years before the complaint was 
made in May 2019  as it felt these issues had been raised too late. Our investigator agreed, 
so felt we couldnt look at anything that happened before May 2013  specifically the initial 
decision to provide the card in January 2012. But he felt we could consider everything since 
May 2013  all of the credit limit increases. Ms T accepted this. 
Our investigator then considered the merits of Ms Ts complaint. And he felt that NewDay 
had acted irresponsibly as he thought the information provided suggested it hadnt carried 
out sufficient checks before increasing the credit limit on Ms Ts credit card. So, he 
recommended that the complaint be upheld and NewDay refund all interest applied to the 
account since the first limit increase in July 2014.
NewDay did not agree with the investigators opinion. It said it felt it had carried out 
appropriate checks and the lending was granted in line with its criteria. It also said Ms T had 
the option to opt out of any limit increases.
As NewDay did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision on the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend a business needs to ensure it does so in a responsible manner. 
There isnt a set requirement of what a business must do in every instance. But they are 
expected generally to carry out appropriate and proportionate borrower focused checks 
around the affordability of any lending, before providing it, and to ensure a borrower can 
afford to make and sustain the repayments, taking account of their financial situation.
NewDay increased Ms Ts credit limit, the amount of lending it was providing, a number of 
times in the space of under three years.
 
In July 2014 it increased the credit limit from £350 to £700  doubling it. 
In November 2014 it increased the limit again to £1,450  again more than doubling 
the lending. 
In April 2015 it increased the limit to £2,550 and in October 2015 raised it to £3350  
increases of £1,100 and £800 respectively. 
The limit was raised to £3,850  a £500 increase  in June 2016. 
Then in December 2016 it increased the credit limit by a further £2,000, bringing it to 
£5,850.
Finally, it increased lending again in May 2017 by raising the limit another £1,500 to 
£7,350.
In the context of the lending I think all of these credit limit increases were significant. The first 
two more than doubled the borrowing and every increase after that was for a substantial sum 
 often several times the original lending.
NewDay has provided the information it used when deciding to increase the lending it made 
available to Ms T. There is no evidence to suggest that it asked for details of her income or 
expenditure at the time of each increase to establish her specific circumstances or to 
determine if she could afford the increased borrowing. 
NewDay has said it used information about how Ms T had managed her NewDay account, 
estimated affordability information and information from credit reference agencies about how 
shed managed other borrowing. And having considered that it felt the increases to the credit 
limit were responsible and affordable and in line with its criteria. Im not commenting on 
NewDays lending criteria  as that is a matter for its commercial judgement. But based on 
what Ive seen I dont think the checks it carried out prior to lending were proportionate or 
sufficiently borrower focussed.
As Ive said, NewDay didnt request income and expenditure details. So, it didnt have 
accurate details of Ms Ts disposable income at the time it increased the lending it made 
available to her. So, it couldnt know with confidence that the new lending or repayments 
were affordable. NewDay has said it used industry standard estimations in relation to this  
but this information was not specific to Ms Ts actual circumstances.
NewDay has said the way Ms T managed her account was a factor in its decisions. Ive also 
reviewed this information.
For over a year before the first limit increase in July 2014, Ms Ts balance had been close to 
her credit limit. And two months prior to the increase she had in fact exceeded her credit limit 
and incurred charges.Almost immediately after the limit was first increased to £700 the new lending was spent, 
bringing her balance to its limit. And in fact, she went over the new limit in September 2014. 
But yet her credit limit was still increased two months after this.
Again, straight after the limit was increased to £1,450, Ms T spent up to her limit, and in fact 
exceeded it, in February 2015. But despite this the limit was still increased again in April 
2015.
Once this limit increase was made, the outstanding balance again rose to around the new 
limit  exceeding the credit limit in three of the first four months after the increase. Yet 
NewDay increased the limit again a couple of months later. And indeed, in the run up to 
each subsequent increase the outstanding balance was close to or at the limit and after the 
increases were made, the new lending was spent pretty much straight away.
All the while the repayments made by Ms T towards the card, with some exceptions, were 
often the minimum required repayment or marginally above that level. 
Taking all of this into account, I think the way the account was operating actually indicated 
Ms T mayve been having problems managing the existing credit limits prior to NewDay 
increasing the lending. So, Im not sure this supports NewDays position that the increases 
were appropriate. And I think it shouldve in fact prompted NewDay to consider Ms Ts 
circumstances further and whether she needed assistance with her current borrowing, rather 
than increasing the level of borrowing available to her.
Ms T has also provided us a copy of her credit file. This shows that around 2014 when, 
NewDay began offering credit limit increases to Ms T, shed made regular use of short-term 
loans. Again, I think this suggest she mayve been having trouble managing her finances at 
that time. I also note this information is at odds with the information NewDay has shared, 
that it says it obtained from credit reference agencies.
The credit file also shows that the total amount of unsecured debt in Ms Ts name began 
increasing significantly around 2016. And this wasnt just due to the extra lending NewDay 
provided. So again, I think this indicates that Ms T mayve been having issues with her 
finances as her indebtedness was increasing and that allowing further borrowing, as 
NewDay did, could potentially make the situation worse.
NewDay has said it gave Ms T the opportunity to opt out of the credit limit increases. But 
giving this option doesnt excuse or allow a business to lend in an unaffordable way.
And based on everything Ive seen, I dont think NewDay did enough at the time of granting 
the credit limit increases to check that they were affordable to Ms T, or sustainable. So, I 
dont think I can reasonably say that it lent responsibly.
Ive gone on to think about whether the increased lending wouldve still been approved if 
further checks had been done.
Based on the information that Ive seen, including Ms Ts current account statements, details 
of her salary and her credit file, I dont think the increased lending wouldve been granted 
had NewDay carried out an appropriate level of checking. The information indicates that 
Ms Ts regular expenditure meant she had little disposable income each month and was 
often already relying on credit from other sources, including short term lending, to manage 
her finances. So, the additional burden of the increase in monthly repayments associated 
with the increased lending by NewDay wouldve likely been considered unaffordable.In summary therefore I think NewDay was wrong to grant the credit limit increases on Ms Ts 
credit card between July 2014 and May 2017. So, Ive thought about what NewDay should 
do to put that right.
Ms T has had the use of the credit. So, I dont think itd be reasonable to say that the 
principal amount borrowed by her in using the card should be written off. But I do think the 
costs incurred, associated with the additional borrowing, should be refunded  interest and 
charges on these additional amounts. 
As I mentioned earlier, I have been unable to consider the initial decision to lend as it falls 
outside of our jurisdiction. And as such I dont think I can reasonably say that interest 
charged on borrowing up to the original credit limit of £350 should be refunded. But I think all 
interest charged on balances above this amount, following the increases to the credit limit, 
should be refunded.
I also dont think any adverse information should be recorded on Ms Ts credit file in relation 
to the credit limit increases  such as instances where the credit card was above its limit, 
when the limit should not have been increased. I say this because, without NewDays 
mistakes in granting the credit limit increase in the first place I find it unlikely these situations 
wouldve occurred.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint.
To put things right NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, should;
Calculate the amount of interest and fees Ms T paid on her credit card on all 
balances over £350, following the increases to her credit limit in July 2014, and 
refund this amount to her. NewDay should send a copy of the calculation to Ms T for 
reference.
Ensure any adverse information related to these credit limit increases are removed 
from Ms Ts credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman