Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 1993. Mrs F and Mr F say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs F and Mr Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much information available about the sale. Mrs F and Mr F say they werent 
told they had agreed to the PPI, but they havent given us much detail about what happened 
or what was said at the time. And Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to send us any 
paperwork from the sale to show Mrs F and Mr F chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount 
of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what it does mean is that, because of the limited information available, I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to say that Bank of Scotland added the PPI without Mrs F 
and Mr Fs knowledge. So I think its most likely that Bank of Scotland made it clear to Mrs F 
and Mr F that they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs F and Mr F chose to take it, 
knowing they didnt have to.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mrs F and Mr F, so it had to check that it 
was right for them. And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs F and Mr Fs circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example, they dont appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out in addition to any sick 
pay they were entitled to. And it meant they didnt need to rely on their family or any savings 
they had to make their mortgage repayments if either of them wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Bank of Scotland had to give Mrs F and Mr F clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Mrs F and Mr Fs 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for Mrs F and Mr F if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mrs F and Mr F off taking it out.
DRN-1045052My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman