DRN-3379262
The complaint
Mrs H complains about United National Bank Limited trading as UBL UK (UBL) havent 
paid her compound interest on the maturity of the ISAs she held with them. 
What happened
In 2016 Mrs H opened two fixed rate cash ISAs both for a five year term with UBL. When 
they matured in 2021 Mrs H thought the interest payment, she received wasnt correct. She 
contacted UBL as shed understood when the ISAs were set up that shed receive 
compound interest. 
UBL told Mrs H they didnt pay compound interest but Mrs H disagreed. She told us based 
on the information in the welcome letter shed retained this wasnt the case.
In its Final Response letter UBL told Mrs H the welcome letter stated that if a customer 
wished for the interest earned to form part of the cash ISA they would need to select the 
Interest at Maturity option. But it said this didnt state or imply that interest at maturity would 
be compounded. So, it didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs H brought the matter to us 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the information Mrs H relied on in 
the welcome letter had to be read in conjunction with the other letters shed received on 
opening these accounts. And, on doing this, the investigator didnt think this information gave 
an indication that compound interest would be applicable. When reviewed with other letters 
received which confirmed the appliable interest, the investigator didnt think it confirmed 
compound interest would apply. And he thought the deposit confirmation letters clearly 
confirmed the gross interest amount that Mrs H would receive. The investigator also thought 
that the information on UBLs website confirmed this and stated that it does not compound 
interest. So, he didnt think UBL had provided incorrect information or calculated the interest 
incorrectly.
Mrs H didnt agree and sent further documents from 2016 being letters, extracts from the 
terms and conditions and a printout of a page from UBLs website at the time. She said the 
wording UBL UK does not compound interest didnt appear in any of these documents or 
on the website at that time. She asked to take up the offer of a referral to the ombudsman so 
she could be absolutely clear on this matter. In response to my request Mrs H later sent 
further information confirming the deposit amounts and those she received on maturity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the conclusion that this isnt a complaint I can uphold. Ill 
explain why.  
Mrs H relies on the wording on the second page of the welcome letters dated 15 April 2016 
which said Interest is calculated on a daily basis and will be paid at the frequency specified 
when you applied for your account. If you had selected for interest to be paid on a monthly, 
quarterly or annual basis; this will be paid out to an account nominated by you at the time of 
account opening. For these interest options, the interest is not compounded and will not form 
part of your ISA with us. Should you wish interest to be included as part of your ISA, then the 
interest at maturity option will need to be selected. Her understanding based on this letter 
and the deposit confirmation letters was - as she didnt elect for monthly, quarterly or annual 
payments - interest would be compounded. But I dont agree. This wording doesnt state 
compound interest will be paid if the monthly quarterly or annual interest payment 
frequencies arent selected. I appreciate the clear statement now on UBLs website that it 
does not compound interest doesnt appear to have been there in 2016. Whilst I think it 
would have removed any speculation if it has been stated, the lack of an any explicit 
statement doesnt mean the opposite is true and compound interest would be paid. 
The lack of a direct reference to compound interest being paid if the interest at maturity 
option is selected is, I think, reinforced in the deposit confirmation letters.  They dont 
mention compound interest. But they do clearly set out a precise amount of gross interest 
that would be paid on maturity of both these ISAs. And Mrs H has confirmed these were the 
amounts UBL paid on maturity of both her accounts. I understand Mrs Hs frustrations and 
that she feels strongly she ought to have been paid compounded interest. But, from 
everything Ive seen theres nothing mentioned directly in the terms or the account opening 
information stating this will be the case. So, Im not persuaded UBL have done anything 
wrong here.
The information in the deposit confirmation letter clearly set out the amount of interest Mrs H 
would be paid at the end of the fixed term. Im satisfied the information UBL sent at the 
outset was clear on the amount that would be paid. If there was any expectation that the 
interest would be compounded or the amount declared in those letters wasnt in line with 
expectations for a payment of compound interest, I think, it ought to have been eliminated by 
this precise figure in the deposit confirmation letter. And I cant see that Mrs H challenged 
the amount in the welcome letter despite having the opportunity to raise questions once that 
letter had been received. And having 14 days from the date of deposit to cancel the 
investment if all wasnt in order.
Overall, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think UBL have done anything wrong here or acted 
unfairly here so I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman