DRN-1986927
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card. AXA France IARD (AXA) is responsible for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs N says AXA mis-sold her the PPI policy on her store card. 
Background
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out on a store card in 2000. 
Mrs N applied for the PPI at a store and it covered her if she was unable to work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. But AXA didnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why. 
AXA needed to give Mrs N clear information about the PPI before she agreed to take it. That 
included highlighting anything that could make it difficult for Mrs N to make a successful 
claim. I dont think its likely AXA did this and I think Mrs N has lost out as a result of this.  
Mrs N says she suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the point of sale. Shes told 
us she was diagnosed with this condition in 2000. 
I think this condition is important because the policy she took out excluded cover for pre-
existing medical conditions. The policy terms excluded cover for any conditions Mrs N knew 
about, shouldve known about or received treatment or advice about it in the 12 months 
leading up to the sale of the policy. Based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs N wouldve been 
caught by this term, and I dont think she couldve made claim if she needed to take time off 
work because of it. 
AXA said, that this condition can be managed with medication  and hadnt required Mrs N 
to take any time off work at the time she took the PPI. It feels that she could therefore use 
the PPI if she was off work because of other illnesses so it would still have been useful for 
her. 
But from what Ive been told, Mrs Ns medical condition is a continuing one  requiring 
regular check-ups and ongoing medication. It can become more serious as time goes on, 
potentially requiring time off work  and any claims arising out of that would likely be 
excluded. Additionally, it can also lead to other more serious conditions  which I think might 
also be excluded based on the policy terms that applied at the time Mrs N took this policy. 
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think she would have been able to make a successful 
claim for this condition and potentially not for ones that developed on from this condition later 
on in life. So I think AXA should have pointed out the exclusion to Mrs N and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest it did this. 
I think Mrs N wouldve seen this condition as a likely reason she might need to make a claim 
under the policy. I dont think Mrs N wouldve bought this policy if shed understood that she 
wouldnt be able to claim for it. So I think shes lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs N in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
As Mrs Ns store card account is now closed, AXA should:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs N would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs N owed when she closed her 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount they owe her. AXA can also deduct any amounts Mrs N 
has already had refunded by the lender in relation to the commission she paid for this 
PPI policy. 
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mrs N 
wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs N would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs N 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at 8% 
a year) on the extra Mrs N paid. And they should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs N wouldve owed AXA something on her store card.
D. AXA should tell Mrs N what theyve done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
N a certificate showing how much tax AXA have taken off if she asks for one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. AXA France IARD should 
pay Mrs N compensation in line with the instructions set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman