DRN-3885447
The complaint
Mr B complains that he hasnt been compensated fairly after Advantage Finance Limited 
(Advantage) agreed his car was of unsatisfactory quality and processed a rejection of it. 
What happened
Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with Advantage in June 2022 for a car. He 
began to experience problems with the car from the beginning, and he attempted to resolve 
these with the car dealership who had brokered the agreement. When he didnt get the 
issues resolved, he complained to Advantage in late July 2022. 
They arranged for an independent report to be done on the car on 6 September 2022, and 
this confirmed the car had significant issues which the report suggested would require a 
replacement engine. Because of this, Advantage confirmed later in September 2022 that 
they were upholding his complaint and he could reject the car. 
They agreed to take the car back, unwind the finance agreement and remove it from his 
credit file. But as Mr B had made no payments towards the agreement but had had use of 
the car, they didnt offer any further compensation. 
Unhappy with this Mr B brought the complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They said that there was evidence Mr B had 
driven more than 2,000 miles in the car, and that he had told the business throughout the 
complaint process that he had continued to use the car, despite being warned it was 
dangerous and could overheat and catch fire. They felt that the rejection offered by the 
business was fair, and that no further compensation should be due. 
Mr B didnt agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. He 
felt he should also get compensation for distress and inconvenience and should be refunded 
his car insurance premiums and cancellation fee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
Both parties agree that the car was not of satisfactory quality, so there is no need for me to 
comment further on this. There were some discussion around whether the car should be 
rejected or repaired, with Mr Bs views on this appearing to change at different times.
The independent report provided stated that the car would most likely need a replacement 
engine to resolve the problems. The car was then taken back by the dealership to attempt 
repairs, but they came to the same conclusion, that it would need a replacement engine. 
I am satisfied therefore that it was not economically viable to repair the car. Rejecting it was 
the fairest option for all parties. 
Ive then moved on to consider the rejection carried out by Advantage, and whether this was 
done fairly and with fair compensation. Mr B has said that he wants compensation for the 
inconvenience and his insurance costs back for the three months. 
If I was being asked to decide upon redress for a rejection which hadnt yet happened, I 
would consider a number of things, so I will go through that list, and compare what 
Advantage have offered to what I would expect to see. 
Any deposit paid for the vehicle should be returned to the consumer. There was no deposit 
in this case, so there is no need to consider this further. The credit agreement should be 
removed from the consumers credit file if appropriate. This has happened here, and I am 
persuaded that this is fair. I dont think it would improve Mr Bs credit file to have an 
agreement noted down as being over 60 months but closed after three months when he had 
made no payments. 
Id then expect to consider the monthly payments made on the agreement, and whether 
these were paid, whether the consumer had some use of the car, whether a fair usage 
charge has been made and whether the use of the car was impaired in any way. 
In Mr Bs circumstances, he actually made no monthly payments. But he used the car for the 
three months he had it, covering over 2,000 miles. It would be fair for the business to make a 
charge in these circumstances for fair usage of the car, but they have not done so. 
I would then consider any other costs incurred by Mr B, along with any compensation for the 
distress or inconvenience caused to him. 
With regards to costs, Mr B has requested a refund of his insurance premiums and 
cancellation fee. However, Im not persuaded that this would be fair. Mr B has used the car 
for the period he had it and would be required to insure the car. The rejection has been 
handled in a timely fashion by Advantage, so Im not persuaded that it would be fair to ask 
Advantage to refund these costs. Mr B provided us with evidence of his insurance costs, but 
only compared to his previous car. They were higher than for his previous car, but theres no 
indication of an excessive cancellation charge. Overall, I am not persuaded that insurance 
costs should be refunded to Mr B.
With regards to distress and inconvenience. Mr B has confirmed there was inconvenience 
caused to him because he needed a reliable car to help him transport elderly relatives, and 
to allow him to work. Hes said he turned down work because of the problems with the car 
but hasnt been able to provide any evidence of this. Its also clear that he did continue to 
use the car. But I agree he has suffered some distress and inconvenience here. 
But in deciding whether this warrants a further payment, I am considering this distress and 
inconvenience alongside the rest of the package provided by Advantage for his rejection of 
the car. It would have been fair for Advantage to make a charge for his usage of the car 
because Mr B drove the car for three months and over 2,000 miles, without making any payments for it. As already discussed, Advantage have not made any charge for this usage. 
I am persuaded that allowing this usage without charge is a greater financial benefit when 
compared to any payment I would expect to see awarded for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B. It wouldnt be fair for me to separately compensate Mr B for the 
inconvenience, without considering that it would also be fair for Mr B to have been charged 
for his usage of the car. 
Mr B has had use of the car at no cost for three months, without making approximately £668 
in monthly payments. Whilst I think this usage has been impaired due to the problems the 
car was having, he has still been able to drive the car for 2,000 miles over the three months. 
As such, I am satisfied that the overall package offered by Advantage is fair. The amount of 
money that Mr B has not had to pay them for fair usage of the car would be a larger amount 
than any payment I might have chosen to award in this case for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered. 
 As such, I dont think Advantage need to do any more here. Mr B didnt make any payments 
for his use of the car in the three months he had it, but he was able to use it. Its fair for him 
to have to pay for his car insurance therefore, and I dont think it would be fair for Advantage 
to have to compensate him further when hes made no payments for his use of the car. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman