DRN-4358757
The complaint
J complain DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have declined their claim for 
costs under their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
J had an agricultural tenancy that came to an end in November 2021. In December 2021 
they served notice on their landlord under the Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 
seeking compensation for improvements theyd made during the tenancy. Although the 
landlord originally agreed the improvements, and J had had the improvements professionally 
valued, the landlord went back on the agreement.
J had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
(DAS). In February 2022 they made a claim for cover under the Arbitration and Agricultural 
Scottish Land Court hearings section of their policy.
Js initial intention was to take the claim to court. And Js solicitors asked for confirmation the 
policy covered all legal fees to prepare for and attend the hearings.
DAS accepted the claim. They said J could continue to instruct their existing solicitors on the 
understanding costs theyd already incurred wouldnt be covered, the solicitors must accept 
their standard terms of appointment and there must be reasonable prospects of success. 
The claim and legal case went ahead on that basis. Proceedings were issued in April 2022. 
Later that month Js solicitors updated DAS. They explained the landlord was engaging and 
agreeable to appointing two valuers and an oversman to arrive at a contractually binding 
valuation figure that [the landlord] will then pay, which would resolve matters. They asked 
DAS for authority to take that option rather than continuing with the proceedings. DAS 
authorised Js solicitors to go ahead on the understanding recovery of costs would be part of 
any settlement.
In mid-May 2022 Js solicitors advised the landlord was refusing to pay interest and court 
fees J required. They thought the case might need to go back to court. And they asked DAS 
for confirmation they could take that step and costs would be covered. DAS agreed and 
asked the solicitors to get back to them once the hearing had concluded.
In late June DAS asked for an update. In early August the solicitors reported the dispute had 
been settled out of court. They asked DAS to confirm whether J could claim their costs on 
the policy. DAS said the policy excluded costs and expenses incurred where the dispute was 
settled and agreed before an arbitration or hearing took place.
The solicitors then explained, in summary, that a claim had been lodged at court. But the 
parties had agreed theyd each appoint a valuer to try and reach agreement about Js claims 
as well as an oversman to resolve any disputes. Since the valuers hadnt been able to reach 
agreement, the oversman had made the final decision about the compensation the landlord 
should pay to J. So, although the dispute had been resolved outside court, there had been a 
form of arbitration.
DAS said theyd review policy cover. They required the solicitors to provide a detailed 
breakdown of their costs for that to happen. The breakdown was sent to DAS in December 
2022. And in February 2023 DAS continued to decline the claim on grounds the dispute had 
settled by agreement and the policy didnt provide cover in those circumstances.
J complained. DAS stood by their decision. Since J didnt agree, they brought their complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said, 
broadly, the dispute was settled at arbitration; there was cover under the policy for 
arbitration; and DAS should pay the claim. She noted J had also complained about delays by 
DAS in dealing with the claim. DAS had accepted responsibility for that and offered 
compensation of £200, which our investigator thought was fair and reasonable.
J accepted our investigators view. DAS didnt agree they should pay the claim, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of 
which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to broadly the same outcome as our investigator. Since my reasons and the 
redress I think is fair are partly different, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties 
the chance to comment before I issue a final decision.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules, we expect insurers to consider claims promptly 
and fairly, and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ill consider Js complaint against that 
background. The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy.
J had LEI cover for legal expenses up to a certain limit for certain insured events, subject to 
the terms, conditions and exclusions set out in the policy.
DAS accepted Js claim was covered under the Arbitration and Agricultural Scottish Land 
Court Hearings section of the LEI policy. They pointed out at the time of the claim that the 
cover was for representation at arbitration or at hearings of the Scottish Land Court, relating 
to disputes arising out of a tenancy or lease regulated by the 1991 Agricultural Holdings 
(Scotland) Act or the 2003 Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act (the Acts).
DAS also noted arbitration included determination by an independent expert or mediation if 
the tenancy agreement said that was the only way of resolving the dispute. And theyve 
relied on that to decline Js claim. I havent seen any such clause in the agreements J had 
with the landlord. But I dont think that matters since thats not the process that was followed 
to resolve Js dispute with the landlord.
Although the solicitors initially said the dispute had been settled, they explained soon 
afterwards the process that had been followed was a form of arbitration.Arbitration isnt defined in the policy. What happened seems to have followed the process 
set out in the Acts relating to arbitration as an alternative to court. Even if Im wrong about 
that, I think the process was in line with common dictionary definitions of arbitration 
including: the process of solving an argument between people by helping them to agree to 
an acceptable solution (Cambridge) and the judging of a dispute between people or groups 
by someone who is not involved (Collins).
The parties reached an agreement to go to arbitration, but they didnt reach an agreement 
about the terms of settlement. As the solicitors explained to DAS, the process followed 
involved each party appointing an arbiter. In the event the arbiters couldnt reach agreement, 
the matter would be determined by the oversman  the final arbiter. From the information J 
have provided, I can see the oversman reached the final decision. And the arbiters signed 
an agreement to confirm the dispute had been resolved based on the oversmans 
determination.
Bearing all of the above in mind, I think the dispute was resolved through arbitration. And the 
policy responds. DAS should therefore meet Js claim for the costs they incurred from when 
DAS agreed to the appointment of Js solicitors, in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
Ive considered the time things took. I note J were concerned about delays in DAS 
responding to the costs information their solicitors had provided. They did so outside the 
deadline theyd set themselves. I think the £200 DAS offered is fair to compensate J for the 
inconvenience that caused. So, I wont ask DAS to pay any more than that.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited to:
1. Meet Js claim for costs from the date DAS agreed the appointment of their solicitors 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
2. Pay simple interest at the rate of 8 per cent a year on any costs J have already paid, 
and which are payable by DAS under the policy, from the date J paid them until the 
date DAS reimburse them, subject to J providing proof of payment.
3. Pay J £200 compensation.
Developments
J accepted my provisional decision and DAS failed to respond. So, Ill go on to give my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since theres no new information to consider, I see no reason to change my mind about this 
complaint. So, I uphold the complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I see no reason to change my mind about how DAS should put things right as set out in my 
provisional decision.My final decision
I uphold Js complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to:
1. Meet Js claim for costs from the date DAS agreed the appointment of their solicitors 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
2. Pay simple interest at the rate of 8 per cent a year on any costs J have already paid, 
and which are payable by DAS under the policy, from the date J paid them until the 
date DAS reimburse them, subject to J providing proof of payment.
3. Pay J £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman