DRN-3220010
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a payment he made. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr A says that on 11 August 2011 he rented car from a third party to this complaint who I will 
call S. However, when he got there, S offered him a different car to the one hed requested. 
Mr A rejected the car and S provided him with another one that he was happy with. Mr A 
says, he didnt drive the original car he was offered; as such, shouldnt have been charged 
for it. However, when he checked his bank statement, he found that he had been charged 
twice. So, Mr A told Barclays and it raised a chargeback request.
I should explain that Ive not investigated Mr As dispute with the S (as I dont have the 
power to do so), Ive only considering the complaint he raised against Barclays. Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here; and that is whether Barclays acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by not giving Mr A a refund?  
Mr A raised his concerns with Barclays on 20 August 2021, and Barclays looked to see if it 
could provide a refund under the chargeback rules. A chargeback is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes can be resolved between card issuers, such as Barclays, and 
merchants, such as S. 
These disputes are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules. In certain 
circumstances, the process provides a way for Barclays to refund the disputed payments 
made by Mr A. A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The company that Mr A paid the 
money to, S, can defend any chargeback claim. When that happens, Barclays can pursue it 
further through the chargeback scheme. Unlike the provisions of S75, chargebacks arent a 
legal right. They are a voluntary set of rules laid down by the relevant card scheme. 
I have no power to direct a card scheme to amend or waive these rules. Theres no 
obligation on Barclays to submit a chargeback or pursue it further if its then defended. But 
I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists -
and theres a reasonable prospect of success. So, Ive thought about whether Barclays 
acted fairly and reasonably in the actions it took.
I am pleased to see that in this case Barclays did raise a chargeback dispute with S on      
20 August 2020. At this stage, Barclays temporary credited Mr As account with £228.00, but 
this was pending the outcome of the dispute raised with S. Barclays has provided evidence 
to show that on 21 September 2020, S provided evidence to defend the chargeback, and 
Barclays says this was sent to Mr A to review. I have seen evidence that confirms this 
happened, and that Barclays had explained to Mr A that  he had 10 days from the date of the 
letter (21 September 2020). I cant see that Barclays received a response from Mr A, so the 
dispute was closed; and the temporary funds were debited from his account on 
4 January 2021.
Its not in dispute that Barclays didnt receive a response from Mr A within the 10-day period 
outlined in its letter. Mr A says this was due to him not receiving the letter from Barclays. 
Barclays have provided me with its contact notes showing the letter was sent, and a copy of 
the letter showing the correct address for Mr A. So, while I dont dispute Mr As version of 
events, I am satisfied Barclays sent the letter to Mr A and I cant hold it responsible for the 
failings of the postal service. 
As I have already highlighted, the card scheme set the rules and it is up to Barclays to 
adhere to them. In this case, Barclays set a 10-day r deadline to allow it enough time to 
consider any response received from Mr A and challenge S version of events. As the 
timeframe wasnt met, and it didnt receive a response, the dispute was closed. Due to 
passage of time, Barclays wouldnt be able to re-challenge this at this stage, again this is 
due to the card schemes rules.
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly that the evidence he presented showed he didnt use the car 
- and as such shouldnt have been charged for it. And I appreciate why he feels so strongly 
about this. But again, my decision isnt on the actions of S. Having considered Barclays 
actions when Mr A asked it to raise a chargeback, I have to put aside my natural feelings of 
empathy and look at this case impartially and fairly based on the evidence. Having done so, 
Im satisfied Barclays hasnt treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman