DRN-2031718
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a transaction that 
wasnt authorised from a credit card account they both use.
What happened
Mr B explains they were on holiday abroad and that he made genuine transactions with his 
credit card. But he says he didnt make a payment of £1,099.14 (in sterling equivalent before 
fees) on 27 November 2019. He contacted NatWest when he returned home and is unhappy 
about the way in which it dealt with his complaint.
NatWest said it wouldnt be refunding this payment. It said that it was made when the chip 
on the card was read and the correct PIN entered. It said it had taken into account all the 
relevant information and this transaction hadnt triggered any fraud alert at the time. NatWest 
accepted that it had dealt poorly when Mr B initially contacted it and there was a delay 
before it investigated his complaint. So, it paid him £50 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr B had told her that his 
card was kept securely and on his person. He hadnt disclosed his PIN to anyone, and     
Mrs B had her own card on the account. He had made genuine payments before and after 
this disputed one. And if a fraudster had the card shed have expected further attempts to be 
made. So, she considered Mr B was responsible for this payment. And that applied under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 even if say the merchant had somehow 
overcharged him when the card and PIN had been entered.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that he didnt authorise this payment and hadnt forgotten about a 
payment of this size. He cant explain how the card and PIN were used. But he asked just 
what he was supposed to have bought for this amount on a holiday and was unhappy that 
NatWest couldnt tell him more about this. And he emphasised that he hadnt had any similar 
issues in 30 years of banking with NatWest. Mr B said that this didnt match his spending 
pattern and he wanted to know why he wasnt alerted to this large payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as is 
the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr B either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as NatWest says?
Im satisfied from the audit report and information that NatWest has provided that this 
payment was authenticated when the chip on Mr Bs card was read and the correct PIN 
entered. Weve not seen evidence of it being possible to clone the chip on a card for general 
use. And here if that had somehow happened Id have expected much more attempted use 
of the card.
The issue is whether Mr B consented to the payment and so authorised it either by using the 
card himself or allowing someone else to. I fully appreciate that he said he didnt. I wont be 
able to say exactly what happened and Ill be deciding on what I think is most likely.
The difficulty here is identifying a way in which an unknown third party could have had 
access to his card and PIN. Its possible someone could have observed him entering the PIN 
for a genuine payment. But Mr B doesnt recall his card being out of his possession. And it 
would be unlikely that someone could have taken the card and then replaced it without him 
knowing. Again, a person in possession of a usable card and the PIN would likely have tried 
to make more payments and not to risk returning the card. 
Mr B is adamant that he has no knowledge of the merchant involved. I know NatWest told 
him the merchant was registered in the business area of electronic equipment. One 
possibility could have been if that merchant possibly trading under a different name had 
overcharged him for a smaller transaction. But when Mr B went through the events of that 
day on holiday his memory seemed vivid and he had no recall of any other payment. If a 
merchant had in some way overcharged him say by distracting him from the amount on the 
terminal hed still be responsible for the payment having entered his card and PIN.
I know Mr B wants NatWest to tell him what hes supposed to have bought. But that 
information isnt captured as part of the payment. And I wouldnt expect NatWest to 
investigate that further  that would be something for the relevant authorities although I 
realise how impractical that would have been once Mr B had left the country abroad.
I need to decide whether its reasonable for NatWest to hold Mr B responsible for the 
payment. And Im afraid I think it is and the most likely explanation is that this payment was 
authorised. Having made that finding I dont think if would necessarily have made a 
difference if Mr B had been alerted to the payment. And in any event NatWest has also said 
that it didnt trigger any fraud alert and nor was it part of any known fraud trend.
I fully understand how disappointed Mr B and Mrs B will be by my conclusions in this case 
given the amount at stake.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman