DRN-2878902
The complaint
Mr C complains that N26 Bank GmbH are holding him liable for transactions on his account 
that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr C says that in October 2019 his wallet (containing his N26 debit card along with a number 
of other cards), phone and passport were stolen from him. Around a week after the theft 
Mr C reported this to N26, he says the delay in reporting was so he could source a 
replacement phone. He reported that hed been online and had noticed transactions (both 
credits and withdrawals / spending) on his account that he didnt recognise.
Mr C says that £600 had been transferred from his account with another bank to his N26 
account before being withdrawn and that this represented his financial loss. He would like 
N26 to reimburse him this amount. 
N26 looked into what Mr C had said and declined to refund him. In summary they said they 
believed Mr C was either responsible for the withdrawals or hed been grossly negligent with 
his security details. Being unhappy with this Mr C referred the matter to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think N26 
had acted unfairly and didnt recommend that they needed to do anything further. Mr C 
disagrees, he is adamant he didnt make these withdrawals and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr C, so Ill explain why. 
My role here isnt to investigate or explain exactly what has happened. I must decide, based 
on the available evidence, whether N26s decision to hold Mr C liable for the transactions he 
disputes is fair and reasonable. 
The relevant regulations say that generally customers are liable for authorised payments and 
banks for unauthorised payments. Customers can, however, be liable for unauthorised 
payments if theyve failed with gross negligence or intent to keep their security credentials 
safe and secure. 
In the circumstances here N26 decided that Mr C must have either authorised the payments 
or been grossly negligent with his details to enable them to take place. I dont think that was 
an unreasonable conclusion. Our investigator has already set out detailed reasoning which I 
wont repeat again. I agree with what was said and I find the following points most 
persuasive:
There is no plausible point of compromise for the PIN number associated with Mr Cs 
card. This would have been required to make the ATM withdrawals. 
Mr C says his phone was protected with a passcode and biometric authentication. 
There is likewise no plausible point of compromise or explanation for how this might 
have been bypassed.  
Only one device can be linked to the N26 account at any given time. A new device 
was paired around the relevant time. But any change of device requires authorisation 
on the original one (Mr Cs phone). And logging into that required knowledge of the 
existing password or provision of biometric data (as well as the passcode or 
biometrics to even open the phone). I know Mr C says his emails were hacked and 
suspects this is how his password might have been changed. But there is no 
evidence from N26 to support that there was a password change or that this is what 
took place. Mr Cs own testimony is that he was later able to log in to see the 
disputed transactions which also doesnt support that a third party had changed his 
password. Its difficult to understand how a third party could have achieved this.
The same IP Address was used for two different online chats with N26. Mr C says 
one of these wasnt him despite the IP Address being the same. Its not likely that an 
unknown third party would be contacting N26 about Mr Cs account from the same IP 
Address. 
I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling on the matter and the fact that he says other banks 
have accepted there was fraud and have refunded him. Ultimately, I cant know with 100% 
certainty what happened, and I dont need to to decide this complaint. Im more persuaded 
by N26s technical evidence than I am by his testimony. So, on balance, I dont think the 
conclusion N26 reached was unreasonable and Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman