DRN-3684995
The complaint
Ms G has complained about the approach taken by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva)
regarding boiler replacement under her home emergency insurance policy.
There are parties connected to Aviva who have been involved in this case, however for ease
of reference, I refer to Aviva only in this provisional decision.
What happened
Ms G held an insurance policy with Aviva at the relevant time. Her policy had been
automatically renewed in April 2020. The policy covered her for gas central heating
breakdown cover as well as an annual gas boiler service. In November 2020, Ms Gs boiler
was due for a service. Following their visit, Avivas engineer deemed the boiler to be beyond
economical repair (BER). The following day, Aviva contacted Ms G to confirm that the boiler
would be replaced. Ms G was unhappy with the replacement quote and didnt consider this
to be a like for like offer. Aviva also said that Ms G would have to pay for the installation cost
as the boiler was over seven years old. Aviva subsequently cancelled the insurance policy.
In early January 2021, Ms G was again in contact with Aviva and it explained that Ms G
would be notified of the installation cost, however Ms G says that she heard nothing further.
In mid-February, Avivas boiler supplier telephoned to arrange a visit. A week later, Aviva
explained that it wouldnt be replacing Ms Gs boiler with an identical boiler, but with a boiler
supplied by the company with whom it had an agreement. Ms G was unhappy and identified
two new versions of the existing boiler and asked for one of these be supplied. Aviva then
gave Ms G the option to purchase her own boiler with Aviva contributing to the cost of the
boiler but not installation. There has since been a deadlock as to the way forward.
Towards the end of March 2021, Ms G wrote to complain to Aviva about the delay in
provision of a replacement boiler. She also complained about its failure to provide temporary
electric heaters in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. She again referred to her
preferred make and models or a boiler which provided the same heating and hot water
requirements as her existing boiler. She also offered to purchase the boiler herself if Aviva
provided the funds upfront as shed sourced a boiler of similar specification to her existing
one. In May 2021, representatives from Avivas boiler supplier visited Ms Gs property to
progress matters however the deadlock continued. Ms G followed up her previous
correspondence in June and July 2021 and complained that Aviva was responsible for the
boiler installation as her existing boiler was only six years old when it was deemed to be
BER. She also made a request for compensation.
Ms G remained unhappy with Avivas response to her complaint. She therefore referred her 
complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint and considered
that Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in accepting its engineers view that the boiler
offered by Aviva met the needs for a replacement boiler. She also took the view that it hadnt
been unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to decline to meet the cost of installation for Ms Gs 
chosen alternatives. This was because, under the policy, installation costs would be paid if
the boiler was less than seven years old. From our investigators further enquiries, the
manufacturer of the boiler had indicated that the only way they could be certain of date of
manufacture was from looking at the commissioning document from the time the boiler was
installed. Our investigator therefore said that unfortunately, she couldnt be sure if the boiler
was less than seven years old, and in the circumstances, she didnt think she could fairly ask
Aviva to pay the installation costs.
Our investigator did however uphold one of the elements of claim relating to temporary
heaters. She said that Ms G should send Aviva the receipts for the temporary heaters and
pay for a minimum of two heaters and pay interest on them from the date they were
purchased. She also thought that, although it wasnt specified in the policy, that Aviva should
pay for electricity used by the temporary heaters for the period between January to March
2021 where she felt that Aviva were responsible for delays, again with interest.
Ms G remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and the matter was therefore 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In August 2022, I issued 
a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether Aviva applied the terms and conditions of Ms
Gs policy and provided its service in a fair and reasonable manner. The starting point for my
consideration will therefore be the specific terms and conditions in the policy document.
These state as follows: -
Under the heading of what is insured in relation to the gas boiler, it states: -
Beyond Economical Repair (BER)
If the boiler is BER and the boiler is under 7 years of age, we will replace it
If the boiler is over 7 years of age we will source, replace and install a new boiler, but you
will be required to pay for the installation costs
Beyond Economical Repair (BER) Upon making a claim, the total cost of parts (including
VAT) required to repair the boiler will be determined by us using reputable suppliers if this
cost exceeds 85% of the manufacturer's current retail price (or if this is not available, the
average current retail price available through leading UK suppliers) for a boiler of the same
or similar make and model to your boiler or the then current version of your boiler, it will be
deemed to be BER.
Temporary heaters: We will deliver two temporary electrical heaters to your home, in the
event that we are unable to attend within the same day or next day of your claim being
raised. The heaters will not have to be returned to us. Any and all costs relating to the use of
the heaters are not covered by us or the underwriter. Please bear in mind that these heaters
are only temporary and should not be used as a permanent source of heating.
Obsolete parts and BER - after 6 months - if upon making a claim after the first 6 months of
adding a boiler product to your agreement, your boiler is deemed to be BER or the parts
required to fix your boiler are obsolete and the boiler is less than 7 years old, we will source,
replace and install a new boiler. If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7
years or older, we will source, replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay
the installation costs. We will provide for you, a quote for this work. The new boiler will
provide the same heating and hot water requirements as your existing boiler and will match
your existing type of boiler e g a combination boiler will be replaced with a combination boiler
and a 'heat only' boiler will be replaced with a heat only boiler. The boiler will be a modem
boiler of a sufficient size for your property. It will not be like for like replacement of the
existing boiler and we cannot guarantee that the replacement boiler will be fitted in the same
place. Replacements will meet all current statutory requirements and system upgrade costs
are not included.If we are unable to contact you once your boiler has been deemed BER, we will write to
inform you, giving you 14 days to contact us to advise us if you wish to proceed with a
replacement boiler and installation with HomeServe. Once your boiler has been replaced or
if you have not contacted us, you will be transferred to a similar policy without cover for your
gas boilerIf a similar policy without gas boiler and/or gas central heating is not available,
your policy will be cancelled in accordance with the procedure outlined in section A, under
the heading How can my policy be cancelled?
Ms G has set out the different elements of her complaint. On the key issue, Ms G was
unhappy with what she considered to be Avivas failure to progress her claim in relation to
installation of a replacement boiler under the terms and conditions of her policy. She
expected the following: - the new boiler will provide the same heating and hot water
requirements as my existing boiler. She said that Aviva told her that a replacement boiler
would only be supplied from a company with whom Aviva had an agreement, although this
had not been explained in the policy.
She said that Aviva had incorrectly stated that her boiler was 16 years old and due to the
provisions of the policy, that she was responsible for the installation costs for a new boiler.
Ms G states that the boiler was six years old at the date that Aviva deemed it to be BER and
not 16. She produced an e-mail from the manufacturer dated June 2021 which confirmed
that it was manufactured towards the end of 2014. Ms G has since produced another e-mail
from the manufacturer which confirms this point. It states that the relevant serial number;
was manufactured in the 49th week of 2014. The manufacturing date is not on the
commissioning documents. Serial numbers/Data Plates are put on boilers at manufacturing
and are each individual to every single boiler.
Ms G was unhappy with the replacement boiler identified by Aviva. She didnt think it was
equivalent to her existing boiler and she thought it would be costly to maintain. According to
her research, it exceeded the kilowattage of her existing boiler. She also considered that it
wasnt a new type of boiler and was manufactured in around 2013. As to the boilers shed
brought to Avivas attention, she said these were very likely to have similar components to
her existing boiler which she thought would easily connect to existing pipe work and
therefore be easier and more cost-effective to install. Ultimately, she sourced a boiler with an
output close to that of her existing boiler at a cost of just over £2,500 plus VAT.
Ms G stated that no temporary electric heaters were offered as specified in the policy and
she had to source her own heaters. Ms G also stated that she and her family had to incur
extra electricity costs through the winter months as a result.
As to service issues, Ms G denied that shed been called three times in December 2020 by
Avivas boiler supplier about a possible appointment and that there were no missed calls.
She maintained that Avivas representative said that its engineer wasnt qualified to declare
the boiler to be BER. She also complained about the service provided by Aviva and the way
her claim was handled. She felt that that more importance has been given to saving costs
rather than providing good customer service. She complained about the lack of
consideration given to the fact that she and her family had been without heating for eight
months.
Ms G also thought that Aviva failed to explain who was responsible for dealing with
installation of a replacement boiler. She also felt that there was a lack of clarity with different
persons and departments involved on each contact so that she had to re-explain everything
at length. She said that Aviva failed to pass her complaint to senior staff and that shed had
no communication following a number of complaints to Avivas customer services. In
summary, she felt that Aviva was entirely responsible for the delay over many months.Ms G described the conditions that she and her family faced. She said that they were without
a boiler throughout the coldest months of the year. Her family included two vulnerable
persons who were affected by the lack of heating;- The unresolved situation has caused me
and my family extreme discomfort and inconvenience during the very cold period of
November 2020 to April 2021 and continuing to date. To date we are not able to comfortably
use areas of the house, in particular the living/dining room, because of lack of heating.
Finally, Ms G didnt consider that Aviva should have cancelled her policy and felt that this
constituted a breach of contract. In summary, Ms G wished to be reimbursed for the cost of
the new boiler which shed been able to source. She said she was willing to arrange
installation at a total cost of nearly £3,420 including VAT. She was also looking to receive
compensation of £4,800, increasing by £600 per month until the matter was resolved for the
additional expense, discomfort and inconvenience suffered. She hadnt accepted Avivas
offer of compensation of £360 as she said that the issue of the replacement boiler and
installation was yet to be resolved.
Avivas final response letter referred to some of the above issues. It said that its boiler
suppliers had tried to call Ms G on three occasions in December 2020 to arrange an
appointment to carry out a survey. It said that it had also experienced similar difficulties in
trying to contact Ms G. As to the discussion in January 2021, this was regarding a separate
matter. When Ms G contacted them in mid-February 2021, the suppliers advised Aviva that
Ms G refused the survey and told them the make of boiler she wanted, however she
eventually agreed for a survey to be carried out in April 2021. It acknowledged that Ms G
wasnt offered temporary heaters and it asked for these receipts to assess this for a
reimbursement. It stated that the engineer who deemed the boiler BER was qualified to do
so and that this was a part of their job.
As to the policy, Aviva maintained that the terms and conditions of the policy entitled it to
cancel the policy following a BER event. It apologised for any delays in its boiler supplier
contacting Ms G and it had asked her to contact the suppliers herself to discuss next steps.
Alternatively, it advised that should Ms G; wish for a boiler to be installed by a private
engineer she would need to send us her invoice for us to contribute towards the cost of the
boiler only (this is all we are obliged to offer under the policy). It was explained that the
payment awarded would be based on the boiler we would have installed under the claim.
Aviva said it was happy to contribute towards the cost of a new boiler, up to the amount it
would have incurred for the boiler it was looking to provide, although it said it would need to:-
assess a copy of the engineers report or invoice to provide the contribution. Aviva have now
indicated that they will pay any installation costs Ms G has incurred. It says it will not,
however, pay for any system changes or upgrades which may have been carried out.
Avivas case notes show that its representative stated that she wouldnt have advised that
the engineer wasnt qualified to deem a boiler BER as this was their job. She said that it may
have been mentioned that they are not surveyors and which boiler to offer was a matter for a
surveyor to advise once a survey was done. The notes indicate that Ms G didnt want the
survey to be carried out as she wanted a different make of boiler and the job was therefore
closed. As for installation, it acknowledged that even for the boiler recommended by the
boiler suppliers, they do not have an engineer in your area to fit the boiler so you would
have to get a private engineer to install yourself.
With regard to the age of the boiler, Aviva also contacted the manufacturer which stated that
it considered that the serial number was incorrect as the numbers they use consisted of a
mixture of letters and numbers. Its response stated as follows: - I have enquired and the
boiler was [e]ither manufactured wk44 2010 or in 2014, the serial and number ageing
convention of the time is difficult to interpret 100% which one it is. The originalcommissioning document if still with the unit/on file would give the actual commissioning
date for when the boiler was originally put into use.
As to service issues, Aviva said it would apologise if its representative advised that the boiler
supplier didnt offer boilers over 32kw, as this was not the case. It also agreed there had
been a delay with the supplier booking an appointment following Ms G saying she was
happy for the survey to be carried out. An inspection finally took place in May 2021 when a
particular boiler was recommended, on a supply-only basis due to a lack of suitable
engineers in the area. Due to the delays experienced during the claim and the 
inconvenience this caused, Aviva said it had offered £360 in compensation. It didnt accept
however that it was responsible for all delays.
Ive considered all the documents and submissions from the parties in the light of the policy
terms and conditions and now provide my provisional conclusions on the various elements of
Ms Gs complaint as underlined below: -
Replacement boiler
Firstly, I note that Ms G has questioned whether the boiler was beyond economical repair
(BER). On the available evidence, I accept however that the engineer was qualified to
reach the judgment that the boiler was BER.
I understand that Ms G has now sourced a new boiler which is to her satisfaction. Aviva
have agreed to pay a sum towards the purchase of this boiler. This sum being the cost of the
boiler which it had proposed for the property. The policy does not require Aviva to provide
the option of payment of a contribution towards a boiler of the policy holders choice of boiler
rather than provision of the insurers recommended boiler. Im satisfied that Aviva has acted
in a fair and reasonable manner by providing this option in the circumstances.
As to the replacement boiler recommended by Aviva, provisionally, Im satisfied that Aviva
was acting within its policy terms to recommend a boiler made by a different manufacturer to
the original boiler. Under the provisions of the policy, Aviva needed to supply a boiler which
provided the same heating and hot water requirements as the existing boiler. Avivas
engineer recommended a boiler which it says is: - a modem boiler of a sufficient size for
your property. It will not be like for like replacement of the existing boiler. Based on the
available evidence and the only available expert report, I cant say that Aviva acted in an
unfair or unreasonable manner in recommending the boiler in question and in applying the
terms and conditions of the policy in this manner.
This is because the expert who attended Ms Gs property provided an expert opinion/report
as to suitability of a certain boiler for Ms Gs property. This is the central question and the
terms and conditions of the policy are clear that a like for like replacement will not
necessarily be supplied. What needs to be supplied is a boiler which is sufficient for the
property, to provide the same heating and hot water capabilities as the existing boiler. Its
clear that the boiler offered by Aviva didnt meet with Ms Gs approval and she has supplied
negative reviews for the boiler. Without authoritative expert evidence that the recommended
boiler wasnt suitable however, Im unable to say that it was unreasonable for Aviva to have
offered this option and I consider that it was fair for Aviva to rely on the recommendations for
a replacement boiler.
As Aviva had indicated that it would be content to contribute towards Ms Gs preferred boiler,
I consider that this was a fair and reasonable response to her complaint.
Installation of new boilerIts noted that Aviva had initially stated that it couldnt install a boiler in any event due to lack
of engineers in the area and Mrs G had said that she would be happy to arrange for
installation. The outstanding issue had been the issue of the cost of installation, although
Aviva has since indicated that it would meet these costs.
It seems however that boiler installation is yet to happen, due to the on-going disagreement
as to who would be responsible for physical installation as well as the cost of installation. Its
most unfortunate that the manufacturer provided conflicting information to the parties about
the date of manufacture of Ms Gs existing boiler. Its also unfortunate that there was
conflicting information about the importance or otherwise of a commissioning document to
pinpoint the relevant date. Although the manufacturers have told both Aviva and our
Investigator that the date of manufacture could have been 2010 or 2014, it has since
indicated that 2014 is the probable date of manufacture. On the balance of probabilities
therefore, I provisionally conclude that manufacture took place in 2014 and that the boiler
was less than seven years old when it was declared BER by Avivas engineer. This is
because the manufacturer has explained the more recent serial number convention used by
the company which is consistent with its written evidence on two occasions that 2014 was
the date of manufacture.
The consequences of this are that, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy,
Aviva are responsible for installation and installation costs of a replacement boiler. As Aviva
has agreed to pay an appropriate contribution towards Ms Gs selected boiler, I consider that
it would be fair and reasonable for it to also cover the reasonable costs of installation,
notwithstanding Ms Gs preferred make of boiler.
Temporary radiators
Its clear from the terms and conditions of the policy that Aviva should have delivered two
temporary radiators in the circumstances which arose. This didnt happen and Ms G and her
family had to source these themselves. In the circumstances its fair and reasonable that
Aviva should cover the cost of two radiators. Regardless of apportionment of responsibility
for delay, I accept that radiators would have been required for some period and I agree with
our investigator that a fair outcome in this respect would be to reimburse Ms G for two
temporary heaters as per the policy terms with interest from the date that these were
purchased. I also agree with our investigator that, although not specified in the policy that
Aviva should pay an appropriate proportion of the electricity costs reasonably attributable to
the use of two temporary heaters, however I consider that this should be for December 2020
to March 2021.
Standards of service
I have sympathy for the ordeal which Ms G and her family have endured here. Im satisfied
that some of this ordeal has been caused by the delays caused by Aviva failing to provide a
clear, proactive and prompt solution in November and December 2020. In the light of my
findings on the key issues however, what I cannot say that all of the difficulties Ms G and her
family have endured are due to the lack of action by Aviva and there have been
communication issues on both sides.
Where a boiler fails, and an engineer deems the boiler to be BER, a new boiler then needs
to be agreed upon, sourced and installed and I acknowledge that this can take some time.
The very lengthy delay in this case however arises due to a fundamental difference of
understanding as to the meaning of the policy terms and conditions. The insurer ultimately
has the right to choose the make of an appropriate boiler, following the advice of its qualified
engineers and surveyors. Offering Ms G the solution of purchasing her own boiler was a fair
and reasonable solution and so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to award compensation forthis element of Ms Gs service complaint or the delays attributable to this dispute.
Again, on a provisional basis, I note as above that Aviva failed to arrange installation or pay
for installation in accordance with the policy. Although this was partly due to the conflicting
evidence supplied by the manufacturer, I consider that Aviva could have done more to
establish the correct position from the outset. In the circumstances and due to the cost of
installation, its unsurprising that this issue led to a continued deadlock. I consider that this
failure to make reasonable enquiries did add to the delay in resolving this issue and added to
the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms G and her family.
As to the alleged calls made by Avivas representatives in December 2020, Ive received no
call recordings or notes in their regard and make no formal finding. On the balance of
probabilities however I accept that some attempt at contact was made. Nevertheless, I dont
consider that enough was done to ensure that the replacement of Ms Gs boiler was being
progressed or that Aviva was ensuring that they at least provided temporary radiators over
the coldest months. Nor do I consider that Aviva provided adequate support to its policy
holder during this initial period.
I accept that the telephone discussion in early January 2021 may have been about a
separate matter to the one under consideration here. On balance however, I consider that
Aviva told Ms G that its representatives would be in contact with her about a quote for a
boiler and that this didnt happen. Again, I consider that this service failure added to the
concerns and delays.
On the question of cancellation of the policy, I dont consider in the circumstances and on
the basis of the terms and conditions of the policy that it was appropriate for Aviva to have
automatically cancelled Ms Gs policy and this will have caused further concern and distress.
Finally, Ms G felt that the compensation of £360 offered by Aviva didnt recognise the
distress experienced due to lack of heating for her family as well as the distress caused by
this protracted dispute. I recognise that the policy holder does have to take measures to
progress their own claim. In summary however and on a provisional basis, I consider that a
significant proportion of the delay was due to a failure by Aviva to ensure clarity and 
coordination to resolve the issues, and a failure to fairly and reasonably apply the terms and
conditions of the policy.
My provisional conclusion in all the circumstances is that Im minded to uphold the majority
of the elements of Ms Gs complaint. I consider that Aviva should, in addition to providing an
appropriate contribution towards the cost of her new boiler, install the boiler or meet the
reasonable costs of installation. I consider that it should also meet the cost of purchasing two
temporary heaters and the cost of running them during December 2020 to March 2021. I
note Avivas apology and offer of compensation of £360. I dont consider that this adequately
compensates for the delays and lack of clarity and co-ordination in progressing this matter
as well as inappropriate policy cancellation.
I consider that these failures have caused additional distress and inconvenience over and
above that which inevitably occurs if a boiler is deemed BER and I propose to award
compensation in the sum of £650 for these aspects of Ms Gs complaint. On a provisional
basis, I consider this to be the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Ms G and Aviva if they had any further comments or 
evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G provided detailed submissions for my consideration. Firstly, Ms G repeated some of 
the terms and conditions of the policy, noting that it was a legally binding contract. She 
requested that Aviva be required to pay the full cost of a replacement boiler as well as the 
reasonable cost of its installation. She also requested compensation of £650 for the period 
from December 2020 to March 2021 as well as £650 for the period October 2021 to May 
2022 for distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms G said there was an extra cost incurred from the use of electricity in place of gas, to 
include the costs of running the immersion heater for the hot water cylinder from December 
2020 to May 2022. She requested compensation for the reasonable costs of repair or 
replacement following damage to radiators, radiator valves, interconnecting pipework and 
the central heating pump caused as a result of inordinate delay in complying with the Terms 
and Conditions She requested payment of 8% a year simple interest from the dates she 
paid for a replacement boiler and installation, the two radiator heaters and additional 
heaters, as well as electricity to the date of settlement.
Ms G additionally noted that Aviva had quoted for a 42kw boiler whereas the suitable 
replacement boiler was a 46kw boiler. She said that it wasnt possible for two heaters to 
replace the heating requirements of the 20 affected radiators and large rooms. Finally, Ms G 
stated that Aviva delayed taking action from mid-February to May 2021 and confirmed in 
July 2021 that they wouldnt install the boiler which she said was a breach of contract. Added 
to this, she said there was a lack of communication from Aviva despite her letters to it and its 
representatives.
Ive carefully considered all of the further submissions and additional information. This does 
not however alter my provisional decision and the steps I require Aviva to take in providing a 
contribution towards the cost of the new boiler. In coming to this conclusion, Ive considered 
whether there is any additional evidence of lack of suitability of the boiler recommended by 
Aviva, however this is not the case. My final conclusion on this point is therefore; Without 
authoritative expert evidence that the recommended boiler wasnt suitable.., Im unable to 
say that it was unreasonable for Aviva to have offered this option and I consider that it was 
fair for Aviva to rely on the recommendations for a replacement boiler.
As to the costs of installation, this had been recognised in the requirements upon Aviva in 
the provisional decision; I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to also cover 
the reasonable costs of installation, notwithstanding Ms Gs preferred make of boiler. I see 
no reason therefore to alter my provisional conclusion as to installation.
With regard to temporary radiators, I appreciate that Ms G was insuring a large property with 
Aviva and that the impact of lack of heating would be greater in a large property rather than 
a small property. Unfortunately for Ms G, the terms and conditions of the policy didnt 
differentiate between properties in this respect. They were clear as to what should have 
been provided following the events that occurred here and I dont consider that it would be 
fair or reasonable to require Aviva to reimburse Ms G the cost of additional appliances.
Im satisfied that Aviva should pay an appropriate proportion of the electricity costs 
reasonably attributable to the use of two temporary heaters from December 2020 to March 
2021 only. I dont consider that this should extend to use of electricity generally such as the 
costs of running an immersion heater. Whilst electricity costs are likely to have increased, 
the cost of gas usage is likely to have reduced. Aviva has asked what would be deemed an appropriate proportion reasonably attributable to the use of two temporary heaters. As Ms G 
is required to produce a receipt or invoice for two temporary heaters, the specifications for 
such heaters should allow Aviva to calculate a reasonable figure for the proportion of 
electricity costs attributable to their use during winter months. 
As to Ms Gs request for further compensation for damage to radiators, radiator valves, 
pipework and central heating pump, Im not persuaded that there is evidence of such 
damage. If there was any such damage, I dont consider that it could be attributed to Avivas 
handling of this matter. As for the request for additional compensation generally, there were 
other factors at play such as the role of the manufacturer. Ive also noted that there were 
communication issues on both sides. I therefore consider that the level of compensation 
noted in the provisional decision has been set at an appropriate level.
In conclusion, and subject to the points noted above, I remain satisfied that the provisional 
decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter and I uphold Ms Gs 
complaint on that basis as follows.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Gs complaint and require Aviva Insurance
Limited to do the following: -
- to pay a contribution towards Ms Gs replacement boiler on production of a receipt or
invoice for the same within 28 days of her acceptance of a Final Decision. The contribution
to represent the cost of the boiler recommended by Avivas representative
.
- either to arrange for installation itself or to pay the reasonable installation costs of Ms Gs
replacement boiler on production of a receipt or invoice within 28 days of her acceptance of
a Final Decision.
- to pay the cost of two radiators on production of a receipt or invoice within 28 days of
acceptance of a Final Decision and supply of the relevant receipts from Ms G.
- to pay an appropriate proportion of electricity costs reasonably attributable to the use of
temporary heaters for December 2020 to March 2021 on production of electricity bills within
28 days of acceptance of a Final Decision
- to pay 8% a year simple interest from the dates Ms G paid for the replacement boiler,
installation (if this has already occurred), two radiators as well electricity, to the date of
settlement.
- to pay compensation in the sum of £650 for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman