DRN-2099827
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC refuses to refund money he says hes lost having 
fallen victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr M says he attended a seminar, and then met individually, with representatives from a 
company that promised to help him and his wife with succession planning, writing their wills 
and setting up a trust fund. He paid a £2,000 deposit on a charge card and set up a standing 
order from his Barclays current account for a monthly payment of £391.67. 
Mr M says the company never provided the promised services and he raised a complaint 
with Barclays to try to recover five standing order payments, totalling £1,958.35. He says the 
change card provider has already given him a refund. 
Barclays refused to refund the money and wasnt able to recover it from the receiving bank. 
Mr M was unhappy with the banks response, so asked us to help.
Our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong. But Mr M disagreed, so the 
complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr M authorised all five standing order payments even though he may have 
been the victim of a sophisticated scam. He hasnt disputed that he set up the standing order 
and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his 
account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But the matter doesnt end there. Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. As such I think Barclays should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks and 
building societies are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud
With the above in mind, Ive looked at how Mr M used his account prior to setting up the 
standing order and theres nothing that persuades me this or the subsequent, related 
payments were unusual or uncharacteristic for him. As a result I dont think either the setting 
up of the standing order or the payment of such ought to have prompted Barclays to be 
concerned and/or make additional checks before allowing the payment to go through.
I dont think Barclays could have reasonably foreseen the losses Mr M says hes suffered as 
a result of those payments. And I dont think there was anything it could reasonably have 
done to prevent those losses. 
Im also satisfied that, after Mr M reported the scam, Barclays took reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the recipients bank, without undue delay. But, unfortunately, the 
account holder had already withdrawn Mr Ms money by the time he told Barclays about the 
scam. So it wasnt possible for Barclays to recover the money. 
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy that the receiving account holder was able to withdraw the 
money from the account, but thats not something that Barclays had any control over. Nor 
does Barclays have access to that account holders personal details, which Mr M says he 
needs in order to pursue legal action.
Overall, and in all the circumstances, I cant fairly tell Barclays to refund Mr Ms money.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and I make no award against it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman