DRN-2856523
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. Shes 
unhappy with the delay and the service she experienced when she asked Barclays to 
process a chargeback for flights that were cancelled.
What happened
Mrs D purchased some flights in June, July and August 2019 using her Barclays debit card. 
The flights were for a holiday in 2020. The airline cancelled the flights in March 2020 and 
Mrs D was told by the online travel company that shed receive a full refund by 1 May 2020. 
On 14 May shed still not received her refund, so Mrs D contacted Barclays to see whether 
she could seek reimbursement under the chargeback scheme. She told us:
She contacted Barclays and spoke to an advisor who said her dispute had been 
processed and the money would be credited to her account within a few days;
several days later she contacted the bank again and was told shed been mis-
informed, and the online travel company had requested additional time to deal with 
its flight refunds and because of this, the bank wasnt able to request a refund 
through the chargeback scheme;
she complained to the Bank about the service shed received and the delays she was 
experiencing, and it offered her £50 compensation;
shes unhappy with the delays, misinformation and the mis-handling of her complaint 
and she doesnt think the banks offer of £50 compensation reflects the poor service 
shes received.
Barclays confirmed it had upheld Mrs Ds original complaint and it apologised for the 
frustration Mrs D had experienced. It acknowledged that the service it had provided was 
poor and it offered Mrs D £50 compensation in recognition of this. But it says Mrs D hasnt 
accepted its offer.
Barclays explained that it has to follow the chargeback rules and processes as set down by 
Visa. It says it wasnt able to raise a chargeback because the merchant had already 
confirmed it would be providing Mrs D with a refund  so the chance of a successful claim 
was low. Barclays says that the promised refund from the online travel company took longer 
than usual, but Mrs D received her refund on 10 June 2020 when Barclays credited the 
money to her account.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought Barclays offer of £50 
compensation was fair and reasonable. He explained that although he appreciated what 
Barclays had said, he thought the bank couldve raised a chargeback claim for Mrs D, and 
that it couldve done so at the earliest opportunity. But he also recognised that the 
outstanding refund from the online travel company had been paid to Mrs D very shortly 
afterwards.
Our investigator also acknowledged the impact the pandemic had had on Barclays 
operations and the operational challenges it faced during this period. And, taking all this into 
account, he thought the £50 compensation offered by Barclays was fair and in line with what 
he wouldve recommended.
Mrs D disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mrs D says she thinks the offer of 
£50 is very insulting and she wants a payment that reflects the actual inconvenience shes 
experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator  I think this complaint should be upheld and Barclays should pay Mrs D £50 
compensation.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mrs D received from Barclays. This is because although Mrs D disputed payments shed 
made, both parties have now confirmed that full refunds were credited back to Mrs Ds 
current account in June 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Barclays to ask for a payment Mrs D made to 
be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mrs D paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mrs D has ultimately not been provided with the goods and 
services that she originally paid for. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable 
to expect Barclays to raise a chargeback for her, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one 
that is covered within Visas chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it.
In this particular case, Mrs D received her refund from the online travel company within four 
weeks of contacting Barclays. So even if the bank had raised a chargeback when Mrs D first 
contacted it, I dont think she wouldve received a refund any sooner. And, therefore, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs D has lost out because of what Barclays didnt do.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mrs D. 
Shed booked and paid a considerable sum for flights, and from what shes told us, her 
experience in the two months before she contacted Barclays wouldve understandably 
caused her some anxiety. 
But I cant hold Barclays responsible for any of this because the initial problems were caused 
by the airline, and then compounded by the pandemic.I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mrs D first contacted Barclays, dealing 
with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the 
global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive noted that Barclays has already offered Mrs D £50 in recognition of the mistakes it made 
when she first contacted it and it failed to provide her with clear and correct information 
about the chargeback process. And although I wouldve expected Barclays to identify 
vulnerable customers who may need more immediate support and help, from the information 
I have, I dont think Mrs D fell into this category. So, for the reasons Ive given, I think £50 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Barclays to pay Mrs D £50 in recognition of the poor service it provided. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think 
Barclays needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mrs D £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman