DRN-4079512
The complaint
Miss D complains Wise Payments Limited (Wise) closed her account with immediate effect 
and didnt explain why. 
What happened
Miss D has also complained about being scammed, and of a transfer she made to a foreign 
account from her Wise account not being refunded. Both these complaint points will not form 
part of my decision, as they are either being dealt with, or fall under the remit, of another 
ADR (Alternative Dispute Resolution) scheme. 
In March 2022, Miss D told Wise she had been the victim of a scam. Around five days later 
in early April 2022, Wise closed Miss Ds account with immediate effect. Any residual funds 
held in the account were then sent to Miss D a little while later. Unhappy with Wises actions, 
Miss D complained. 
Wise didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint about the account closure. In short, it said it wont be 
reopening her account and it cannot give more information to her about what led to this 
decision due to the way its regulated. 
Wise added that it had acted in line with the terms of the account and relevant regulations. 
Miss D referred her complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into Miss Ds 
complaint, and in summary, they found: 
- Wise has legal and regulatory obligations which requires it to monitor and review its 
customers accounts. Wise doesnt have to give notice or a reason. And the terms 
and conditions allow it to limit the use of an account while undertaking a review 
- Based on the information Wise has provided, it was entitled to close Miss Ds 
account without notice
- But Wise should have notified Miss D as soon as it had closed the account that it had 
done this by email or SMS - and told her about any next steps. But as Miss D found 
out about the closure by contacting Wise herself, it could have saved her the trouble 
and inconvenience of doing so. Because of this Wise should pay Miss D £50 
compensation 
Wise accepted what our Investigator said. But as Miss D did not agree with what our 
Investigator said, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Wise 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Financial businesses in the UK, like Wise, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. Wise is also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means Wise needs 
to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Ive looked at the reasons Wise reviewed Miss Ds account, and Im satisfied it did do in line 
with its obligations. 
Wise is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Wise closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of the account, which Wise and Miss D had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Wise, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. I know Miss D would like to know what those 
reasons are, but as Ive said, the information given to me by Wise is such that we consider it 
should be kept confidential. Id add too that Im not aware of any obligation under which I, or 
Wise, must disclose this. 
So, that means I dont think Wise have acted unfairly or improperly in closing Miss Ds 
account immediately. But I do think Wise has failed to act reasonably by not telling Miss D of 
its decision to do so in a timely way. Miss D only found out about the closure after contacting 
Wise herself. 
I agree that having to do this, wouldve caused her some trouble in the form of 
inconvenience. So I think £50 is fair compensation for the inconvenience suffered.   
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Wise Payments Limited 
to pay Miss D £50 compensation - if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman