DRN-1764766
 
The complaint
Mr D says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover his loan repayments.
What happened
Mr D took out a loan to buy retail goods in 1998. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his loan repayments. The policy cost 97p a month (with the total of premiums charged 
over the course of the loan £71.22) a successful claim on the policy wouldve covered Mr Ds 
loan repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job for up to 
12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld because he thought Mr D 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the cover and thought it provided a useful 
benefit to Mr D.
Mr D disagrees, he says he wouldnt have taken PPI for such a small amount and didnt 
need it. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
The PPI was sold in store when Mr D applied for credit to buy retail goods. AXA have given 
us a copy of the original credit agreement. I can see that the application form has been 
completed on a computer and then printed off for signing. The application contains Mr Ds 
personal details and the details of the loan. I can see that there is a separate section titled 
in bold PROTECTION FOR YOUR PAYMENTS. Within this section I can see a prominent 
X has been placed in the box to take PPI next to the words Yes, I want my Account 
covered by Payment Protection Insurance and just below this in the next section Mr D 
has signed the credit agreement.
I think PPI is presented on the agreement as optional and I think its likely when the sales 
assistant collected Mr Ds details for the credit agreement they asked Mr D whether he 
wanted to take PPI and theres an X in the box because Mr D chose to take it. I think if Mr 
D hadnt agreed to take PPI he wouldve questioned why it was shown on his agreement.
I dont think Mr D was advised to take the cover. What this means is that AXA didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr D, they just gave him information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I cant say whether all the proper information was given. But that being said even if AXA did 
give all the information Mr D needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I 
think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr D says he was entitled to some sick pay and had equity in 
his house he could use to make his repayments if he was unable to work or lost his 
job. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and wouldve been 
readily available. So I dont think knowing this information wouldve changed his 
mind about taking the policy and I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit 
for him in his circumstances. And theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt 
affordable to Mr D. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr D on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman