DRN-3261759
The complaint
Miss A complained to HSBC UK Bank Plc when they failed to reinstate the direct debit to her 
credit card account resulting in interest and charges, and adverse data being reported on her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss A contacted HSBC in April 2020 to request a payment deferral on her credit card 
account with them. Her income had been impacted as a result of the global pandemic. 
HSBC agreed to defer repayments due on her credit card account for the months of April, 
May and June 2020.
In June 2020, Miss A called HSBC. She hadnt realised that interest would continue to be 
charged on the amount she owed on her credit card account during the payment deferral 
period. So, she wanted to cancel the deferral and repay the entire balance owed. HSBC 
agreed to reinstate her direct debit with effect from the payment due in July 2020. They told 
Miss A she could make a payment before by 23 June 2020 to ensure no interest was 
charged.
The payment deferral ended in June 2020. But in August 2020, Miss A noticed that the direct 
debit hadnt been claimed in July, as agreed. So, she called HSBC again. They agreed to 
reinstate the direct debit to clear the entire balance outstanding on her credit card each 
month. HSBC also agreed to refund a £12 late payment fee theyd charged. They said theyd 
remove the arrears reported on Miss As credit card account.
HSBC wrote to Miss A on 27 August 2020 to confirm theyd reinstated the direct debit to her 
credit card account. But they then wrote again on 28 August 2020 to say that the direct debit 
had been cancelled. As a result, Miss A had also incurred interest charges. Miss A wasnt 
happy, so she decided to complain. 
HSBC apologised for their mistake and took details to make a manual payment in 
September 2020. They also ensured the direct debit was set up properly going forward. 
They agreed to refund the interest theyd charged.
Miss A wasnt happy with how HSBC had handled her situation. She said HSBCs action had 
caused her unnecessary stress which had been damaging and upsetting. She decided to 
refer her complaint to this service. 
Having referred her complaint, HSBC offered to pay Miss A compensation of £50 to 
apologise for any distress and inconvenience they may have caused. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Miss As complaint. He agreed HSBC had made mistakes. He 
thought the actions theyd taken to remedy the situation where appropriate here. He also 
thought HSBCs offer of compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Miss A didnt agree with our investigator. She said she would be happy if HSBC would offer 
slightly higher compensation for the distress caused. She said that the adverse information 
reported on her credit file had delayed her mortgage application.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Miss As complaint was passed to me in order to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements.
 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral. 
From what I can establish, HSBC followed the FCAs guidance here and provide a payment 
deferral for April, May and June 2020 following Miss As request. Its not been suggested 
that Miss As credit file was impacted as a direct result of the payment deferral.
The complaint issues centre upon the reinstatement of the direct debit to collect payments 
due on Miss As credit card account after the payment deferral was completed. HSBC have 
confirmed they did make mistakes here. 
Ive seen evidence that Miss A contacted HSBC on multiple occasions to ensure the direct 
debit was reactivated. But HSBC seem to have failed to ensure the direct debit operated as 
intended going forward. Ultimately, the problem was resolved by HSBC. Theyve apologised 
and refunded all charges and interest incurred by Miss A. And I think this was the right thing 
to do here to ensure that Miss A hadnt been financially disadvantaged. HSBC have also 
confirmed that all related adverse data reported to the credit reference agencies has been 
removed. Im pleased HSBC have addressed this aspect too.
HSBC have offered compensation to Miss A of £50. Compensation is a personal thing. What 
is seen as reasonable by one party may not be considered so by another. Miss A did 
experience some inconvenience and distress. But I think the amount offered feels fair in all 
the circumstances here. Having complained, HSBC appear to have acted to put things right. 
I appreciate that Miss A doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in 
order to penalise HSBC for their mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact 
HSBCs mistake had upon Miss A. And I think HSBCs offer does that here.
Miss A also believes that the information reported by HSBC on her credit file led to delays 
with her mortgage application. From the information Ive seen, it appears HSBC acted 
promptly to ensure any adverse data reported was removed. While mortgage providers may 
use this information, when assessing an application from Miss A, their decision to lend would 
be based on a number of variables. Ive not been provided with anything to suggest that any 
delay Miss A experienced was as a direct consequence of HSBCs action here. 
Having considered Miss As complaint, I agree HSBC made mistakes. But I shant be asking 
them to increase their compensation offer.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss As complaint.
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay compensation of £50 to Miss A to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Dave MorganOmbudsman