DRN-2099837
The complaint
X is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim and withdraw his insurance 
cover. 
X brings his complaint through a representative, but for simplicity, Ill refer to all submissions 
as being made by him personally.
What happened
X had an income protection policy with Unum provided by his previous employer. In 
December 2018, this policy ended, and X took a new personal income protection policy. He 
made a claim on that policy a few weeks later in February 2019 as he suffered with chronic 
fatigue syndrome. As part of that claim, Unum discovered that X had been unable to fulfil the 
full duties of his previous role due to this illness and so it decided X had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation as he didnt disclose this prior to taking out the new policy. 
X said this wasnt the case. He accepted that hed suffered with CFS partway through 2018 
and that since his diagnosis, in May 2018, hed been unable to commit to his full-time 
occupation. However, on 1 November 2018, X said hed returned to full time work and so 
Unum had misunderstood the circumstances surrounding the departure from his previous 
employer. 
Unum said it paid Xs previous claim for CFS under the group policy with his old employer. It 
said it paid this claim from May 2018 and stopped making payments at the beginning of 
November when he told it hed returned to full time work. Unum said it was considering a 
subsequent claim under his personal policy when it realised X hadnt been able to fulfil his 
fulltime duties in his previous role when hed returned to work. It said this was important 
because had it known that was the case, then it wouldnt have offered him a new policy, as 
he was still effectively unwell. Unum voided the policy and returned the premiums hed paid 
for it.
Our investigator said she was satisfied X had made a qualifying misrepresentation because 
he failed to disclose this information at the time the new policy was taken in January 2019. 
She recognised X sourced the policy from an IFA, but it was Xs own statement about having 
to take his accrued annual leave in conjunction with reduced responsibilities that gave him 
the ability to return to work in November 2018.
X disagreed with these findings, in summary, he said that its to be expected that his 
responsibilities reduced, and he used up his remaining annual leave entitlement as he was 
effectively working his notice period at that time. He highlighted that CFS is a chronic 
condition and therefore its to be expected that hell suffer with flareups. In essence, Xs 
argument is that he should not be expected to declare this information because he didnt 
think it relevant or that it had any merit. He would like Unum to reinstate his policy and pay 
the claim. And so, its for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators outcome and for many of the same reasons. 
In short, X should not have been offered a policy as the evidence persuades me its most 
likely that he was still too unwell to fulfil the material and substantial duties of his previous 
role. Had Unum fully understood the circumstances surrounding Xs decision to return to his 
previous job in November 2018, it would have realised X was still unable to take on his full 
responsibilities. Unum had no way of knowing this at the time because it was told X had 
returned to work fulltime, and not that concessions effectively had to be made in order to 
make this possible.
There was a wealth of evidence supplied with this case and I know that X made several 
arguments about the way his claim unfolded. There was also a period where Unum 
assessed his claim under the new policy which X was unhappy with. Unum had commenced 
surveillance and said Xs reported symptoms and daily routine were not consistent with that 
footage. X made several arguments in response to that too, but Im not going to give an 
opinion on those aspects of the case because I dont think theyre relevant to my final 
decision. Im highlighting this because Im aware X wanted the ombudsman to explore this in 
conjunction with many other arguments put forward. But because this complaint is about a 
misrepresentation, theyre no longer central to the issues at hand. 
Ultimately, Xs medical condition is chronic and after carefully considering the available 
evidence, Im satisfied his CFS was the reason he had to leave his position held in 
December 2018. Its clear that his condition prevented him from fulfilling all his 
responsibilities, which, I should say were very demanding. Ive made a conscious effort not 
to disclose Xs profession as to protect his anonymity, but it should be noted his role was 
one that commanded a lot of time and dedication and I can see how his condition prevented 
him from being able to fulfil it fully, like hed been able to do for many years previously. 
When Xs employment ended and with it the cover hed previously enjoyed, he secured this 
new policy with the same provider, with the help of an IFA. I should be clear that Im not 
considering the role of the IFA here as this complaint is against the insurer. And so, I need to 
decide whether Unum has done anything wrong. Im not persuaded it has because although 
it was familiar with X and his circumstances, it was told at the inception of the new policy, 
that X was back in fulltime work from November 2018. When, actually, this wasnt the full 
picture for the reasons that have already been explained. 
X said he was using his residual holiday, in conjunction with a number of other concessions, 
in order to reduce his workload and other responsibilities and Im persuaded that this is how 
he was able to return to that position when he did. I understand the arguments X made in 
relation to that, but Im not persuaded by them. I say that because the close succession of 
his bouts of illness satisfy me that he was quickly unable to meet the demands of his new 
role, which were similar to those he held previously, because of CFS symptoms. Im satisfied 
that this shows, on balance, that X was unable to cope with the demands of his profession in 
the run up to leaving his previous employer and at policy inception in January 2019 because 
of his CFS medical condition. And its because of this that Unum is able to refer to Consumer 
Insurance Disclosure and Representation Act CIDRA in the circumstances.    
Im satisfied a qualifying misrepresentation occurred here because X ought reasonably to 
have been aware that hed been suffering with symptoms of CFS. I think he should have 
disclosed to Unum that he was still unable to meet his full responsibilities whilst effectively 
working his notice period. X was offsetting his annual leave days to reduce the working 
week, in conjunction with reducing his commitments under that role. So, although it seemed as though he was working full time and fulfilling all his responsibilities, Im satisfied that was 
not the case.
Unum said it doesnt think X did this deliberately, and I agree with its comments here, but it 
doesnt change that X should have given more detail about his working arrangements at the 
time in order to give a fuller picture of his abilities at that time. And had he done this, Im 
satisfied Unum wouldnt have offered the new policy. Without the policy, theres no cover in 
place and therefore no claim would have been considered  which is why theres no need for 
me to consider any additional arguments in relation to that aspect of this complaint. As 
Unum has already returned Xs premiums, theres nothing more for it to do here.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman