DRN-2758155
The complaint
Mr A complains PRA Group (UK) Ltd wouldnt accept an offer he made to settle a debt they 
own. 
Mr A is represented by Mrs A.
 
What happened
In 2019, PRA acquired an overdraft debt in Mr As name from another business.
In 2020, Mrs A got in touch with PRA on Mr As behalf. She said he was struggling 
financially. And she made an offer for Mr A to pay 10% of the outstanding balance and 
asked for the account to be closed. PRA explained that this offer was lower than theyd 
normally be willing to accept in order to close the account, so they required some further 
information to consider the offer. 
Mrs A provided some additional information about Mr As medical and financial 
circumstances and PRA considered their offer to pay 10% of the outstanding balance. 
PRA said they werent willing to accept the offer because the financial and medical evidence 
provided didnt show how Mr A wasnt able to meet his payments to them. In particular they 
found, based on information on his credit file, Mr A had equity in his home and also 
appeared to meeting his regular payments on other accounts held elsewhere. But, based on 
the information about Mr As health PRA moved his account to their specialist team for 
vulnerable customers. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with PRAs response. An Investigator considered the complaint. He 
said, in summary, he was satisfied PRA had treated Mr A fairly by moving his account to 
their specialist team when they became aware he was vulnerable and he was satisfied 
theyd considered the offer of 10% but it was ultimately PRAs decision about whether they 
were willing to accept this offer. 
Mrs A didnt agree with the Investigators view. Mrs A said, in summary, it wasnt in Mr As 
best interests to have a payment plan as this would affect his finances for a number of years 
and she didnt think it was fair for PRA to have taken into account information on Mr As 
credit file when making its decision not to accept the settlement offer.
 
As Mr and Mrs A didnt accept the Investigators view, the case has been passed to me 
make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about Mr and Mrs As circumstances. Its clear theyve been through 
a lot over the last couple of years. And I would expect PRA to take Mr As particular 
circumstances into account when dealing with him and his debt. 
When a customer owes money to a financial business, its reasonable for them to contact 
the customer for repayments. If the customer is having financial difficulties, wed expect the 
business to treat the customer positively and sympathetically. 
When Mrs A first contacted PRA to explain the situation with Mr As finances, PRA 
responded by continuing to leave Mr As account on hold to give him some breathing space. 
Which is helpful, and the sort of action Id expect PRA to have taken.
 
Later, when Mrs A made the offer of 10% of the final balance PRA said while they wouldnt 
normally consider an offer that low, they would do so with further information about Mr As 
health and finances. Considering PRA wouldnt normally consider an offer that low, I find it 
fair that PRA agreed to do so in Mr As case once further information had been given.
Mrs A provided some of this information on Mr As behalf. And PRA considered what she 
had provided. Mrs A is particularly unhappy that PRA took into account Mr As credit file and 
that they appear to have equity in their home when considering Mr As reduced settlement 
offer. But I dont think it was unreasonable for PRA to consider Mr As overall financial 
position when deciding whether to accept his settlement offer. Ultimately PRA decided not to 
accept the offer. Thats a matter for PRA and, as Im satisfied that they considered the 
information Mrs A provided fairly, not something I can reasonably interfere with.
 
Based on the information Mrs A provided about Mr As health, PRA referred his account to 
its Customer Support Team  which is also as Id expect. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs A are worried about having to repay this debt and would prefer 
for the offer to have been accepted and that conclude the matter. But having considered 
everything PRA have done, I find theyve treated Mr A fairly in the circumstances. 
As Ive now found that PRA have acted fairly when considering Mr As request for the 
balance to be written off, Id encourage him and Mrs A to try and engage with PRA regarding 
an affordable payment plan. Ill remind PRA theyre obliged to continue treating Mr A fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman