DRN-3694416
The complaint
Mr H and Miss W have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
declined their claim for treatment for their dog.
What happened
Mr H and Miss W took out insurance to cover their dog, who Ill refer to as T, on 18 
November 2021. The following day, it was noticed that T was limping. The next day, T was 
unable to get up. Ts vet was contacted and arrangements were made for him to have an 
MRI scan. This necessitated T being transferred to another veterinary practice. T remained 
at the referral vets until 29 November when he was well enough to come home. 
Ts veterinary notes say that the likely cause of Ts inability to use his hind legs was Hansen 
Type 1 disc extrusion  a classification of intervertebral disc disease involving disc 
degeneration.
Mr H and Miss W made a claim for the cost of Ts treatment, but this was declined by RSA. It 
referred them to an exclusion in their policy which states as follows:
When we cant help you
We dont pay if you or your vet notice changes in your pets health, or behaviour in the 
first 14 days of your cover start date. We dont pay claims for these changes or any 
illness that develops from these changes.
Mr H and Miss W werent satisfied with RSAs rejection of their claim and brought their 
complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that RSA had settled their claim 
correctly as it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of their policy.
As Mr H and Miss W arent satisfied with our investigators view, theyve asked that their 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.  Its therefore been referred to me for a final 
decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr H and Miss Ws complaint and Ill explain why not.
The incident that caused T to need urgent veterinary treatment took place within two days of 
the insurance policy being taken out. There was some discrepancy in Ts vets notes which 
recorded that they had been told that T had been seen limping on 17 November, the day 
before the policy was taken out. Were that to be correct, Ts condition would be a pre-
existing one, and therefore excluded by the policy.
On the assumption that the reference to Ts being seen limping on 17 November was a 
simple error, I still consider that the policy excludes cover for Ts treatment. In its final 
response to Mr H and Miss W, RSA said it relied upon the following policy term:
When we cant help you  We dont pay if you or your vet notice changes in your pets 
health, or behaviour in the first 14 days of your cover start date. We dont pay claims 
for these changes or any illness that develops from these changes.
Having looked at the policy document provided by RSA (version 09/20) I note that this 
wording doesnt appear. Instead the policy says as follows:
We dont pay for illnesses which you or your vet were aware of in the first 14 days of 
your policy first starting, or any illness that develops from them. By illness we mean 
both diagnosed illness and signs or symptoms of illness (undiagnosed illness).
This wording expresses the same exclusion in slightly different terms, and RSA may have 
been quoting from an earlier version of the policy. I dont consider there is any material 
difference; both wordings exclude the cost of treatment of any illnesses that develop in the 
first 14 days following the policy start date. 
Mr H and Miss W appear to rely on the distinction between an illness and an accident being 
the cause of the condition that T presented, believing that if it were to have been the result of 
an accident, the insurance policy would cover them.
Ive looked at the detailed notes from the referral vets which include the following entry on 23 
November 2021:
The owner asked yesterday whether this might be classed as an accident as that 
would be covered by insurance. The answer to this is NO. Please ensure this is 
communicated to the owner today.
So in my view the referral vet was quite clear that T s condition was not due to an accident.  
The diagnosis was that Ts MRI showed evidence of disc pathology and very mild Hansen 
Type 1 disc extrusion at L2-3 and more extensive disc extrusion at L4 and 5. The opinion of 
RSAs inhouse vets was that Hansen Type 1 disc extrusion is likely following minor trauma in 
a pre-disposed disc. Ts regular vet has said that in her experience the most common cause 
of a disc extrusion is trauma. I dont consider that these views are incompatible with each 
other. With illness present in his discs, Ts discs were predisposed to rupture. This gives the 
proximate cause as illness and not injury i.e. the illness was already present in the disc prior 
to rupture. 
But even if Mr H and Miss W were to be correct that an accident was the primary cause of 
Ts condition, (although they arent able to say what form this might have taken as they didnt 
observe it), they still wouldnt be covered by the policy. The level of cover that they have 
includes cover for accident and injury, but the policy contains an exclusion relating to such 
cover, stating:
We dont pay for accidents within the first 5 days of your policy first starting, or any 
illness or injury that develops from them.
So my conclusion is that whatever the cause of Ts medical condition  illness or accident  
the exclusions from cover apply and its reasonable for RSA to rely upon them to decline Mr 
H and Miss Ws claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr H and Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman