DRN-1719784
complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt process her chargeback request. 
background
Miss M says she went into a Nationwide branch in April 2018 to make a chargeback request. 
When she didnt hear back from Nationwide, she says she sent it a letter in October 2019 
about the matter. Miss M still didnt hear anything from Nationwide, and so made a 
complaint.
Nationwide said it didnt receive Miss Ms chargeback request in April 2018 or her letter in 
October 2019. It said by the time it learnt of Miss Ms intention to make a chargeback, the 
time limit for her to be able to do so had passed. Unhappy with this, Miss M brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. As neither party had any 
evidence that Miss M had made a chargeback request in April 2018, she didnt think 
Nationwide had done anything wrong. 
Miss M has asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Miss M explains payment had been taken from her bank card from a hotel on 23 April 2018. 
She wished to cancel the room, but wasnt able to obtain a refund from the hotel. 
I see that Miss M received advice from her local consumer advice service on 26 April 2018 
to make a chargeback request. 
Miss M has provided a copy of a letter dated 27 April 2018 that she says she wrote to 
Nationwide setting out why she wished to make a chargeback request. She explains that she 
hand-delivered this letter to her local Nationwide branch. 
Nationwide doesnt have any record of receiving this letter. We asked Nationwide what it 
does when post is hand-delivered by a customer, and it explained that the post is put straight 
into a bag to be sent to head office, where it is scanned and allocated to the relevant 
business area. 
We also asked Nationwide for any contact notes from April 2018, to check whether 
Nationwide had made a note on its system of the letter being hand-delivered. Nationwide 
checked its archives for this information, but there were no contact notes from this time. 
Unfortunately, we therefore have no way of knowing whether Nationwide received Miss Ms 
letter. However, when Miss M didnt hear back from Nationwide after a few weeks, I dont think its unreasonable to have expected her to chase this with Nationwide. Miss M didnt do 
so, and only wrote to Nationwide about the matter around 18 months later - in October 2019.
Again, Nationwide didnt receive Miss Ms letter from October 2019 (which she explains was 
posted). Though even if it had, it would have been too late for Nationwide to make a 
chargeback request for Miss M. Thats because the request must be made within 120 days 
of the payment being taken. 
As neither party has been able to provide any evidence that the letter in question was given 
to Nationwide in April 2018, I cant conclude that Nationwide is at fault.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman