DRN-3398812
The complaint
Ms B says Morses Club PLC (Morses) lent to her irresponsibly. Ms B says she was in 
a debt spiral and she says that Morses shouldnt have lent to her because of this.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision. 
 
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Ms B between August 
2018 and November 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the loans is in 
the table below.
loan date taken instalments amount date repaid
1 16/08/2018 20 £100 22/11/2018
2 22/11/2018 33 £300 10/05/2019
3 10/05/2019 33 £450 27/11/2019
4 27/11/2019 34 £500 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She said that loan 4 was a large proportion of Ms 
Bs declared income so she would struggle to repay this loan. Added to this she was taking 
loans frequently, the amounts she borrowed had increased and her income had decreased.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the loans looked affordable and Ms 
B didnt have any problems repaying loans 1 to 3. The loans werent a high proportion of her 
disposable income.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Im currently minded not to uphold Ms Bs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Ms B provided when she completed her loan applications. 
Ms B said she had a weekly income of about £230 and she had regular weekly outgoings of 
about £115. This remained the same for the first two loans, but her weekly expenditure fell to 
about £75 at loan 3 and her income fell to £200 a week before loan 4.Even with this reduction in 
income, I think it would have been reasonable for Morses to think that Ms B could afford the 
loan repayments for all of these loans.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained.
Our adjudicator thought that repayments for loan 4 were too great a proportion of Mrs 
Ms declared income. I can see why she said this. Mrs M was paying £25 a week against 
a recorded income of about £200. This is a fairly high proportion of what could 
reasonably be described as a fairly modest income.
That said, Mrs Ms expenditure was recorded as being around £70 a week so she did have 
some spare money. There had been no repayment problems at this point and the lending 
pattern itself wasnt, in my view, problematic. For example, the loans didnt overlap. So, I also 
dont think its fair to uphold Mrs Ms complaint about loan 4 for this reason.
So overall, in these circumstances, I currently think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 
4 were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 4 was reasonable. Im not 
intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint about them.
Morses, and Ms B, received my provisional decision. And no one had anything to add after 
theyd seen it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Morses and Ms B didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I still think that the 
loans seemed affordable for Ms B given the information Morses had. And I dont think that 
Morses lent irresponsibly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman