DRN-3031184
Complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a mortgage in 2002. Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold 
them PPI.
Nationwide were trading as Dunfermline Building Society at the time. To keep things simple, 
Ill refer to them as Nationwide throughout this decision.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Nationwides offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs H paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. Nationwide has been able to give me a copy of the mortgage 
application form that Mr and Mrs H completed. This had no mention of PPI on it, so I 
think it was clear that taking PPI wasnt a requirement for the mortgage. Around two 
months later, they completed a separate PPI application form, in this they requested to 
split the benefit of the policy to 80% for Mr H and 20% for Mrs H. This aligns with their 
salaries at the time, so I think they chose to amend the policy to suit their needs at the 
time. They also requested the unemployment cover only and didnt take the accident and 
sickness cover. On balance, I think they chose to take out the policy, knowing they didnt 
have to. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H - so it didnt have to check that 
the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs H enough clear 
and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs H  for 
example they werent affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And 
it wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and 
Mrs H would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mr and Mrs H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Nationwide didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case. 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs H 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs H should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Nationwide failed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr 
and Mrs H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr and Mrs H paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs H with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Nationwide had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Nationwide has already paid Mr and Mrs H compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs H an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation 
on this basis, I do not consider that Nationwide Building Society should do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman