DRN-4347629
The complaint
Mr R complains that a company which is now part of ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) sent him 
a pension payment in error in 2017. But then told him in 2020 that the money wasnt his. 
ReAssure asked Mr R to repay the money in September 2020. But after his solicitor sent 
ReAssure a letter in October 2020, Mr R didnt hear about the repayment request again until 
February 2023. At this point he received a letter from a third party which stated itd been 
instructed to recover the debt. 
Mr R accepts that the money was paid in error. And is willing to come to further 
arrangements with ReAssure to pay off more of the outstanding debt. But feels that 
ReAssure hasnt done what it should to resolve the matter. Mr R would like ReAssure to 
accept the payments he can reasonably afford to make and then write off the remaining 
debt.
What happened
Mr R said that in 2017, a company which is now part of ReAssure contacted him about a 
pension it said belonged to him. He said he didnt recognise the company name connected 
to the pension, but that hed worked for many employers over the years. Mr R provided the 
identification ReAssure requested and the pension was paid to him in March 2017. 
Mr R said that he took some of the pension as tax-free cash. And that he invested some of 
the money into a drawdown Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), where it has remained 
since. And used some of it to pay off debts and cover his day to day living costs.
Mr R said that ReAssure contacted him again in 2019 to tell him itd found a further pension 
in his name. He said that when he tried to access that money, ReAssure told him that it had 
offered him the funds in error. It paid him £100 for the inconvenience itd caused him. But it 
didnt realise at this point that the first pension had also been offered in error in 2017. 
In September 2020, Mr R said that ReAssure contacted both him and his financial advisor to 
tell them that itd paid the first pension to Mr R in error. And that it wanted the £88,225.49 itd 
paid Mr R to be repaid. It became apparent that the error had occurred because Mr R had 
the same name and date of birth as the actual owner of the pensions. But ReAssure hadnt 
identified that their National Insurance numbers were different.
Mr R said that his family arranged for a solicitors letter to be sent to ReAssure in October 
2020. The letter said that Mr R hadnt at any point known that the funds werent rightfully his. 
And said he wanted to know how best to move forwards, given he couldnt pay ReAssure 
back in full. But Ive seen no evidence that ReAssure made any further direct contact with Mr 
R. It did write once to Mr Rs solicitor on 7 December 2020, to ask for an update, but Ive not 
seen evidence of any reply, or any further chasers from ReAssure to the solicitor. 
Mr R said that as he heard nothing further from ReAssure, hed assumed it wasnt looking to 
pursue repayment of the funds. But in February 2023, a third party wrote to Mr R to tell him 
that itd been instructed to recover the debt. Mr R asked for a copy of the paperwork 
connected with the debt as he didn't recognise the name of the claimant. This confirmed that 
the letter related to the incorrect pension payment from ReAssure in 2017. 
Mr R said he tried to explain his situation to the debt collectors. And he also contacted 
ReAssure on 24 February 2023 about the situation. He said hed sought advice from the 
citizens advice bureau and the national debt advice agency. And that theyd suggested he 
contact ReAssure to register a complaint.
I understand that Mr R made an initial payment of £20,000 to ReAssure. And offered to 
transfer the money in his SIPP back to it. He said this was currently worth around £31K. He 
said he wasnt in a position to pay back the debt in full. And that hed told ReAssure this. And 
that although ReAssure has apologised and said it would pay him compensation, it couldnt 
tell him what this would be. 
ReAssure issued its final response letter to the complaint on 28 April 2023. It said that 
although it had made the payment in error, the funds didnt belong to Mr R. So it was entitled 
to ask for the money to be repaid.
ReAssure acknowledged that it had been a difficult and long process which had caused Mr 
R inconvenience and upset. And said that it would consider compensation, which it would 
use to offset the outstanding debt. But that it didnt know what the compensation would be 
until all of the legal aspects had been addressed. 
ReAssure said it would contact Mr R when it could confirm the level of compensation it 
would offer. But it didnt give him any indication of when that might be.
Mr R was unhappy with ReAssures response. So he brought his complaint to this service in 
May 2023. Mr R said that all his savings had gone. And he was still waiting to hear what 
would happen to his SIPP, including how much would be available towards repaying the 
debt. He said he was also continuing to consider if he should appoint representation in case 
it went to court. He said this worried him as he couldnt afford the additional costs. Mr R also 
explained to this service that he had mental health issues and had suffered a devastating 
personal loss around the time ReAssure had first tried to get the money repaid. 
Mr R said that in trying to work out how to resolve the situation, hed spent hours of research 
looking for help. And that the issue had caused stress and anxiety and affected his mental 
health. He also said he feared for his financial future. And that as hed previously thought he 
was financially stable, hed spent money that he wouldn't normally have done. He wanted 
ReAssure to accept what he could afford to pay it. And then write off the rest of the debt so 
that he could get on with his life without this hanging over his head.
Mr R confirmed to this service that he hadnt paid any fees for the October 2020 solicitors 
letter. But he didnt know whether or not the debt collectors were still pursuing him. 
ReAssure told this service that the complaint was still with its legal department. It 
acknowledged that it had made the initial error. And that it would be looking to compensate 
Mr R, and then use this to offset the remaining funds owed. It later provided an update on 5 
July 2023 that its legal department had said: the [SIPP] money should be able to be moved 
over from the current holder to us without Mr R withdrawing and taking a tax penalty, and 
they will work with Mr R to come to an agreement.
Our investigator asked Mr R to provide a rough estimate of how much he felt he could afford 
to repay to ReAssure. He felt that around £20 each month might be affordable, although he 
had concerns about the cost-of-living crisis and because his fixed rate mortgage was about 
to expire. Our investigator also spoke to ReAssure to work out whether it would be possible to mediate 
an acceptable resolution to this case without issuing a formal view. ReAssure told this 
service it was open to mediation. Our investigator made ReAssure aware of Mr Rs 
vulnerabilities, which it confirmed it hadnt previously been aware of. And asked ReAssure to 
provide confirmation that the debt collectors had been called off. She also asked it if it would 
consider writing off the remainder of the debt given Mr Rs circumstances  after the funds in 
Mr Rs SIPP had been paid back to it. 
ReAssure indicated that it was willing to consider this, but that it would need to liaise with its 
legal department. It said it would get back to our investigator by the end of July 2023. 
Our investigator issued her view on the complaint on 4 August 2023. She upheld the 
complaint. She felt that ReAssure should take a number of steps to put things right, including 
considering writing off the remaining debt, calling off the debt collectors and paying Mr R 
£4,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. She said that this money shouldnt be 
used to offset any outstanding debt. 
Mr R accepted our investigators recommendations. He told this service that he was waiting 
to have surgery. And therefore wanted his complaint to be settled as soon as possible.
Given the difficult and stressful position Mr R had been left it, our investigator gave 
ReAssure a deadline of 28 August 2023 to suggest a resolution to the complaint. As it has 
yet to respond, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint on 8 September 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that ReAssure should take 
a number of actions to put things right. However, Im issuing a provisional decision with a 
short deadline to give ReAssure one final opportunity to tell this service what it intends to do 
next. If it intends to set up a payment plan for the outstanding amount (after the SIPP funds 
have been returned to it) with Mr R, I consider he will be caused further distress and 
inconvenience. Therefore I may need to increase the amount suggested below. Ill explain 
the reasons for my decision.
ReAssure accepts that it made an error in 2017. Mr R accepts that the money ReAssure 
paid him in 2017 wasnt his. And understands that the funds are due back to ReAssure. 
What remains to be resolved is what ReAssure should do to put things right. 
I understand that Mr R has already paid ReAssure around £20,000 of the debt back. And 
that he intends for the funds within his SIPP to be used as further part payment of the debt. I 
also understand that ReAssure will deal with any related consequences and administration 
of the transfer of these funds. However, as this wont be enough to cover the debt in full, Mr 
R wants to come to a reasonable arrangement with ReAssure.
Our investigator seemed to make excellent progress in mediating a mutually acceptable 
resolution to the case between ReAssure and Mr R. But although ReAssure agreed to 
provide an update by 28 July 2023, this service hasnt heard from it. 
As Mr R continues to suffer distress with the uncertainty of his financial future while the case 
is still waiting to be resolved, the case has come to me for review. 
I first considered how ReAssure handled its request for the repayment of the incorrectly paid funds in 2020 and 2023. 
September 2020 letter
The letter ReAssure sent in September 2020 came out of the blue to Mr R. Hed heard 
nothing from ReAssure about the pension payment for three years. And he had no idea that 
hed been paid funds that werent rightfully his. So hed spent some of the money in good 
faith. 
Mr R had also acted in a financially different way than he wouldve done if the money hadnt 
been paid to him, as he felt more financially stable after the payment was made to him than 
hed felt before. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr R acted unreasonably, or financially 
irresponsibly, after the payment was made to him. 
Although ReAssure did briefly apologise for the error it had made, it asked Mr R to make the 
repayment in full within the next 21 days. It mustve been shocking to receive such a blunt 
request for more than £88K to be repaid so quickly. Especially as ReAssure had demanded 
repayment three years after its error. This was a significant period of time for Mr R to have 
been under the impression that the money was rightfully his, and to spend accordingly.
February 2023 letter
Almost two and a half years after Mr R had last heard from ReAssure about the debt, he 
received a Letter of Claim pursuant to the Pre-Action Protocol for debt claims from a third 
party which was representing a business hed never heard of. So he asked for a copy of the 
paperwork connected with the debt. This confirmed the letter was in relation to ReAssures 
2017 payment to him.
The letter gave Mr R around a month to fully repay the over £88K debt. It made no reference 
to the fact that Mr Rs solicitor had told ReAssure that he wasnt able to pay the debt in full. 
But did state that if Mr R wasnt able to make full payment, he should forward his repayment 
proposals in writing. Or he could call to discuss affordable repayment.
The letter also threatened Mr R with legal action if he didnt take any action. And said that if it 
took him to court, court fees and legal fees would be added to his debt. 
I agree with our investigator that in situations like these, where a large payment has been 
made in error, wed at least expect a business to engage pragmatically with the consumer 
from the start. Wed reasonably expect a business to at least offer and arrange a repayment 
plan with the consumer, taking into account what they could reasonably afford to pay back 
each month.
Its clear that ReAssure didnt meet this minimum level of service in this case. Instead, with 
no warning, and with no apparent recognition of the bomb it had just dropped into Mr Rs life, 
ReAssure requested in 2020 that he paid all of the money back within 21 days. I consider 
that this wouldve been a terrible shock to anyone. And given Mr Rs mental health issues, 
and the devastating personal events that he endured around the time ReAssure sent the 
letter, I cant imagine how awful it mustve been to receive it. 
Then, almost two and a half years later, and without any intervening follow-up, ReAssure 
arranged for debt collectors to write to Mr R. They threatened him with court action if he 
didnt arrange to pay back the debt in some way. 
Im not persuaded that ReAssure acted fairly when it instructed debt collectors before it had 
tried to properly engage with Mr R. I consider that it was completely unreasonable to have contacted Mr R in this way two and a half years after the last previous contact with him. 
I say this because I dont think ReAssure gave Mr R the chance to fully engage with it about 
what he owed them, and how he could start to repay the debt. 
Ive not received confirmation from ReAssure, despite this service asking for it, that it has 
asked its debt collectors to stand down following Mr Rs complaint. If it hasnt already 
instructed them to cease, ReAssure should immediately do so.
Overall, I dont consider that ReAssure acted reasonably when it tried to get Mr R to repay 
the debt the way it did. Ill consider the distress and inconvenience this caused him later in 
my decision. 
I next considered the current outstanding debt. 
The outstanding debt
I noted earlier that Mr R has already taken steps to return part of the debt. But what hasnt 
been agreed with ReAssure is how the remaining debt will be paid off. 
I agree with our investigator that, under the specific circumstances of this case  in 
particular: the time that has passed since the incorrect payment was made; Mr Rs age; 
unemployment; ability to pay the remaining debt and his vulnerabilities  that ideally, 
ReAssure should consider writing off the remaining amount. However, it is of course 
ReAssures decision to make about whether it is willing to write off the remainder, or to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr R. 
Mr R has told this service that the most he can reasonably afford to pay each month is £20, 
although he is concerned that given the cost-of-living crisis and his mortgage deal coming to 
an end soon, even this amount may prove difficult for him. Taking everything into account, I 
agree with our investigator that its unlikely ReAssure would ever receive the full remaining 
amount owed back from Mr R. 
Im also of the view that since its been almost six years since ReAssure made the incorrect 
payment to Mr R, it would be unfair and unreasonable for ReAssure to pursue repayment of 
100% of the original payment. Im satisfied that Mr R has genuinely paid everything he can 
afford to pay back already. So I agree with our investigator that the most reasonable course 
of action would be for ReAssure to take ownership of Mr Rs SIPP funds and then write off 
any remaining debt after that. 
I say this not only because of the time that has passed since the error - which in my opinion 
has led to Mr R reasonably spending some money that he cant now afford to pay back - but 
because he is only in this situation because of ReAssures original mistake. ReAssure has 
acknowledged that the error occurred because it wasnt at that time its standard practice to 
review National Insurance numbers. But if it had included this as part of its identity checks at 
the time of the error, the mistake wouldnt have taken place. Royal London almost made the 
same mistake again in 2019. But even though that potential error was corrected relatively 
early on, with no funds being incorrectly transferred, it took several further months before 
ReAssure identified its original error. I cant reasonably say that Mr R bears any 
responsibility for the situation he now finds himself in. 
For the avoidance of doubt, while I agree with our investigator that this service doesnt have 
the power to direct ReAssure to write off any outstanding debt, I would strongly recommend 
it to. I say this having taken into account all the specific circumstances of this case. However, if ReAssure does decide to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R, I agree 
with our investigator that this would prolong the distress and inconvenience it has caused Mr 
R. Ill next consider the distress and inconvenience ReAssures error has already caused 
him since 2017. 
Distress and inconvenience
ReAssure has acknowledged that Mr R is due some compensation from it. It said in its final 
response letter that it would contact him once it could confirm the level of compensation it 
would offer. But it gave no indication of when that might be. Its been over four months since 
ReAssure made this offer. While Mr Rs has been waiting, hes still under the stress of the 
debt collectors, and his financial future is still completely uncertain. 
The February 2023 letter has also led to Mr R worrying about whether he should appoint 
legal representation for a court case he cant afford. 
I appreciate that ReAssure only found out about Mr Rs vulnerabilities after his complaint 
was brought to this service. But Ive seen no evidence that this knowledge has caused 
ReAssure to prioritise or expedite the resolution of this issue, despite the high levels of 
stress it must be causing Mr R. 
Mr R has told this service that the incorrect payment from ReAssure has changed his whole 
future. He made decisions about his spending and his retirement plans based on the amount 
of money he thought he had, which has now significantly changed. The loss of expectation 
here is not only significant due to the size of the incorrect payment, but the length of time Mr 
R thought the money was his. 
Mr R has been unemployed for some time. Despite the fact that hes well into his 60s and 
has health issues, hes been trying to get another job given the unstable financial situation 
he now finds himself in. Mr R said that all his savings have gone. 
Our investigator listed the reasons she felt ReAssure should pay Mr R compensation for the 
ongoing distress and inconvenience it had caused him. I agree with her. And have listed 
those Ive not already covered below:
The impact of the original error in 2017 on Mr R, including the loss of expectation 
when Mr R found out the money wasnt his.
Taking three years to identify the error.
Then failing to reasonably engage with Mr R once the error had been found. 
And failing to reasonably engage with Mr Rs solicitors letter apart from one brief 
follow up in 2020.
Failing to contact Mr R again for two and a half years between 2020 and 2023.
Taking the unreasonable step to instruct debt collectors before attempting to properly 
engage Mr R. 
Failing to immediately call off the debt collectors after Mr R raised a complaint. And 
then failing to let him know whether or not the debt collectors had been asked to 
stand down. 
Creating a situation in which Mr R made significant life decisions such as paying off debts and opening a SIPP. 
Any continued distress caused if ReAssure isnt willing to write off the remaining 
debt. And prolonged continued distress if ReAssure seeks to arrange an ongoing 
repayment plan with Mr R over many years in the future 
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigators conclusion that ReAssure 
should pay Mr R £4,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I say this because of the 
high level of distress ReAssures error has caused Mr R over a prolonged period of time. 
And the huge financial impact the error has had on him. This money should not be used to 
offset any outstanding debt. 
I say this because I consider that if ReAssure had engaged properly with the debt repayment 
process in a timely fashion, and not almost six years after the event, Mr R wouldnt have 
been put through such a terrible ordeal. Therefore, regardless of whether any outstanding 
debt is written off or not, the compensation payment made in respect of distress and 
inconvenience should benefit Mr R directly, as it should in some way compensate him for the 
ordeal hes been put through.
However, as I noted earlier in my decision, if ReAssure decides to pursue further debt 
repayment, after the SIPP funds have been transferred to it, I may need to review the 
amount of distress and inconvenience that should be paid depending on the terms of that 
payment plan. I say this because I consider that any further payment plan will further prolong 
the distress and inconvenience Mr R has been caused. And will not allow him to get on with 
his life without the shadow of this debt hanging over him. 
I also agree with our investigator that ReAssure needs to take further steps to put things 
right, as follows. Ive summarised these actions below.
What I intend to ask ReAssure Limited to do
I intend to require ReAssure Limited to take the following steps to put things right:
Consider immediately writing off the remainder of the debt. Then promptly provide Mr 
R with a letter confirming this.
If ReAssure dont want to write off the outstanding debt, it should promptly and 
pragmatically engage with Mr R to draw up a monthly repayment plan for the 
remaining amount based on what he can reasonably afford to pay back each month. 
I expect this to be no more than £20 each month.
Take ownership of Mr Rs SIPP and promptly liaise with any third parties about this. 
Mr R should be kept updated. ReAssure should then decide what to do with the SIPP 
funds once it has taken ownership and should deal with any related consequences 
and administration of those funds. The amount realised from the SIPP should be 
taken as payment towards the outstanding debt. ReAssure should ensure that this 
will not result in a tax bill or similar to Mr R. 
Instruct its debt collectors to immediately cease all action in relation to the debt if this 
hasnt already been done. Confirm in writing to Mr R when this has been done. It 
should also ensure that the involvement of debt collectors hasnt affected Mr Rs 
credit file in any way and if it has, it should promptly take action to rectify this.
Pay Mr R £4,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. This money should not 
be used to offset any outstanding debt. Response to my provisional decision
ReAssure said that under the circumstances of this case, it was prepared to agree with my 
provisional decision. It said it was willing to pay Mr R £4,000 compensation for trouble and 
upset, take ownership of the SIPP and write off the remaining debt. And that it had told its 
legal department to stop all debt recovery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
What I require ReAssure Limited to do
I require ReAssure Limited to take the following steps to put things right:
Write off the remainder of the debt as it has agreed. Then promptly provide Mr R with 
a letter confirming this.
Take ownership of Mr Rs SIPP and promptly liaise with any third parties about this. 
Mr R should be kept updated. ReAssure should then decide what to do with the SIPP 
funds once it has taken ownership and should deal with any related consequences 
and administration of those funds. The amount realised from the SIPP should be 
taken as payment towards the outstanding debt. ReAssure should ensure that this 
will not result in a tax bill or similar to Mr R. 
Instruct its debt collectors to immediately cease all action in relation to the debt if this 
hasnt already been done. Confirm in writing to Mr R when this has been done. It 
should also ensure that the involvement of debt collectors hasnt affected Mr Rs 
credit file in any way and if it has, it should promptly take action to rectify this.
Pay Mr R £4,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. This money should not 
be used to offset any outstanding debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must take the 
actions listed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman