DRN-4035212
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) declined their buildings 
insurance claim theyd made for damage caused by a storm.
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mr L in my decision.
What happened
Mr L had buildings insurance cover with Covea. In early January 2023 he said there was a 
strong sustainable gust of wind that caused the collapse of the flank gable wall. Mr L claimed 
for the damage against his building insurance policy. Covea arranged for an independent 
assessor to review the damage. 
Covea declined Mr Ls claim as they said there hadnt been an insurable event as the wind 
speed hadnt reached storm level. And the independent assessor report said the damage 
was a result of a weakened wall caused by poor construction. Mr L complained to Covea.
Covea said for weather conditions to be considered a storm under the policy terms the wind 
had to reach a minimum speed of 55 miles per hour (mph). Theyd checked the specific area 
for Mr Ls property and the wind speed hadnt exceeded 43mph. Also the independent 
assessor reported the tiles had been held on with flimsy ties which had caused saturation 
and a weakening of the area.  
Mr L didnt agree he said consideration hadnt been taken of the elevated position of his 
property which would have caused the wind speed to increase. And his property was only 18 
years old and well maintained. He said the wall ties were standard wall ties and the correct 
ones for the construction of the house.  He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Covea hadnt applied the terms of the insurance policy unfairly as he 
hadnt seen any evidence that the wind speeds had reached storm levels.  And the gust of 
wind had highlighted existing damage caused by poor construction.
Mr L didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr L, while I empathise with the position he finds 
himself in, for me to say Covea must do something different I must first be satisfied that 
theyve done something wrong. I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be 
asking them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a valid 
claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. Insurable 
events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might 
happen. Only damage caused by one of the perils (or events) listed in the policy will be 
covered. If the damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must 
pay the claim unless theyre able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
Mr Ls claim against his insurance policy was he said for damage caused to his property 
during a storm. I can see  from Mr Ls policy that under his building cover he was insured for 
loss or damage caused by:
 Fire, smoke, lightening, explosion, earthquake, storm, flood
So damage caused by a storm is an insurable event under Mr Ls policy. The policy defines 
a storm as:
"A period of violent weather defined as: Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) 
(Equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale) or; Torrential rainfall at a rate of at 
least 25mm per hour or; Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cm) in 24 hours or; Hail of 
such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass." 
Covea declined Mr Ls claim as they said there wasnt a storm at the time of the damage 
because the wind speeds were below 55mph. And an independent report said the wall was 
weakened by poor construction. 
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, I must ask three questions:
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was
caused?
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a
storm?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes to be able to conclude that a storm claim 
was declined unfairly. Where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim 
(as Covea have done here) the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. 
Tiles being removed and walls collapsing show as typical damage that could be caused by a 
storm, so I only need to consider the first and third points.
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused?
Ive reviewed the weather reports for the date the damage happened, but the wind gust was 
measured at no more than 44mph that day. Mr L has made the point that his property is 
elevated. But I can see that Covea considered a bespoke weather report that was post code 
specific that also took into account the topography of the area. This report measured the 
wind gust at a maximum 43 mph. Coveas terms and conditions define a storm as being 
55mph. The Royal Meteorological Societys Beaufort scale considers storm conditions as 
being 55 to 63 mph, So, I dont think Coveas terms in defining a storm as 55mph is unfair. 
On the evidence Ive seen that Covea used to determine Mr Ls claim, Im not persuaded the 
weather conditions at the time of the damage to Mr Ls property could be considered a 
storm. As Im satisfied that there wasnt a storm that day, it follows that I dont find Covea to 
have done anything wrong by declining this as a claim for storm damage.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?The independent assessors report Covea considered when assessing Mr Ls claim said the 
wall ties used in construction appeared flimsy. And I can see a photograph was taken of a 
tile showing the wall tie. The independent assessor described the wall tie as wire with a bob 
on the end" (which is similar to the tie shown in the photograph) rather than the wall tie 
standard the independent assessor said should be used, a double triangle or vertical twist 
type. The report says there was rubble infill between the stone and the block which by 
becoming saturated had weakened the wall, and a vortex between the two walls had pulled 
the wall out, something the independent assessor considered shouldnt have happened if the 
build had been done correctly. I havent been persuaded by any other evidence that would 
contradict the independent assessors report. So, I cant say that Covea has acted unfairly 
by relying on this report. And I dont think the weather conditions at the time were the main 
cause of the damage. 
For Mr L to have a successful claim for storm damage to his property, it needs to show there 
was a storm at the time, and that the storm was the dominant cause of the damage. From 
the evidence Ive seen I dont think Mr Ls claim shows this. So Covea has applied the 
exclusion in declining his claim fairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman