DRN-2898285
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that a car Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
supplied him under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality. Hes unhappy 
with the compensation its offered him.  
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement through MBFS to acquire a 
new car. The cash price of the car was around £34,500. 
Around a week after he acquired the car, an issue with its traction control arose. Mr S 
contacted the supplying dealership, but he says it couldnt look at the car for around four 
weeks. The dealership later took the car in and carried out some repairs. Over the next six 
months, the car went back to the dealership on a further four occasions for repairs. 
Ultimately, MBFS agreed to allow Mr S to reject the car and offered to refund the deposit he 
paid plus 10% of his monthly payments. It also offered him £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter had caused him. It later increased its offer to refund 
20% of his monthly payments. Mr S didnt think this was sufficient as he thought it should 
refund everything hed paid. He also highlighted that the repair invoices hed received 
showed the dealership had repaired the cruise control before he agreed to acquire the car. 
He says he wouldnt have agreed to acquire the car had he known about this.
Mr S also complained about the general service the dealership had provided. And he says it 
had made a number of false statements. He highlighted a mobile phone app that he had, 
which was linked to the car, said the car had been in a collision while it was in the 
dealerships possession. He says the dealership had said this would have occurred when 
the car was on the ramp, but Mr S says this wasnt consistent with what he knew with the 
way the app worked.
When Mr S took the car back to the dealership the final time, it discovered one of the wheels 
had buckled. MBFS thinks this was likely to have been caused by Mr S hitting a pot hole, but 
Mr S thinks its likely this happened when there was a collision report while the car was in 
the dealers possession.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2021 upholding this complaint and I said the following: 
Mr S has raised a number of complaint points about why hes unhappy with MBFS. Ive not 
commented on each and every point hes raised. Instead Ive focussed on what I think are 
the key issues. No discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service.
Mr S acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the hire purchase agreement that the 
car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, MBFS is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. MBFS has accepted 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. So I wont comment any 
further in respect to this apart from to say I agree.
The issue for me to decide is whether I think MBFS has offered fair compensation or not. I 
largely think it has, but I also think there are some things it should also compensate Mr S for. 
Mr S has rejected the car and its been returned to MBFS. And I think that was fair. Mr S 
doesnt think he should have to pay for the car as he thinks hes only really had one week of 
full and proper usage. The CRA sets out that, where a consumer rejects goods, the 
consumer may be entitled to a refund of the amount paid for the goods. But the CRA further 
sets out that the supplier is entitled to reduce this refund to reflect the usage of the goods. 
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement. So, in effect, the monthly payments he made 
each month was a payment to hire the goods from MBFS. Generally speaking, where a 
consumer has had full usage (or minimal reduction in their usage) of a car, we would 
consider the monthly payments theyve made to be a fair charge for the usage. But Ive 
thought about whether the faults Mr S has experienced with the car has had a material and 
significant impact on his ability to use and enjoy the car. 
Its clear Mr S has had a number of issues with the car and it seems the car went into the 
garage on five separate occasions. I understand Mr S was given a courtesy car on 
occasions apart from the last time. But I also understand the car had travelled around 3,500 
miles by the time Mr S handed it back. Mr Ss contracted mileage for the car was 6,000 miles 
per year. Hed had the car around nine months before he rejected. Based on this, Im not 
persuaded there was any significant drop (if any) in the amount Mr S has used the car.
However, Ive also considered this was a new car and Mr S paid around £34,500 for it. So I 
think he was entitled to enjoy a significantly long period of fault free driving. But hes not 
been able to have that because of the issues hes had with the car. So I do think MBFS 
should refund a percentage of the monthly payments hes made. However MBFS has 
already offered to refund 20% of the monthly payments. This is in line with what I would have 
awarded up to when the car went into the garage on the final time on 20 July 2020. I note 
Mr S thinks MBFS should refund everything, but, as I set out above, he has used the car in 
line with his contracted usage. 
However, Im satisfied Mr S hasnt used the car since 20 July 2020. And, further to this, I 
also note he paid for a low loader to transport the car to the dealership. MBFS says this 
wasnt because of the faults that were present at the point of supply, but because of 
additional damage caused to the wheel. And it said it cant be held liable for this and it said it 
was Mr Ss responsibility to fix the issue. Mr S maintains the fault was caused by the 
dealership.
I think its important to first highlight that the car was supplied by and was the property of 
MBFS throughout this contract. Any repairs the dealership carried out were done on behalf 
of MBFS  i.e. the dealership was acting as an agent of MBFS. So I think MBFS is liable for 
anything the dealership did in respect to the car while it was in its custody and control.
The key issue for me to decide in respect to the damage to the wheel is who I think, on 
balance, caused the damage. It seems the issue with the wheel first materialised around 
July 2020 after it was returned from the dealership for investigation into faults on the 
dashboard. Mr S took the car to the dealership for this on 8 June 2020. Mr S has given us 
evidence the car reported a notification of a collision on 9 June 2020. Mr S believes this is 
when the wheel was damaged. 
Theres no dispute the wheel was damaged through an impact  most likely with a kerb or 
pot hole. The dealership suggests this collision damage notification was likely to be as a result of the car going onto the ramp. But I dont think Ive seen anything to support this. 
However, I think a more plausible explanation for the notification is due to the car having 
some form of impact. And I think its most likely that the wheel was damaged at this time. So 
I think, on balance, the wheel was damaged by MBFSs agent. So, it follows, that I think 
MBFS is liable for any losses Mr S incurred as a result of this. It also follows that I dont think 
its fair for MBFS to require Mr S to pay for the cost of the damage to the wheel. 
Mr S says he didnt feel safe driving the car as a result of the damage to the wheel. And I 
can understand his concerns in this respect. So I dont think it was unreasonable for him to 
choose to use a low loader to transport the car to the dealership. It follows, therefore, that I 
think MBFS should refund the cost of the low loader. I also understand Mr S didnt use the 
car since 20 July 2020. So I think it should refund all the monthly payments hes made since 
then.
Mr S has complained that the dealership mis-sold him the car. I should state that a 
dealership isnt required to set out each and every element of a cars history. And I dont 
agree that it should have explained any repairs that it carried out before selling the car, 
unless Mr S specifically asked about it. But I dont think I need to make a finding on whether 
the car was mis-sold to him because, even if it was, I would still award the same amount of 
redress as I have set out above.
Im also conscious that this matter will have caused Mr S a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience. Hes had to arrange to take the car to the dealership for repair on five 
separate occasions. I can see hes also spent a significant period of time discussing this 
matter with both the dealership and MBFS in looking to resolve everything. And I also have 
to consider that Mr S suffers from a mental health condition which I think would have 
heightened the distress and inconvenience he suffered. Given this, I think MBFS should pay 
£250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
MBFS didnt accept my provisional decision. It didnt agree there was evidence that the 
dealership damaged the wheel and it said garages typically go to great lengths to not 
damage vehicles. It said, in order to cause an alloy wheel to buckle, it would require the car 
to reach some considerable speed. It said it wouldnt be possible to accumulate enough 
speed from just moving the car from the car park to the workshop in order to cause the 
wheel to buckle.
Further to this, it disputed it was liable for the actions of the dealership as it said the repairs 
carried out were carried out under the cars warranty  not because of any requirements 
under the CRA. So it said the dealership wasnt acting on its behalf when carrying out the 
repairs.
Mr S was happy Id agreed with him in respect to the damage to the alloy wheel. But he 
queried why I hadnt required MBFS to refund the cost of changing his personalised number 
plate and the GAP insurance policy that the investigator had said should be refunded. 
I issued a second provisional decision upholding this complaint but said I intended to award 
a different amount of compensation. And I said the following:
Firstly, I think MBFS has raised a fair argument that the repair work the supplying 
dealership was carried out under the cars warranty. As a result, it was effectively acting on 
behalf of the warranty provider when carrying out the work  i.e. not as an agent of MBFS. 
That said, it needs to be remembered MBFS owned and supplied the car to Mr S. He 
contacted the supplying dealership because there were issues with the car and I think the 
dealership took this notification on behalf of MBFS and it was its choice to use the warranty 
policy as opposed to referring it to MBFS. However, I dont think I need to make a finding as to whether the dealership was acting on behalf of MBFS or not, because Im now not 
persuaded the dealership did damage the alloy wheel and Ill explain why.
As I said, Ive reconsidered all the evidence provided in respect to the damage to the alloy 
wheel. Having done so, Im no longer persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
damage occurred while in the possession of the supplying dealership. I note the collision 
notification was reported at 9:37am on 9 June 2020. Mr S thinks this occurred while it was 
being driven back to the garage by a staff member. The supplying dealership has confirmed 
its not uncommon for staff to drive vehicles. But, given the usual opening times of repairing 
garages, had the car been taken by a staff member over night, I think its likely the car would 
have been returned to the garage sooner than 9:37am.
Ive also considered the tracking report Mr S has provided and this shows the car being 
driven on a number of occasions during the time it had the car in June 2020. But this 
suggested the car didnt leave the dealerships premises between Mr S delivering the car on 
8 June until 11 June when it was driven at 5:03pm.
The supplying dealership says the collision report said the notification was because the car 
was on the ramp. This was the day after Mr S delivered the car and I think its likely some 
investigative work would have been carried out  which would include putting the car up on a 
ramp. Given this, and what Ive said above, Im now persuaded that this is a plausible 
scenario. And I dont think theres anything to show the car was being driven at the time of 
this collision notification.
I dont dispute that the car travelled around 220 miles while in the dealerships possession. 
But, similarly, Mr S has driven considerably more miles than this himself. So, even if I was to 
conclude the dealership were acting on behalf of MBFS (and Im not persuaded it was), I 
cant say theres enough for me to say it damaged the alloy wheel. 
Taking this into account, I dont think it was unfair for MBFS to charge Mr S for the damage 
in line with the terms of the finance agreement. Mr S may wish to pursue this with the 
dealership directly. But I cant say MBFS is liable for this cost. 
Further to this, Ive thought about whether MBFS should refund the cost of Mr S arranging to 
have the car delivered to the dealership on a low loader. I accept that it seems he was 
reluctant to drive the car because of the damage to the alloy wheel. But, at the same time, 
the car was going to the dealership because of further issues with the cars electrics. And, it 
also needs to be remembered the car broke down again after it was collected by MBFSs 
agent after Mr S had handed it back. I dont think Mr S would have incurred this cost had 
MBFS supplied a car of satisfactory quality. So I think it should refund this cost too. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ss comment that I didnt require MBFS to refund the cost of the 
GAP insurance and the cost of changing the number plate. Having considered this, I 
apologise as I didnt consider this in my previous provisional decision. I think MBFS should 
refund these charges and Ill explain why.
Mr S took out a GAP insurance policy when he acquired the car. GAP insurance policies are 
generally non-cancellable contracts  i.e. no refund is given when a policy is cancelled  and 
I understand this was the case for Mr Ss policy. Mr S hasnt had the full benefit of this 
contract because he was supplied with a car of unsatisfactory quality. So I think MBFS 
should provide a pro-rata refund of the premium based on the length of time he had the car 
against the intended length of the policy.
Further to this, I understand Mr S has a personalised number plate. And he had to pay to 
remove the personalised number when he handed the car back. He wouldnt have had to do this so soon had the car been of satisfactory quality so I think MBFS should refund this too. 
Finally, I understand Mr S cancelled his car insurance policy after he handed the car back. I 
think its likely he would have incurred a cancellation administration fee to do so. I think 
MBFS should refund this too.
Mr S largely accepted my provisional decision. But he maintained that the car went to the 
dealership with no vibrations. He reiterated that a collision report was notified while the car 
was in the dealership. He didnt accept that the report was likely to have been activated 
while going up and down a ramp. He said, if that was the case, there would have been 
numerous notifications as the car went up and down a ramp.
He doesnt think the wheel was ever repaired, but MBFS had said it would charge him for the 
damage under the finance agreement. He also said, when the car was picked up, the agent 
told Mr S that hed hit the curb again when the steering stiffened up. He maintained it was 
unfair for MBFS to charge him for the cost of repairing the wheel. Mr S also queried whether 
MBFS was calculating the simple interest I previously awarded correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ss comments, but I dont think hes said anything that he hadnt raised 
before. So I dont see any reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my 
provisional decision. So I uphold and award the same compensation as I awarded in my 
second provisional decision.
Mr S has also queried the way MBFS has calculated the simple interest I awarded. But hell 
need to raise this with MBFS as its for MBFS to calculate this first and foremost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I uphold this complaint and I require Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to do the following:
1. Refund the deposit Mr S paid*;
2. Refund 20% of each monthly payment Mr S paid up to 20 July 2020 to reflect loss of use 
and enjoyment Mr S suffered*;
3. Refund all monthly payments Mr S paid since 20 July 2020*;
4. Refund the cost Mr S incurred  subject to Mr S providing proof of payment  in 
arranging to transport the car to and from the dealership in July 2020*;
5. Provide a pro-rata refund of the premium Mr S paid for his GAP insurance policy based 
on the length of time he had the car against the length of the policy*;
6. Refund the amount Mr S paid to remove his personalised number plate*;
7. Refund any administration charge Mr S paid to cancel his car insurance policy*; and
8. Pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr S.
* Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay 8% simple interest on this from 
the date of each payment until Mr S gets it back. If it thinks that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman