DRN-3096479
The complaint
Mr C complains that NRAM Limited are charging him higher monthly payments on his buy-
to-let mortgage in comparison to what hes paying on his mortgages with other lenders.
What happened
Mr C took out an interest only buy-to-let mortgage with Northern Rock in 2005. The 
mortgage was taken on an initial fixed interest rate for the first two years. The mortgage offer 
stated that after October 2007, a variable rate would apply that would be the lower of either 
the Bank of England base rate plus 2.49%, or the Northern Rock standard variable rate 
(SVR), for a period of five years and one month. After that, the mortgage would revert to the 
SVR for the remaining term of the mortgage.
Following Northern Rocks collapse, Mr Cs mortgage was moved to NRAM, which is a 
government owned lender. The mortgage has remained with NRAM since then and Mr C 
has continued to pay the SVR on his mortgage since 2012.
In July 2020 Mr C wrote to NRAM to ask why he was paying so much each month for this 
mortgage in comparison to the other mortgages he held with a different lender. He asked for 
compensation for the overpayments he believed hed made as a result of the comparatively 
higher amounts hed been charged.
NRAM issued a final response letter to Mr C addressing his concerns. They said as they 
were unaware of the details of the mortgage deals Mr C held elsewhere, they couldnt draw 
comparisons between the difference in payments. They said the way they calculated Mr Cs 
monthly payments was in line with industry practice. The letter said that NRAM were 
satisfied the account was operating as it should and that no errors had been made. So they 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service and asked us to look into things. Our investigator 
considered the complaint, but found that NRAM had not treated Mr C unfairly.
Mr C asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision, so the 
complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has told our service he has three buy-to-let mortgages, but two of his mortgages are 
with a different lender. He feels that as hes paying less monthly on the other two mortgages, 
NRAM have been overcharging him on the mortgage he holds with them. It seems that Mr C 
is unhappy that NRAM dont offer any preferential interest rate products, and so hes been 
paying the SVR since his mortgage reverted to that rate in 2012.
I can understand why Mr C might question why hes paying more for his NRAM mortgage 
each month than he is for his other mortgages, especially when one of those mortgages has 
a higher balance. And whilst I havent seen the full details of Mr Cs other mortgages, it 
seems the difference in monthly payments is likely a result of the interest rate charged. Id 
first like to set out that just because Mr C has paid more comparatively for his NRAM 
mortgage each month, that doesnt necessarily mean NRAM have done anything wrong, or 
treated him unfairly.
 
When Mr C took out this mortgage in 2005, the terms agreed at the time were that he would 
pay a fixed rate of interest for the first two years, followed by a variable rate either linked to 
the Bank of England base rate, or the banks SVR for five years and one month. Following 
that  the terms stated that the banks SVR would apply to the mortgage for the rest of the 
term. When looking at how the mortgage has operated, Im satisfied NRAM have applied the 
SVR to the mortgage in line with what was initially agreed.
Mr Cs mortgage was initially taken with Northern Rock, and I appreciate he had no choice 
about his mortgage being moved to NRAM after Northern Rock collapsed. Whilst it is 
common for mortgage borrowers to take out lower interest rate products once their initial 
fixed rates end, since Mr Cs mortgage has been with NRAM, they havent offered 
preferential interest rate products to any of their customers. That was a condition of the 
government bailout that resulted in NRAM taking on Northern Rocks mortgage customers. 
So Mr C hasnt had the option to take out a lower interest rate on his mortgage whilst its 
been with them. NRAM havent offered lower interest rates to any of their borrowers, and so 
havent treated Mr C any less favourably than any of their other mortgage customers. As a 
result, Im not persuaded NRAM have acted unfairly by not offering Mr C a lower interest rate 
on his mortgage.
Since Mr Cs mortgage reverted to the SVR hes been able to redeem his mortgage with 
NRAM without incurring any early repayment charges. Im mindful that Mr Cs mortgage with 
NRAM is not his residential mortgage, its a buy-to-let mortgage that hes using as a 
business investment. If Mr C was concerned about the interest rate he was paying on this 
mortgage, it was his responsibility to consider the market and re-mortgage with another 
lender if he wanted to take advantage of lower rates offered elsewhere. Ive seen copies of 
the mortgage statements NRAM sent to Mr C each year which clearly set out the interest 
rate applicable to the mortgage, and the monthly payment amount. So Mr C was able to 
make an informed choice about whether he wanted to remain with NRAM paying the SVR, 
or re-mortgage to another lender. Mr Cs mortgage remained with NRAM.
Overall, whilst I appreciate Mr C is unhappy with the amount hes paying for his NRAM 
mortgage, I havent seen any evidence to suggest thats been a result of any unfair 
treatment by NRAM. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman