DRN-2679962
The complaint
Mr N complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited declined the claim he made 
under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ns policy with Catlin Insurance started in May 2019. The policy was set up on 
moratorium underwriting terms. This meant that treatment for pre-existing medical conditions 
were excluded for at least the first two years from the date of joining.
Mr N was diagnosed with incisional hernia and a gallstone in August 2019. Mr N was 
seeking pre-authorisation from Catlin Insurance to treat both conditions. Catlin Insurance 
said it wont cover the incisional hernia, as it considered this to be directly related to a pre-
existing condition. 
Catlin Insurance also thought that the gallstone was most likely pre-existing, as they usually 
take a long time to form. But to confirm this, Catlin Insurance was trying to get Mr Ns 
medical history from the previous five years, but it wasnt getting a response from the 
relevant medical professionals.
Mr N then went ahead with the surgery for both the incisional hernia and the gallstone. Hed 
like Catlin Insurance to cover the costs. Catlin Insurance maintains its position on the 
incisional hernia. But it says that once it receives Mr Ns medical history from the previous 
five years, itll consider the claim for the gallstone.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Catlin Insurance had acted 
fairly when it said it needed to review Mr Ns medical history before it could confirm whether 
or not it would cover the gallstone part of the claim. But he didnt think Catlin Insurance had 
fairly declined Mr Ns claim for the incisional hernia. He didnt think it had fairly said this was 
a pre-existing condition under the terms of the policy because it was directly related to one.
Catlin Insurance didnt agree with our investigators findings. It said that had the previous 
surgery (for a pre-existing condition) not taken place, the incisional hernia wouldnt have 
occurred. So, it says this was a direct result of the pre-existing condition, and not covered by 
the policy.
Catlin Insurance has since clarified under which exclusions it believes the incisional hernia to 
fall under, as it says it happened as a direct result of another condition. As no agreement 
was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy defines a pre-existing condition to be Any medical condition or a specified 
related condition for which you have received medical treatment, had signs or symptoms 
(whether investigated or not) or sought advice in the 5 years prior to your date of entry.
These conditions would be covered under the policy after being insured for two continuous 
years, as long as Mr N met the conditions set in the policy. This part isnt relevant here, 
though, as Mr N hadnt been insured for two continuous years at the time.
The policy defines medical condition as Any accident, injury, illness or disease, including 
psychiatric illness.
Incisional hernia
The policy terms also list certain pre-existing conditions and specified related conditions that 
wont be covered. Incisional hernia or hernia arent included here. Neither is the pre-existing 
condition Mr N did have, and Catlin Insurance says the incisional hernia was a direct result 
of.
The pre-existing condition Mr N had was cancer, for which he had surgery. The incisional 
hernia occurred on the scar from that surgery. I dont think Catlin Insurance has acted fairly 
or reasonably when it declined Mr Ns claim for incisional hernia saying that its a pre-
existing condition because its a direct result of Mr Ns cancer, and the surgery he had. This 
is because the policy terms for pre-existing conditions dont refer to any related conditions 
(only the specified related ones which Ive covered above), or conditions that occur as a 
direct result of another condition.
Catlin Insurance has clarified under which exclusions it believes the incisional hernia to fall 
under, as it occurred as a direct result of another condition. These are:
Treatment for any illness, diseases or injuries arising from a procedure that is not covered 
under this policy.
And
Expenses incurred because of complications directly caused by an illness, injury or 
treatment for which cover is excluded or limited under your policy.
But I dont think its fair or reasonable for Catlin Insurance to rely on these exclusions either. 
This is because its likely that the treatment Mr N had for his cancer wouldve been 
considered eligible under the terms of the policy, had the policy been in place at the time. 
Its my understanding that these terms are intended to exclude issues arising from conditions 
or treatment that are specifically excluded under the policy  for example, cosmetic 
treatment. So, I dont think its reasonable for Catlin Insurance to apply these exclusions to 
issues potentially related to treatment/procedure that took place before the policy started and 
which was otherwise eligible.
So, I still dont think Catlin Insurance has acted fairly or reasonably by declining this part of 
Mr Ns claim, for the reasons its given.
Gallstone
Catlin Insurance says that gallstones take years to develop, and Mr N made a claim for 
treatment on this after about three months of taking out the policy. So, Catlin Insurance says 
this means this is a pre-existing condition. But its agreed to review Mr Ns medical history to 
reconsider this part of the claim.
Catlin Insurance has been trying to get Mr Ns medical history for the last five years, but it 
hasnt been able to get hold of this due to no response from the medical professionals. Ive had a look what the NHS website says about gallstones. Under the causes section, it 
refers to tiny crystals in the bile gradually growing (often over many years) into solid stones. 
So, having considered what Catlin Insurance has said, I dont think its unreasonable for it to 
seek to review Mr Ns medical history before confirming whether or not this part of his claim 
is covered, as he may have had signs or symptoms for this in the five years before taking out 
the policy.
So, my provisional decision was that Catlin Insurance should pay Mr Ns claim for incisional 
hernia, together with interest.
Mr N responded to my provisional decision and said he agreed to move forward with the 
decision as it was. Catlin Insurance didnt respond, and the deadline to do so has now 
passed. So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any new information or evidence to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. That means Ive reached the 
same conclusions I did in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Catlin Insurance has fairly declined Mr Ns claim 
for incisional hernia. Ive set out below how it should put things right.
But in terms of the gallstone, I dont think its unreasonable for Catlin Insurance to seek to 
review Mr Ns medical history before confirming whether or not this part of his claim is 
covered, as he may have had signs or symptoms for this in the five years before taking out 
the policy.
Putting things right
I direct Catlin Insurance to deal with Mr Ns claim for incisional hernia under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. It should: 
reimburse Mr N the costs he incurred in relation to the incisional hernia, and
pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per year* on the amount it pays back to Mr N from 
the date he made the payments, to the date of settlement.
*If Catlin Insurance considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from any interest paid, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. I direct XL Catlin Insurance 
Company UK Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 Renja Anderson
Ombudsman