DRN-4077872
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments that were 
made in error.
What happened
The director of M explains that he didnt have access to online banking for Ms account in 
April 2022. So, he asked a branch to set up payments for a period while hed be away. He 
says that three of those payments went to the incorrect details for a contractor. And hes only 
been able to recover one of those payments for M.
HSBC said it wouldnt be doing anything more. The director had signed payment authorities 
confirming the payee and it had acted on these. It had attempted to recover the payments. 
One for £500 made on 25 April 2022 had been returned on 26 May 2022 by the beneficiarys 
bank. But the payments of £500 on 18 April 2022 and £765 on 11 April 2022 hadnt been 
returned. M would need to pursue this with the person who received the money and may 
want to take legal advice. It had paid M £75 to reflect any misunderstanding about its 
process.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC pay M £400 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. There were two payment mandates for the beneficiary on the system 
in branch. And he thought that the branch could have helped this issue being avoided. In a 
call with HSBC following the final response a member of staff had told the director that only 
the payment on 25 April 2022 had been recalled correctly. M had made the payments again 
and should be compensated for the level of service. But for the payments to be refunded the 
beneficiary would need to agree. And hed contacted the third-party bank involved which 
said that this hadnt happened. Addressing this wasnt something this service could do and 
would be a matter for M to pursue.
M didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said that he didnt 
make these payments and the outstanding amount was £1,265. He didnt have access to 
online banking at the time and this mandate had been removed months earlier. M would 
likely lose its contractor if it pursued this, and the contractor had said that this money wasnt 
in the account that had been closed. M wanted a full refund.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 27 March 2023. I set out below what I said.
I wanted to say a bit more about what I understood happened. From the information 
provided by HSBC I could see that the old mandate for this contractor was removed by M 
from internet banking in August 2021. And that M had made subsequent payments to the 
new details without incident. Id seen copies of the signed payment authorities dated 7 April 
2022. And I could also see evidence that for reasons that are unclear both the old and new 
payment details in relation to this payee could be seen on a branch system. It seems that M 
arranged these forward payments and 12 others for different beneficiaries at the time.
There is information from the branch dated 2 September 2022 about the directors visit. And 
that the payments were made when the beneficiaries were confirmed. It was said that hed 
confirmed which of the two beneficiaries relating to the three payments in dispute should be 
used. I understood that the payments were disputed on 6 May 2022. And Id listened to a 
later call Mr M had with a member of staff on 6 September 2022. He was clearly told that 
only one was recalled correctly and this was the one refunded and the others hadnt been. 
The file notes from HSBC also state only one request to recall each payment could be made. 
Our investigator later contacted the third-party bank and further refund was denied.
My assessment
I didnt doubt that the branch confirmed the beneficiaries with the director. The name on both 
mandates for the payee here was broadly the same. I was satisfied that had the two been 
put to the director hed have been confused and said use the current one. That ought to 
have been established from more recent payments with the help of branch staff. And I 
considered he intended to make a payment to the current mandate.
It had been possible to recover a correctly recalled payment. So, it seems most likely that 
the other payments had a good chance of successful recall at the time too. Repayment of 
one certainly hadnt been refused at that stage. And as the incorrect details were used for 
the others I didnt consider that HSBC took the reasonable efforts Id expect to recall a 
misdirected payment in line with industry guidance.
M says it has made the payments again and so it is out of pocket. Had that arisen only from 
the issue in branch I might have come to the view that this was a shared responsibility 
between M and HSBC. But when I also took into account the error in making the recalls I 
found that the liability for Ms loss is fairly down to HSBC. I wouldnt think it reasonable for M 
to be required to take legal action against one of its contractors who in any event said that 
they didnt have money in an account that had been closed. And such costs may in any 
event outweigh the amounts involved. I appreciated that HSBC will now have limited options 
regarding these payments and thats for the reasons I gave above. 
In light of this I thought that M should receive a refund for the payments provided it can show 
that it made them all again (the full £1,785) so it isnt unduly enriched. It may helpfully do that 
in response to my provisional decision so that this can be resolved. Given the circumstances 
Id set out above I didnt think any further compensation for inconvenience for M is fair and 
reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it didnt have any further comments to make and that it would make the refund.
M provided bank statements and had highlighted the duplicate payments it made. It said that 
it hadnt received the payment of £400 our investigator has referred to or heard from HSBC 
since then. M also said it had overpaid charges and interest on the account since the funds 
were returned and it said it could provide these if I required them.
Ive looked closely at the statements and am satisfied that M has shown it paid an equivalent 
amount to the correct beneficiarys details at the relevant time. Having said that I also note 
based on the timing of these payments that there may have been an opportunity for M to 
alert HSBC to the issue earlier although I understand the director was on holiday. With that in mind I wont be looking into any related charges or interest. And Im afraid that I 
explained in my provisional decision why in all the circumstances I wouldnt be awarding any 
further compensation for inconvenience than the £75 HSBC had already paid. I now also 
take into account what Ive said above about the duplicate payments, and I wont be 
departing from my provisional decision. I consider this to be a fair resolution.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay M £1,265 
as it has now agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman