DRN-2679723
The complaint
Mrs E complains that the amounts recorded in her hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) were incorrect resulting in her monthly 
payment and interest charges being wrong. She says this meant the amount in the default 
notice was incorrect.  
Mrs E is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mrs E 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs E entered a HPA with VWFS in July 2018 to acquire a new car. In May 2019, VWFS 
terminated the HPA due to the arrears on Mrs Es account. Mrs E raised a complaint with 
VWFS saying that she had paid a higher deposit amount than had been recorded within the 
HPA.
VWFS issued its final response letter in March 2020. In was satisfied the correct deposit 
amount had been included in the HPA and so didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Mrs E didnt accept VWFS response and raised her complaint with this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She found that the amounts in the documents 
were consistent and that further evidence had been provided to explain the difference of 
£250 between the amounts Mrs E paid at the time of entering the HPA and the amounts 
recorded on the agreements. Given this she didnt find evidence to say that Mrs E had been 
charged incorrect amounts.
Mrs E didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has raised several issues. Issues regarding the termination of the HPA have been 
dealt with in a separate decision. This decision deals with Mrs Es complaint that the correct 
deposit amount wasnt included in her HPA meaning that she was being asked to pay more 
than she should. Having considered this, I agree with the conclusions reached by our 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mrs E entered a HPA with VWFS in July 2018 to acquire a new car. I have looked at 
the total cost of the car included in the HPA and this is the same as the amount 
itemised in the sale invoice. The HPA sets out the payment amounts and had Mrs E 
been concerned these were incorrect I would have expected her to have raised this 
at the time.
Mrs E has raised concerns about the deposit included in the HPA not being correct. 
She has provided copies of two receipts from July 2018, one for £500 and one for 
£351. The sales invoice records the £500 deposit payment. It then also records a 
part exchange amount of £5,250 bringing the total contribution to £5,750. The car 
Mrs E part exchanged had outstanding finance and a settlement amount of £780.44 
is recorded on the sales invoice and this number is also provided in the information 
Mrs E has provided. This gives a net contribution of £4,969.56. The sales invoice 
records the finance provided by VWFS as being £50,158.44 and this is the amount 
the HPA was provided for. The difference between the total costs of the car less the 
net contribution from Mrs E and the finance from VWFS was £2,101. There was then 
a deposit contribution of £2,000 bringing the amount owing from Mrs E to £101. The 
advance payment recorded in the HPA is £7,070.56. This is equal to the £601 
deposit (£500 plus £101), £5,250 part exchange, £2,000 deposit contribution less the 
£780.44 paid to settle the previous agreement. Based on the information I have seen 
I think the amounts included in the HPA appear correct. I note comments about the 
issues with the part exchanged car, but this complaint is about the amounts included 
in the agreements and based on what I have seen these appear correct.
As the payment made in July 2018 of £500 is clearly shown as the deposit in the 
sales invoice I havent considered this further. There is no evidence of a payment of 
£101 but instead Mrs E has provided a receipt for a payment of £351. The difference 
is £250. I can understand why this has been questioned but the dealer has provided 
a further invoice showing that there was a charge of £250 made to cover the cost of 
repairs to the car Mrs E part exchanged as part of the HPA. It is not unusual for 
charges to be made for damage that falls outside of fair wear and tear and it has 
been explained that the part exchange amount had been agreed and then the car to 
be part exchanged was inspected and damage identified and so the charge made. 
The invoice supporting this has been provided and the issue with the date explained. 
As Mrs E made a payment for £351 and the information provided by the dealer 
supports this being for the £250 damage change (which falls outside of the HPA 
agreement) along with £101 which was due under the HPA I find this supports the 
deposit amounts included in the HPA as being correct. As Mrs E made the payment 
of £351 and I have nothing to show she raised concerns about the amount at the 
time I have nothing to say this was unfairly charged. 
The information provided in the documents clearly sets out the amounts paid and 
payable and Mrs E signed the adequate explanation form. I think that the information 
provided to her was enough for her to know the payments required under the 
agreement and how these were derived.
Mrs E says that her account should have been put on hold due to the concerns she 
had raised about the amounts included in the agreement. As noted above, the issue 
of terminating the HPA has been dealt with in a separate decision and I do not find 
the issues raised in this complaint mean that VWFS has acted unfairly regarding this 
issue.
Mrs E has challenged the amount she is being pursued for. However, as I havent 
found anything to suggest the amounts in the documents I have seen were incorrect 
and the default notice I have seen contained the same total amount payable as 
recorded in the HPA I do not find evidence of Mrs E being asked to pay more than 
agreed. Mrs E has noted a large payment made towards the agreement in August 
2020. If she feels this hasnt been reflected in the amounts owed she should raise 
this with VWFS for investigation. Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not find that I have anything to suggest 
Mrs Es deposit was incorrectly recorded on the HPA or that she has been charged more 
through the HPA than she should have. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman