DRN-3024932
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application that Mr H made in 2019 on the advice and 
recommendation of a mortgage broker who is part of First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS 
Mortgage Network. Mr H says the broker mis-advised him about using a Lifetime Individual 
Savings Account (LISA) as his deposit for the purchase. As a consequence, Mr H says he 
lost out on a £2,000 bonus. Hes looking to be reimbursed the £2,000 and to have his broker 
fee of £499 refunded. Mr H is represented here by Mrs H.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, 
well generally attach some weight to it. In Mr Hs case, theres nothing in the point-of-sale 
documentation to suggest a discussion took place about Mr Hs LISA. 
The counter to that is Mr Hs evidence, and that of Mrs H who was also present at the 
meeting with the broker, that the LISA was discussed.  However, theres a difficulty there in 
the slightly contradictory nature of what theyve said about the content of the discussion. On 
the one hand, theyve said the broker told Mr H his solicitor would sort it out after completion. 
At the same time, theyve said at no time was Mr H advised he should inform his solicitor 
about the LISA.
I have  to decide  what  is more  likely,  on the balance  of probabilities,  given  the available  
evidence.  When considering any complaint like this, as Mr H is the one bringing the 
complaint against PRIMIS, for me to uphold the complaint means Mr Hs version of events 
needs to be more likely than PRIMISs version; not just as likely. Having done so, Im not 
satisfied that test has been met. Rather, its a situation where one partys word is different 
from the others, and neither is more persuasive than the other.
Mr H says that he was paying the broker to sort everything out, including instructing his 
solicitor to deal with the LISA. But only Mr H could give instructions to his solicitor. The 
brokers remit was to arrange the mortgage, having first made a suitable recommendation 
based on the information gathered at the point of sale.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman