DRN-4130611
The complaint
Mr S complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who declined his 
claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was on a train and had the phone in a gift bag. He said that he placed the bag on the 
floor. And when he left the train, he left the bag on the train. 
He made a claim with Assurant. Initially the claim was accepted. But, during the claims 
process, Assurant asked Mr S to provide further information. One of the pieces of 
information was to provide proof of identity of the person whom Mr S said the phone was a 
gift for. Mr S refused to provide this information. So, Assurant made the decision, based on 
the information it had. 
Ultimately it declined Mr S claim. The reason it declined the claim was based on the policy 
terms and conditions, in that Mr S had failed to take reasonable care of the phone. It also 
mentioned that there had been discrepancies in Mr S versions of events. 
Mr S complained to Assurant, as he said that he had complied with everything it had asked. 
In its final response, Assurant maintained its position. It accepted that there had been some 
service failings, for which it apologised. And as Mr S was given his referral rights, he referred 
a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered his complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that Assurant hadnt been fair as Mr S hadnt knowingly left the phone on the train, he simply 
forgot it. She recommended that Assurant accept the claim and pay Mr S £200 
compensation for the poor customer service he experienced. 
Mr S accepted the view, Assurant did not. It said that there had been a few versions of the 
event given by Mr S, and because of this it requested further information from him. Mr S 
refused to provide that information. And as its the policyholders responsibility to prove an 
insured event, it could only assess the claim on the evidence that it had been provided with. 
So, it declined the claim on the basis that Mr S didnt take reasonable care with such a 
valuable phone. It also said that it was unfair for it to pay £200 compensation to Mr S as it 
wasnt warranted given the actual error, for which it apologised. So, it asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 April 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 4 
May 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr S, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, as well as the policy terms and 
conditions. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether Assurant was fair to decline the 
claim. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions, and in particular the obligations of both 
parties when a claim is made. I note that most insurance policies (like this one) require the 
policyholder to prove the insured event. In other words, Mr S would need to prove his loss. 
This is usually done by providing evidence. The obligations of Assurant was to assess the 
evidence that Mr S provided. 
Assurant asked Mr S for evidence such as proof of purchase, proof of travel, as well as proof 
of identity of the person whom the gift was for. Assurant said that as Mr S had explained that 
the phone was a gift, this was the only reason why it asked for the proof of identity. I accept 
that Assurant could ask for information for Mr S to prove the loss, given that it was Mr S who 
raised the issue about the phone being a gift. So, I think Assurant were fair to ask Mr S to 
provide this information. Further, the policy terms and conditions state that Assurant can ask 
for additional information to support a claim.
I understand that Mr S chose not to provide this evidence, which was his choice. But we 
would expect Assurant to still assess the claim on the information that it had. I havent seen 
any evidence from Mr S that said that Assurant did not assess the claim on the information 
that he had provided to them. Indeed, Assurant explained that it continued to assess the 
claim despite the lack of proof of identity. And seemingly despite Mr S not reporting the loss 
to the police, which was one of the requirements under the policy.
Assurant said that the policy terms and conditions provided that policyholders had to take 
reasonable care: 
We know how important your mobile phone is to you and we expect that you will take care 
of your mobile phone. If you don't take care of your mobile phone then we may not pay your 
claim. Taking care of your mobile phone means:  Not knowingly leaving your mobile phone 
somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or 
purse there?  If you need to leave your mobile phone somewhere then we expect you to 
lock it away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it 
with someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.  Making reasonable 
enquiries to find your phone if you think you have lost it. If you knowingly leave your mobile 
phone where others can see it but you cannot and your mobile phone is then lost or stolen 
we may not pay your claim. We will always take into account where you are and what you 
are doing when we assess whether you have taken care of your phone. If we believe you 
have not taken care of your mobile phone, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may 
decline your claim.
Mr S initially told Assurant that the recipients birthday was on 21 January, and he was 
travelling on a train to give the phone to her as it was a gift. He said that the phone was in his hand, unopened and not set up. He also mentioned that he had a gift bag. When he left 
the train, he noticed the phone was missing. 
Assurant provided me with call recordings, which I have listened to. The first call recording 
was when Mr S initially reported the loss. In that recording Mr S said that he had the phone 
in a bag all wrapped up which he was carrying. He said that he was sitting down and just 
walked off the train.  
In the second recording Mr S expands his explanation. He said that the phone was for a gift. 
That he was travelling alone. But he said that he was holding the phone in his hand and then 
came off the train and realised that he didnt have the phone. Later on, when he was asked if 
he could provide proof of identity. He refused to provide it and refused to answer any further 
questions.  
The final call recording effectively began with Assurant explaining that Mr S claim had 
triggered an internal fraud prevention control. The advisor did explain to Mr S that it didnt 
mean that he was fraudulent. There was a discussion instigated from Mr S about why the 
claim had been escalated to the fraud department. Mr S was later asked about the 
circumstances of the loss. He explained he had the phone in his hand and then put it in the 
gift bag, which was on the floor, between his legs. He said that he usually did this with his 
property when he was on the train. He said that he left the train and realised he had left the 
bag and phone on the train. Assurant then further assessed his claim and told Mr S that his 
claim was declined. The reason given for the refusal, was that he hadnt taken reasonable 
care of the device and it had been left at risk. 
Having reviewed all the evidence that has been presented to me. Im satisfied that Assurant 
was fair to decline the claim. And Ill explain why. Mr S had given three versions of events 
during the claims process. From the phone being in his hand, to it being in a bag and lastly 
to it being on the floor of the train, between his legs. It is because of these inconsistent 
accounts of the loss, that I dont think that Mr S has demonstrated that he took reasonable 
care of the phone. Consequently, I cant agree that Assurant was unfair in declining the 
claim. 
I have next considered whether Assurant ought to pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. It recognised that there were service issues, namely that its call handler 
hadnt handled the call with Mr S well. I have listened to the call, and I agree. Assurant 
apologised for this.
When we assess the level of compensation, we look at the kind of incident as well as the 
impact of the error. Currently, there is no evidence about the lasting impact the phone call 
had on Mr S. So, I think that the impact was minimal. In the circumstances, we would say 
that an apology, just as Assurant did was sufficient. Consequently, I dont think its 
reasonable for me to recommend that Assurant award compensation. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr S will be, currently, 
I dont think he has demonstrated that he took reasonable care of the phone. Nor do I think 
Assurant should pay compensation, as the apology was enough. Accordingly, I wont be able 
to reasonably ask Assurant to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S did not respond to my provisional decision, despite a further request for him to respond. 
Assurant had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. I do understand that the outcome is likely not as Mr S wouldve liked, but Ive considered all 
the evidence and I think that the outcome reached is both fair and reasonable. For these 
reasons, my final decision will be the same as my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman