DRN-2248728
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with how TSB Bank plc administered her savings accounts.
What happened
Mrs P held two accounts with TSB  an Easy Saver and an Advantage Saver. During a 
meeting at a TSB branch in March 2020, Mrs P said she was advised to close her 
Advantage Saver and amalgamate it with her Easy Saver. She said she was told this would 
earn her savings a higher interest rate.
 
Mrs P agreed. But said she did so on the condition that she would retain the facility to move 
money externally by telephone banking. Mrs P used telephone banking to send money from 
her Advantage Saver to her current account at another bank. Shes said TSBs advisor 
reassured her and, based on that information, Mrs P agreed to close her Advantage Saver.
 
Some weeks later, with her savings in an Easy Saver account, Mrs P contacted TSB to 
arrange a telephone transfer to her external current account. To her surprise, Mrs P was told 
this wasnt possible. Instead she was told she could move money to accounts she held 
within TSB, but not externally.
 
Mrs P raised a complaint. She said using telephone banking to transfer money externally 
was something she relied upon. She had this facility with her Advantage Saver, and said she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with closing it if shed been given the correct information in 
branch. Mrs P also said, as a result, shed been forced to take other measures to have 
access to some money.
 
TSB sent its final response to Mrs P on 25 March 2020. In it, TSB said the Advantage Saver 
was a legacy account which was no longer available. And most available savings products 
didnt offer a facility which allowed external transfers, so it wouldnt have expected staff to 
highlight the difference. TSB also said customers have a responsibility to ensure they have 
the facilities they need when making changes to the accounts they hold. So it didnt uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint.
 
Further, TSB said Mrs P could open a current account to transfer money externally. To do 
so, TSB said Mrs P would need to make an appointment at a branch or go online. But it 
stressed that Mrs P should check branch availability because of the ongoing Covid-19 
pandemic.
 
Mrs P remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. An investigator here 
considered what happened and he thought TSB had done something wrong. He thought, 
given her reliance on it, that Mrs P wouldve been clear about her need to retain a facility 
which allowed external transfers. And the investigator didnt think Mrs P wouldve closed her 
Advantage Saver if it meant losing that facility. As such, he believed Mrs P had been caused 
some distress and inconvenience. So he thought TSB should pay her £150 compensation. 
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators findings. She said TSBs actions had a catastrophic 
impact on her, and shed had to resort to cashing in part of a long-term investment as a 
means of accessing funds. Mrs P didnt think £150 compensation was enough.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mrs P has taken the time to explain her position in detail, and Id like to pass on my 
thanks to her for doing so. Ive summarised the complaint in far less detail, but I dont 
intend any discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of this service.
In her testimony, Mrs P said she wouldnt have agreed to close her Advantage Saver 
account if shed been given the right information. Shes explained just how important 
a savings account which allowed external transfers to her current account was to her. 
Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs P has said, and her Advantage Saver statements 
show she did use it to transfer money to her external current account every other 
month or so. And with that in mind I agree with our investigator. I dont think it likely 
Mrs P would have closed her Advantage Saver unless she thought shed retain the 
facility to move money externally.
TSB has said most of its savings accounts dont offer customers the ability to move 
money externally. So it doesnt think it would have been reasonable to expect staff to 
highlight this difference to Mrs P at the time. But, in my view, knowing the features of 
accounts on offer and the consequences of closing existing ones  particularly when 
guiding customers  is important. I accept mistakes can happen, and Im sure the 
suggestion proposed to Mrs P (that she amalgamate her savings accounts) was 
intended to benefit her. But regardless, I still think TSB shouldve made sure Mrs P 
understood what facilities she would have if she combined her savings accounts. 
Given that I dont think it did, Im satisfied Mrs P has been inconvenienced.
 
Unfortunately, Mrs Ps Advantage Saver cant be reopened. It was a legacy account 
carried over from a bank which merged with TSB some years ago and is no longer 
available. So, in the absence of the account itself, I consider compensation an 
appropriate way of putting things right.
 
Mrs P has explained the impact this matter had. She was shielding due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, and I dont doubt it was a worrying time. Mrs P has said TSBs 
actions put her into a financially vulnerable position, and Ive seen that she quickly 
decided to cash in part of a long-term investment to be sure she had access to some 
money. Mrs P has asked TSB pay compensation which covers the return she 
wouldve received on this money, had it still been invested.
 
I know Mrs P was, quite understandably, very concerned about having sure access 
to some money. But, on the other hand, shes not said she was expecting any 
significant outgoings at the time. The statements shes provided for her current 
account show a generally healthy balance around the time this issue arose, even 
before money from her long-term investment was paid in. And she was still receiving 
credits into her current account, such as her pension.
Moreover, in the following weeks, TSB did provide options for savings customers to 
access their money. In May 2020 it began to allow transfers up to £100 per week 
from savings accounts, via telephone banking, to external accounts. It also offered customers the option to open a current account, which could then be used to receive 
money from a savings account before transferring externally. And in June 2020, Ive 
seen TSB arranged to send a debit card to Mrs P so she could visit an ATM if she 
was able.
Mrs P has said she wasnt aware of the ability to transfer £100 per week. And its 
right to point out that some of the options werent available immediately. Its also fair 
to say that some werent very attractive to Mrs P straight away, given her need to 
shield. But while Mrs P was free to choose the action she thought appropriate  
cashing in a long-term investment is a significant step to take.
Looking objectively, I cant see that Mrs P was being forced into  or already in  
financial difficulty. TSBs proposed options might not have been perfect, and I 
understand there may have been some confusion early on about what was available. 
But I dont think that wouldve been intentional. Its important to remember that TSB 
was adjusting to the pandemic too, and it was trying to find feasible solutions for 
customers to access their money. 
Mrs P very quickly chose to draw down some of her investment. She arranged to do 
so almost immediately after she discovered her account didnt allow external 
transfers. But given shes not said she was expecting any significant outgoings, and 
doesnt appear to have been in financial difficulty, I think she equally couldve chosen 
to wait a short while to see how things developed. That wouldve provided the 
opportunity to keep in contact with TSB and to see if any of its subsequent options 
worked for her. 
With that in mind, I dont think cashing in part of her long-term investment was a step 
Mrs P was compelled to take. And it follows that I dont think it would be fair to 
require TSB compensate her for the amount shes seeking.  
TSB has offered Mrs P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused and, in the overall circumstances, I think thats a fair and reasonable way of 
resolving this complaint. 
Mrs P responded and said she had no further comments. TSB responded and said it 
disagreed with my findings. Specifically, it said Mrs P made the choice to close her 
Advantage Saver and  because it hasnt made any error in the management of her 
accounts  compensation isnt appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional findings I said TSB has offered Mrs P £150 compensation. But I should 
clarify here that TSB hasnt, in fact, offered any. Our investigator thought £150 was 
appropriate in the circumstances, but TSB didnt agree and has reiterated that it doesnt 
believe any compensation is warranted. 
Mrs P has explained consistently that she relied upon a telephone banking facility which 
allowed external transfers. The account statements for her Advantage Saver support this, 
showing she moved money to her current account at another bank. When she spoke to TSB about her options Mrs P has said she was clear about wanting to 
retain that facility. And given her reliance on it I think its likely she was. So while TSB says it 
was Mrs Ps choice to close her Advantage Saver account, Im not persuaded she wouldve 
done so if it was clear shed no longer be able to move money externally by telephone.
As I set out in my provisional findings, I think TSB shouldve made sure Mrs P understood 
what facilities shed have if she combined her savings accounts. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think it did. As a result, I think Mrs P was inconvenienced because she no 
longer had access to a facility which she relied upon  so I consider compensation an 
appropriate way of putting things right. And in the overall circumstances I think £150 is a fair 
and reasonable amount to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs P £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman