DRN-3346636
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B, represented by Mrs S, complains that TSB Bank plc didnt send out 
correspondence related to a Passbook Saver account held with it.
Mrs S is assisted in this matter by Mr S. But, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs S throughout.
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs S received a letter addressed to the late Mrs B from TSB relating to a 
Passbook Saver account that Mrs B held with it. Mrs S said that the letter included 
information related to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and that TSB 
was required to ensure they were aware of the information in the letter each year. However, 
this was the first time she was aware Mrs B held this account with TSB as she had never 
received any correspondence from TSB about the account before. This was despite being 
the executor of Mrs Bs estate from 2015 when Mrs B passed away and having acted as her 
Power of Attorney for several years before this.
Mrs S contacted TSB and removed the money from the account shortly after receiving the 
letter, which amounted to £9,642.04. However, unhappy with matters, Mrs S also 
complained to TSB. Mrs S felt that they had lost out on the value of the interest the money 
would have earned had it been invested in a fixed term account earlier.
TSB reviewed matters. In summary, it said correspondence about the account would have 
been sent at the point TSB split from being a larger bank in 2013. Although, it also pointed 
out that the correspondence after this point would have been limited due to the nature of 
passbook accounts. TSB also said it wasnt aware that Mrs B had passed away in 2015.
 
TSB further explained that the passbook would have been in Mrs Bs possession, and it 
therefore couldnt be held responsible if the account hadnt previously been discussed with 
Mrs S. Mrs S remained unhappy with TSBs response and brought the complaint to this 
service. An investigator reviewed matters and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as 
she didnt think TSB was responsible for Mrs S not being aware of the account.
TSB didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mrs S did. She thought TSB should have 
provided an annual summary about the account from 2013 but it didnt do so. So, she still 
thought TSB should cover the loss of interest the funds could have earned over the period. 
She also pointed out that there had been issues previously with the address details held on 
file, which resulted in some correspondence being sent to an incorrect address in the past.
I issued a provisional decision where I explained I wasnt persuaded that correspondence 
about the account had been sent to the correct address prior to 2019 and I thought that the 
estate had lost out as a result. So, I explained I was minded to uphold the complaint and ask 
TSB to pay any loss of interest based on what the estate would have likely earned, had the 
money been moved into a fixed term account.
Mrs S was satisfied with my provisional decision. TSB disagreed with it. In summary, it said 
that Mrs S should have been aware of the account as the executor of the estate because the 
balance of the account was not a small amount, and she became aware of it when it was 
closed in December 2019. It also pointed out that the account was receiving interest during 
the time it was open, which the estate has had the benefit of.  
Overall, TSB didnt agree it should be held responsible for any loss of interest that may have 
occurred just because it couldnt say for definite that it sent the letters relating to the FSCS, 
as other correspondence could have been sent over the period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments TSB raised in response to the provisional decision.
In its submissions to this service, TSB has said it would have sent out correspondence about 
the account over the years, including annual interest statements and notices of variation. So, 
it thinks it has done enough to notify Mrs S of the existence of the account. However, Mrs S 
has said she didnt receive any correspondence from TSB prior to the letter dated 
October 2019 and had no knowledge of the account up until this point. Mrs S says that once 
she received the letter from October 2019, she contacted TSB shortly afterwards to arrange 
the withdrawal of the money.
On balance, Im not persuaded that correspondence about the account was sent to the 
correct address prior to 2019. I say this because Mrs S said the letters werent received and 
I find her comments plausible. This is somewhat backed up by the actions she took upon 
receipt of the letter in October 2019  which is the only letter that isnt in dispute was sent.
Additionally, whilst TSB says correspondence was sent over the years, it hasnt been able to 
evidence the address it sent these to  other than the letter sent in October 2019 which 
Mrs S says was received. Ive also noted that there were issues with the address details held 
on the system in 2012. Based on the records Ive seen, I cant see that these were updated 
sufficiently at the time and it appears that the most recent address held in 2012 was 
incorrect. 
Clearly, the address details held in 2019 were correct, but its unclear how these were 
updated, given that there would have been no contact from Mrs S who says she wasnt 
aware of the account. On balance, this makes me think its more likely that TSBs IT systems 
reverted back to the correct address in 2019 instead.
Had Mrs S received correspondence from 2013, she could have accessed the money in the 
account and done something with it earlier than she did in 2019. Mrs S told this service she 
feels they have lost out on the interest the money would have earned over this period, had it 
been invested in a fixed term account and would accept this amount as a fair resolution to 
the complaint. Having reviewed Mrs Ss testimony, and the management of Mrs Bs other 
accounts, I consider it plausible that the money would have likely been moved, had Mrs S 
received correspondence about the account.
As Im not persuaded the letters were sent, I think the estate has lost out here. So, I uphold 
the complaint and require TSB to pay any loss of interest based on what the estate would 
have likely earned had the money been moved into a fixed term account. It should pay this 
from September 2013  when TSB took responsibility for the account  until the account was 
closed in December 2019. Mrs S thinks a rate of around 1.5% is fair. Ive thought about what Mrs S has said and Ive reviewed information about available rates from the time on fixed 
term products. And, on balance, I consider this to be a reasonable amount to award in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, and require TSB Bank plc to calculate the 
difference between the interest received on the funds in the Passbook Saver account from 
September 2013 until December 2019 and the interest that would have been received over 
the same period had the funds been transferred into a fixed term account with an interest 
rate of 1.5%. It should then pay the difference to the estate of Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman