DRN-3200028
The complaint
Mr G says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on his two accounts be 
refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about two catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Mr G. 
Account 1 was opened in August 2013 with Mr G being given an initial credit limit of £125. 
Account 2 was opened in December 2019 with Mr G being given an initial credit limit of 
£150. This credit limit for that account was increased 6 times until it reached £1500 in 
September 2020. 
Mr G says hes unhappy that J D Williams increased his credit limits and worsened his 
financial position. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Gs complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised that he wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on either 
account from the time it offered Mr G the increased credit limit on Account 2 in February 
2020. J D Williams has disagreed, saying that it had no reason to think that Mr G was 
experiencing financial difficulties given that he appeared to be managing his accounts 
without problems. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr 
G could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, 
the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mr G with any additional credit from February 2020 onwards. J D Williams didnt 
agree with what our adjudicator said. 
Nonetheless, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with 
Mr G, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that 
would mean J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have continued 
increasing Mr Gs credit limit on Account 2.
Having reviewed the complaint in detail, Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint on the 
same basis as our adjudicator. I will explain why. 
J D Williams says that when Mr G opened each account there were no signs of financial 
difficulties based on the checks it carried out. Having reviewed those checks, and taking into 
account the relatively low opening credit limits of £125 (Account 1) and £150 (Account 2) he 
was given, I dont think there is enough to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for 
J D Williams to have approved each account. J D Williams didnt however ask about Mr Gs 
income, which is something that may have helped it begin to build a picture of Mr Gs overall 
financial circumstances. 
Ive noticed that Mr G apparently experienced difficulty with meeting his monthly payments 
for Account 1 from July 2016, apparently leading to the account being frozen in January 
2017 and no longer used after that. Although we dont have a full picture of what happened 
at around that time, this happened three years before Mr G opened Account 2. So I agree 
that its a sufficient length of time for it not to be something Id have expected J D Williams to 
take into consideration. 
Mr G told us that by the time Account 2 was opened, in December 2019, his income was 
around £1500 per month. Mr G has also provided us with bank statements covering the two 
months leading up to the opening of that account. From my review of these I agree that that 
Mr G at that time already had a significant level of debt commitments to other lenders, 
including credit cards, short term loans and a car loan. This took up at least £1000 of Mr Gs 
disposable income each month. It also appears that money was regularly being transferred 
to him from other bank accounts. Taking this into consideration alongside the funds Mr Gs 
had coming in, it seems to me likely that each month Mr G would have been left with very 
little disposable income, if any, in order to meet his essential living and housing expenses 
were it not for his continuing reliance on borrowing. I can also see that Mr G was continuing 
to borrow money from lending sources to ensure he could meet his debt payments and day-
to-day living expenses. So I think that had J D Williams carried out reasonable and proportionate checks at this time it likely would have been clear that Mr G was in no position 
to take on extra borrowing. 
Ive also seen that January 2020 J D Williams acquired information about Mr G having a 
historic default that had been registered 22 months earlier. I think that also should have 
prompted further enquiry about Mr Gs financial situation, given that he was given a credit 
limit increase a month later. 
Having looked at what we know about Mr Gs financial situation and his lending history 
with J D Williams and elsewhere, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that the point was 
reached in February 2020 by which time J D Williams should reasonably have seen that 
any further lending was likely to be unaffordable, or otherwise harmful for Mr G. I 
therefore think J D Williams ought to have realised that there was a significant risk that 
increasing Mr Gs credit limit in these circumstances would lead to his indebtedness 
increasing unsustainably.
It follows that I think that Mr G lost out because J D Williams increased his credit limit in 
February 2020 on Account 2. The result of that was that Mr Gs financial situation 
worsened as he increased his borrowing. I therefore think J D Williams ought to have 
realised that there was a significant risk that increasing Mr Gs credit limit in these 
circumstances would lead to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, worsening his 
already difficult financial situation. Instead J D Williams actions were likely to have 
unfairly prolonged Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing him to use additional credit by way of 
a total of 5 further credit limit increases between March and September 2020, causing 
him further financial difficulty. 
It follows that J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right
Rework Mr Gs account to ensure that from 8 February 2020 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £150, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit that was in place before that date for 
Account 1) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have 
been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mr G to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Mr G has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file 
from 8 February 2020 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr G, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D 
Williams should also remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file from 
8 February 2020 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman