DRN-3453600
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was misled by Equiniti Financial Services Limited (EFSL). He says 
that, when he sold his shares, he was expecting to also receive the proceeds from the sale 
of the scrip dividend.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by his wife. For ease, Ill refer to everything as if its 
been said by him.
What happened
Mr S had a holding of shares which Ill refer to as A. EFSL wrote to Mr S in August 2021 to 
tell him it was offering a postal share dealing service until 7 October 2021 if he wanted to 
buy more shares or sell his entire holding.
Due to his personal circumstances at the time, Mr S decided to sell his shares and he 
completed and returned the instruction form. EFSL sold his shares on 11 August and sent 
him a cheque for the proceeds.
Mr S participated in As dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP). He says EFSLs letter about its 
share dealing service said that, if the new shares due to be credited in September hadnt 
been added by the time the sale instruction was received, they would be sold separately, 
and Mr S would receive a second cheque. EFSL didnt send him a second cheque.
EFSL said Mr Ss participation in the DRIP ended because he sold his shares before the 
record date which was 20 August 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the share dealing service was an execution only service so EFSL couldnt give Mr S any 
advice and there was no obligation on it to tell or remind Mr S about the record date.
Mr S didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
EFSL mis-led him. Its letter didnt mention a cut-off date.
He doesnt have a computer so couldnt look up any information. He feels discriminated 
against because of his age and his decision not to use an online service.
EFSL has kept the shares he should have received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S had to hold A shares on 20 August 2021 to be entitled to receive the dividend, or share 
equivalent, due on 29 September. He gave instructions to sell his A shares using EFSLs 
postal instruction form. In line with the terms and conditions, the shares were sold the day 
after EFSL received his instructions, 11 August 2021. Im satisfied that Mr S is not entitled to 
receive the DRIP shares due on 29 September 2021 because he didnt have a holding of A 
shares on 20 August 2021.
Mr S was given A shares in 2006. He told us he doesnt have any other investments so, 
apart from A shares, he has no knowledge or experience of shares. Its clear he didnt 
understand that there was a record date for A shares and that, if he sold before that date, he 
wouldnt receive the DRIP shares due on 29 September.
EFSL share dealing service is an execution only service. This means EFSL could not give 
Mr S any advice. And Im satisfied that, in its letter offering its service, it said Mr S should 
talk to a financial adviser if he wanted advice on what to do.
But, whilst EFSL couldnt give advice to Mr S, it was obliged to provide him with clear, fair, 
and not misleading information to enable him to make an informed decision. Mr S clearly 
misunderstood things. I need to decide whether this was because EFSL gave him unclear 
information which misled him.
There was a section in EFSLs letter headed, Planning to sell and participating in the 
Dividend Re-investment Plan (the DRIP)? which contained the information Mr S says he 
relied on. This said:
If you participate in the DRIP for the 2021 interim dividend (due to be paid in 
September) and your new shares have not been added by the time you sell your 
shares, EFSL will sell these separately for you free of charge after the DRIP 
settlement date. This means EFSL will send you two sale proceeds cheques.
But participation in the DRIP was for shareholders who held shares on the record date. I 
dont think it was an unreasonable expectation for EFSL to conclude shareholders were 
aware of this. And it wasnt EFSLs responsibility to make sure Mr S understood this. I say 
this having taken into account that EFSLs letter about its share dealing service was sent to 
a number of shareholders and it wasnt tailored specifically to Mr Ss needs. An individually 
tailored letter wasnt possible because of the execution only nature of the service  EFSL 
didnt hold any information about Mr Ss personal circumstances, including his knowledge 
and experience of share dealing. Whilst in Mr Ss circumstances, it wouldve been helpful to 
have included the record date in the letter, I dont find EFSL was required to include this 
information. And, because the way entitlement to dividends is generally known, I dont think 
EFSLs communication was misleading.
Mr S says he feels discriminated against. He says that, because of his age, he chooses to 
operate in the old fashioned way and doesnt own a computer. It is entirely his choice how 
he wants to deal with his financial affairs and how he chooses to communicate. And 
I appreciate this can sometimes be frustrating for him as increasingly a lot of information 
tends to only be available online. But EFSLs letter gave a phone number if Mr S had any 
questions or needed help. And the 2021 record date for the shares was included in As 
annual report and accounts for 2020. 
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
And I dont find EFSL treated Mr S unfairly, given it wrote to him and offered him a postal 
service. If Mr S wants a decision that EFSL has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed 
need to go to court.
Whilst, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint, I want to provide Mr S 
with a bit more information which may help him feel less dissatisfied by the outcome here.The record date is the date on which a shareholder needs to be on the share record in order 
to receive the next dividend. In this case, Mr S sold his shares before the record date, so the 
purchaser of his shares would be shown as the holder on the record date and they would 
receive the dividend. EFSL was not the purchaser of the shares, so it didnt receive the 
September dividend, or share equivalent, as he suggests.
Share prices will generally drop in the period after the record date and before the dividend is 
paid to reflect the fact that the buyer of the shares wont receive the next dividend. If Mr S 
had waited until after the record date to sell his shares, its likely that he would have received 
a lower price. As hes told us he doesnt have access to online prices, I have looked at the 
daily price of A shares around the relevant period. Mr S received £2.9026 per share when he 
sold his holding on 11 August 2021. The following days high price slightly exceeded this, but 
then from 13 August until mid-October 2021, the price was lower than what he received. 
Looking at the price over this period, I think its more likely than not that, had Mr S sold his 
shares after the record date, he wouldnt have received more than the £3,235.74 he received 
for the sale of the shares, even taking into account that hed also have been entitled to the 
DRIP shares. I hope this gives him some reassurance that, if hed known all the information 
and had decided to wait until after 20 August 2021 to give his sale instructions, he was 
unlikely to receive any more money overall and may have actually received less.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman