DRN-4296497
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain that the actions of Danske Limited trading as Danske Bank caused 
them to miss out on a favourable fixed term interest rate product for their rental property.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F had a capital and interest repayment mortgage with Danske Limited trading 
as Danske Bank (Danske), which was secured over their residential property (Property 1). 
Family circumstances meant they wanted to move house. They planned to keep and let 
Property 1 and to buy a new house to live in themselves (Property 2). In December 2021   
Mr F went through two applications with Danske by phone. The first was for consent to lease 
Property 1, which Danske told Mr F involved converting the mortgage to a consumer buy to 
let mortgage (CBTL). The second was for a new residential mortgage for Property 2.
In April 2022 Danske reminded Mr F and Mrs F their fixed term interest rate product on the 
Property 1 mortgage was coming to an end at the beginning of July. On around 30 May 2022 
Mr F approached Danske about getting a new interest rate deal and reducing the mortgage 
term. Danskes adviser said there was a two-year deal that would allow a term reduction of 
five years. But to arrange the term reduction, Mr F would have to attend an appointment with 
a Danske mortgage consultant rather than applying on-line.
The earliest suitable appointment was on 20 July 2022. By then the existing product would 
have come to an end and the Property 1 mortgage would have gone onto Danskes standard 
variable rate (SVR). But Mr F felt the benefits of changing the mortgage term outweighed the 
additional interest theyd pay in the meantime. So, he waited for the appointment.
In mid-July a Danske mortgage consultant reviewed the application Mr F and Mrs F were 
planning to make. On 19 July she contacted Mr F to let him know he and Mrs F couldnt 
change the terms of the Property 1 mortgage given it had consent to lease. And she said he 
should apply on-line for a fixed rate straight away. Mr F made an application. He secured a 
fixed rate of 2.81% over a term of two years. That was more expensive than the 2.1% he 
said he could have got in May.
Mr F and Mrs F complained. They said Danske should have told them in May they werent 
eligible for a term extension. If theyd done that, they would have re-mortgaged at a more 
favourable rate than the one they got. And Danske should reimburse their additional costs of 
borrowing.
Danske didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary:
Theyd told Mr F in December 2021 that it wouldnt be possible to make changes to 
the Property 1 mortgage once theyd given consent to lease.
Hed failed to send in details of the tenancy agreement as Danske had asked.
That meant their system hadnt updated to show the mortgage was classed as 
consent to lease and that no changes could be made to the term.
The adviser Mr F spoke to in May wasnt expected to review all the system notes for 
their account. She couldnt see the Property 1 mortgage was consent to lease from 
the information visible to her. She hadnt been wrong to arrange the appointment in 
July 2022.
Danskes mortgage consultant contacted Mr F and Mrs F on 19 July 2022 to let them 
know they couldnt make changes to the Property 1 mortgage. She advised them to 
apply on-line straight away.
Mr F and Mrs F didnt accept Danskes response. They said Danske hadnt sent any 
correspondence about the Property 1 mortgage following the December 2021 call. Mr F 
wasnt aware any information was outstanding when he rang Danske in May 2022. Danske 
hadnt chased them for an agreement. It wasnt fair to blame Mr F and Mrs Fs failure to send 
in a tenancy agreement for what had happened. Danske were to blame for them losing out 
on a more favourable fixed term interest rate product and should compensate them for their 
additional borrowing costs.
Our investigator didnt think Danske had done anything wrong. She said Danske dont allow 
changes to mortgages once a mortgage has consent to lease. Theyd told Mr F in December 
2021 hed need to send in the tenancy agreement to show he had rental income for consent 
to lease to be granted. Since he hadnt done that, Property 1 hadnt been classified on 
Danskes system as consent to lease, and the adviser he spoke to in May 2022 wasnt 
aware it was. It was reasonable for the adviser to have arranged the July 2022 appointment.
Since Mr F and Mrs F didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently 
issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, and the additional information the parties have provided 
since our investigator issued her view, Ive come to a different outcome to our investigator. 
So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further 
comments before I come to a final decision.
We expect information a lender provides to its customers to be clear, fair and not misleading 
in line with Financial Conduct Authority principles. Ive considered this complaint bearing that 
in mind.
Ive listened to the December 2021 call. Danske said theyd do a consent to lease 
application for Property 1 alongside the application for the new mortgage for Property 2. It 
would be subject to a tenancy agreement being provided. Mr F and Mrs F would be treated 
as accidental landlords. Theyd have a regulated mortgage, also known as a CBTL 
mortgage. It wouldnt be possible to make any changes to the mortgage contract such as 
shortening the term when the existing rate expired. 
The December 2021 conversation was lengthy and focused largely on the new mortgage 
application. But Ive noted Mr Fs professional background. And Id expect him to have understood at the time the consequences of the changes he and Mrs F were making to the 
Property 1 mortgage, including that theyd be unable to make any changes to its term.
However, its clear from what happened in May, hed forgotten that by then. I dont think 
thats unreasonable. Five months had gone by. And Danske failed to follow up in writing. To 
make things sufficiently clear I think Danske ought to have written to Mr F and Mrs F 
following the December 2021 call to confirm the impact of arranging consent to lease on the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage.
Mr Fs acknowledged Danske asked him to send in a tenancy agreement. But hes said they 
havent had a tenancy agreement to send since theyve been doing renovations, hes been 
living in the property from time to time and they havent rented the property out in the way 
theyd originally planned. Arguably they should have let Danske know about that. Even so, 
on balance, I dont think its fair to blame what happened on Mr F and Mrs F.
Danske have said that if the tenancy agreement had been received, and their system had 
been updated, the adviser Mr F spoke to in May 2022 would have been aware of the 
consent to lease. And she would have advised Mr F at the time to make an on-line 
application for a new interest rate product.
Given the importance of having the tenancy agreement to ensuring Danskes consent to 
lease process was completed and their records were updated, Id expect them to have 
chased it and noted their records appropriately. If they had, its likely the consent to lease 
Property 1 would have been visible to the adviser Mr F spoke to in May and she could have 
let Mr F know he couldnt extend the term when he spoke to her.
Even if Im wrong about that, the adviser ought reasonably to have done more on the May 
2022 call. I understand her role was limited. And she made clear to Mr F she couldnt offer 
advice. But Mr F told her he had two residential mortgages. Its reasonable to expect the 
adviser to have questioned him about that. If she had, I think its more likely than not Mr F 
would have told her about his and Mrs Fs intentions to let Property 1. Its reasonable to think 
she would then have checked the status of the mortgage, appreciated it was subject to 
consent to lease and that a term extension wasnt possible, and suggested Mr F apply      
on-line.
Mr F and Mrs F applied straight away for a two-year fixed rate deal once they knew 
Danskes position regarding the term extension on 19 July. They secured an interest rate of 
2.81%. I think they would have applied for a two-year fixed rate deal at the end of May if 
theyd known they couldnt extend the term. Given their application in July was successful, 
its reasonable to think an application in May would have succeeded too.
In all the circumstances I think its fair and reasonable for Danske to compensate Mr F and 
Mrs F for any additional borrowing costs theyve incurred from the end of May 2022. 
From what I currently understand:
Mr F and Mrs Fs existing fixed rate deal ended on 1 July 2022;
but for Danskes mistake, they would have taken out a two-year fixed rate product at 
the end of May effective from 1 July 2022;
they would have avoided paying interest at the SVR between 1 July and 18 July 
2022; and 
they would have paid interest at a more favourable rate than the 2.81% they secured 
over a two-year term from 19 July 2022 onwards.To put things right:
1. Danske Limited trading as Danske Bank should provide details of the two-year fixed 
interest rate products Mr F and Mrs F could have taken out if theyd applied at the 
end of May 2022 and put the rate in place with effect from 1 July 2022.
2. Mr F and Mrs F should select the product they would have applied for (the new 
product).
3. Danske Limited trading as Danske Bank should then calculate and pay Mr F and  
Mrs F
a. the difference between the interest they would have paid at the new product 
rate and the interest they did pay at the SVR from 1 July 2022 to 18 July 2022 
inclusive; and
b. the difference between the interest they would have paid at the new product 
rate and the interest they will pay at the rate of 2.81% for the period 19 July 
2022 to 1 July 2024 inclusive.
Danske Limited trading as Danske Bank should pay Mr F and Mrs F £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience theyve suffered. I think that fairly reflects the impact on them of Danskes 
mistake including the initial realisation theyd missed out on a lower rate, Danskes failure to 
take responsibility and the need for them to complain. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Danske Limited 
trading as Danske Bank to put things right on the basis Ive set out above.
Developments
Mr F and Mrs F confirmed they agreed my provisional decision.
Danske didnt agree and made several comments, which Ill summarise:
Danske dont offer CBTL mortgages but give consent to lease to existing residential 
customers who wish to let their property to paying tenants. The customer keeps their 
existing residential - regulated  mortgage with its existing terms and conditions.
Section 4.1 of Mr F and Mrs Fs mortgage deed contains a common restriction 
against letting Property 1 without consent. They are in breach of that term.
Mr F approached Danske to discuss consent to lease in December 2021. They told 
him consent to lease Property 1 was subject to providing a tenancy agreement, 
which they never received. And they said no changes would be possible to the 
Property 1 mortgage once it was subject to consent to lease.
Since Mr F and Mrs F have knowingly breached the mortgage terms, its not 
reasonable to hold Danske responsible for any loss theyve incurred.
Danske wouldnt usually write to a customer following an enquiry about consent to 
lease; theyd deal with it on the call as they did here. They consider thats 
reasonable. A property is not noted on Danskes system as consent to lease unless theyve had 
formal confirmation its been rented out and theyve consented to the letting. It would 
be inaccurate to note the system otherwise. Since Mr F and Mrs F didnt give formal 
notification or provide a tenancy agreement, Danskes system didnt mark the 
property as consent to lease. 
Therefore, in May 2022 the adviser would not have looked at Property 1 as a consent 
to lease mortgage; she would not have reviewed the notes of the December 2021 
call; its reasonable she didnt tell Mr F the term couldnt be reduced; and the 
information she gave Mr F was correct. 
Mr F and Mrs F should have issued a formal tenancy agreement when Property 1 
was let in line with the terms of the mortgage and sought consent to lease. If that had 
been done, Property 1 would have been marked consent to lease, the banks 
standard process would have been followed, and the adviser would have known the 
position and let Mr F know a change to the mortgage term wasnt possible. 
When the mortgage consultant reviewed the file in preparation for the July 2022 
meeting, they noted Mr F and Mrs F were receiving rental income. Thats how 
Danske knew the property was being rented out. It wasnt because the property was 
noted as consent to lease. 
When the mortgage consultant realised Property 1 was being let in the absence of a 
tenancy agreement or formal consent, they contacted Mr F and Mrs F straight away.
In light of Danskes comments, we asked Mr F and Mrs F to clarify the basis on which 
Property 1 had been let, if at all. Mr F explained hed been living in the property for work a 
few nights a week. Property 1 had been let on a short-term basis from time to time. The 
rental income had helped fund the upgrades Mr F wanted to make. He and Mrs F plan to let 
Property 1 in the next three to six months and to forward the tenancy agreement to Danske 
as soon as they have it.
Ive considered the parties responses and will now go on to give my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F and Mrs F feel that what happened in relation to their application for a new mortgage is 
unrelated to the events of December 2021. Danske say theres a chain of events starting 
with the December 2021 application that led to this complaint.
I think its fair to consider what happened from the December 2021 application onwards 
since the events are closely connected. I approached things on that basis in my provisional 
decision. Ive thought carefully about whether the additional information the parties have now 
provided changes my mind about how this complaint should be resolved on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
I note Mr F and Mrs F have been letting Property 1 without consent to lease. Im not aware if 
Danske were previously aware of that or whether they have taken any steps to address 
things with Mr F and Mrs F. But Mr F and Mrs F will need to ensure they are no longer in 
breach of the mortgage terms and seek appropriate consent going forward.However, despite Mr F and Mrs Fs apparent breach of the mortgage terms and conditions, 
Im not persuaded to change my mind about the outcome of this complaint as Ill explain.
The information Danske gave Mr F on the December 2021 call and the explanation theyve 
now provided are contradictory. Danske told Mr F on the December 2021 call that he and 
Mrs Fs application for consent to lease would mean theyd have a CBTL mortgage on 
Property 1; theyve now explained it wouldnt have been a CBTL mortgage, the existing 
terms and conditions of the mortgage remained the same and consent to lease would only 
be given once a tenancy agreement had been approved. If thats the case, its unclear why a 
change to the term couldnt have been made if consent to lease hadnt been agreed.
Ive acknowledged Danske told Mr F on the December 2021 call that changes to the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage wouldnt be possible and hed need to send the tenancy 
agreement in. If the restrictions on changing the terms of the mortgage came into effect 
straight away  whether or not formal consent to lease had been provided - Danske ought to 
have made that clear at the time. 
In any event, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Danske ought reasonably to 
have written to Mr F and Mrs F following the December 2021 call to explain the correct 
position even if that isnt their usual process. And they should have noted the position on   
Mr F and Mrs Fs records. Even if it wouldnt have been accurate to record that consent to 
lease had been given until it had, the records could have reflected Mr F and Mrs F were 
planning to let Property 1. If they had, the adviser could have let Mr F know they couldnt 
change the term when he rang in May 2022. 
I still think the adviser should have done more on the call. Even if the adviser couldnt have 
established from Danskes records Property 1 was subject to consent to lease until formal 
consent had been given, she ought reasonably to have found out Mr F and Mrs F planned to 
let Property 1. If, as it seems, restrictions on making changes to the mortgage term applied 
in those circumstances, she could have let Mr F know at the time. If that had happened, Mr F 
and Mrs F could have applied for a new rate in May 2022.
Bearing the above in mind, Im not persuaded to change my outcome. And for all the 
reasons Ive set out, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I see no reason to change my mind about how to put things right on the basis I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint.
To put things right:
1. Danske Limited trading as Danske Bank should provide details of the two-year fixed 
interest rate products Mr F and Mrs F could have taken out if theyd applied at the 
end of May 2022 and put the rate in place with effect from 1 July 2022.
2. Mr F and Mrs F should select the product they would have applied for (the new 
product).
3. Danske Limited trading as Danske Bank should then calculate and pay Mr F and  
Mrs Fa. the difference between the interest they would have paid at the new product 
rate and the interest they did pay at the SVR from 1 July 2022 to 18 July 2022 
inclusive; and
b. the difference between the interest they would have paid at the new product 
rate and the interest they will pay at the rate of 2.81% for the period 19 July 
2022 to 1 July 2024 inclusive.
Danske Limited trading as Danske Bank should pay Mr F and Mrs F £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience theyve suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman