DRN-3941725
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy as he feels that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold an income protection policy to 
him.
What happened
Mr A was sold an income protection policy, by HSBC, in May 2005. The policy began in 
August 2005, and was to run until 2027, when Mr A turned 60. 
The policy provided was designed to provide Mr A with a monthly benefit, until the policys 
end date, should he become incapacitated. The monthly benefit, and the premium payable 
for the policy were index-linked. So, both the monthly benefit, and the premium increased 
each year.
Mr A has explained that in May 2021, he was unwell, and unable to work as a result. So, he 
contacted his insurer to make a claim under the income protection policy. 
The claim was accepted by Mr As insurer. But the monthly benefit amount provided to Mr A 
wasnt the amount he had anticipated. Mr A has said he anticipated a monthly benefit of 
£2,376.40. But was instead informed by the insurer that the benefit would be around £160 a 
month.
The reason it would be much lower than Mr A anticipated was because the monthly benefit 
was less any other income he was receiving  such as any pension payments or benefits 
from other income protection plans. Mr A had income from an ill health pension plan, 
meaning this was taken into account when benefit calculations were made.
Mr A has said he wasnt told of the above limitations when the income protection policy was 
sold to him by HSBC. And that he had informed HSBC of the ill health benefits he had from 
his employer when he applied for the policy. So, these should have been taken into account 
by HSBC. 
In addition, Mr A was concerned that his policy ended at the point he was 60. He felt 
incorrect advice had been given here too  because this end point wasnt in line with the 
normal pensionable age for people in his occupation  which was actually 67. 
As Mr A was unhappy about how the policy was sold to him, he raised a complaint with 
HSBC. HSBC looked into the matter, and asked Mr A, and the insurer, to provide it with any 
documentation relating to the policy. This was because of the length of time since the policy 
was sold meant HSBC no longer held documents relating to this. Because it didnt receive 
this information, HSBC said it couldnt provide any response as to whether the policy was 
mis-sold.
Following the involvement of this service, HSBC did receive some documentation. HSBC 
then said that it appeared Mr A would have been entitled to six months full pay, and then six 
months half pay if he was unwell, and away from work. So, the deferred period for the policy 
was correctly set at the 12-month point. HSBC said that based on the limited documentation, 
it couldnt see the policy had been mis-sold to Mr A. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said the 
declaration Mr A signed at the point of sale clearly laid out the benefit limitations. Our 
investigator also said that Mr As application form noted he wanted cover until he was 60. 
And listed his employment benefits, but no mention was made of an ill-health pension. And 
the policy sold through HSBC was provided in line with this information. So, they didnt think 
HSBC knew of this when they sold the policy. And they didnt think the policy was unsuitable 
or mis-sold to Mr A.
Mr A didnt agree. So his complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. This is because Im not 
persuaded that the income protection policy was mis-sold to Mr A. 
Mr A says his policy was mis-sold to him in 2005. A significant time has passed since then, 
so there is a limited information available on the sale. With this in mind, Ive needed to come 
to my decision based on the information I do have, and what is more likely than not in the 
circumstances.
I think its likely the sale of the policy was an advised sale. Although I havent seen any 
specific documentation recommending the policy to Mr A, Ive seen a copy of some initial 
quotation paperwork for the policy. On this, there is mention of a financial advisor  and 
paying commission to them, as well as a handwritten annotation that mentions a financial 
advisor. Given this, Ive considered this complaint as if the policy was sold on an advised 
basis. There is a higher standard required of those providing advice when selling a policy, as 
opposed to non-advised sales. So, this gives Mr A the benefit of the doubt that the higher 
standard applies in his case. 
Considering the sale as an advised one means that HSBC needed to ensure the advice it 
provided was suitable, when recommending a policy to Mr A. And it also needed to ensure 
that Mr A had enough information to ensure the policy was right for him. There are two key 
areas which Mr A feels the policy provided to him was unsuitable. So, Ive dealt with these 
separately.
Monthly benefit limitation 
The monthly benefit under Mr As income protection policy does take into account any 
additional income Mr A is receiving. So, Mr As monthly benefit decreases, the more 
additional income he is receiving. 
Mr A said he wasnt advised that the monthly benefit limit under the policy would take into 
account additional sources of income, when he should have been told this. And he feels this 
made the policy unsuitable for him.
I dont know exactly what was discussed at the point of sale, given the passage of time, and 
the lack of evidence in respect of this. But I have seen a copy of the initial application form 
completed for Mr A, which I think most likely reflects the discussions had. The initial application runs through a series of questions, including about any other benefits 
Mr A had, which may respond when he was sick. The following questions, and responses 
are detailed:
15. If you were unable to work, would you continue to receive any income from your work or 
employment? 
Yes/No. 
If yes please give details: 6 mnths full 6 mnths half pay.
16. Do you have already have income protection, accident or sickness cover, or mortgage or 
loan repayment protection?
Yes/No?
The answer no was ticked for question 16. 
There is handwritten asterix, next to question 15, with the following annotation written and 
then crossed out:
Please note that question 15 is completed by the financial advisor. Do you recommend that 
I should approach my employer to confirm?
I havent seen any evidence to show that the details of Mr As sick pay were incorrect. And 
Im aware the deferred period was set for 12 months. So, the policy was sold on the basis 
that Mr A wouldnt need the income protection policy until after his sick pay from his 
employer was exhausted, which is what Id expect to see. So, I dont think HSBC did 
anything wrong here.
As above, there isnt mention of any other benefit Mr A would be in receipt of  such as an 
ill-health pension. If this had been discussed, I think it most likely the form would say this. 
Ive taken into account the handwritten note next to question 15. But it doesnt change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. The comment is written next to question 15 
and Mr A accurately disclosed the income he received as sick pay. I also bear in mind that 
the query was crossed out, which suggests its most likely the matter was resolved. And, in 
any event, it was for Mr A to ensure the information provided was correct and accurate. So, 
when Mr A checked and signed the document, I would have expected him to raise if 
something was missing. Given there was no mention of this, I dont find HSBC acted unfairly 
in basing its recommendation solely on the information its clear it knew about.
Ive also seen the declaration form Mr A signed when the product was told. There is a 
passage in this which says:
I understand that the monthly income benefit or cover proposed for under this application, 
together with any other income payable during incapacity including benefits under any other 
policies with (insurer) or elsewhere, must not exceed 55% of my annual taxable earnings 
(profit) up to £50,000 per annum, plus 35% thereafter. I also understand that at the time of a 
claim, the amount payable will be assessed on my earnings in the previous 12 month period, 
less any income I receive during the period of my incapacity and that, using the above 
percentages the amount payable may be less than the maximum benefit or cover shown in 
the policy.I think this makes it clear that other income may reduce the maximum monthly benefit under 
the policy. So, when recommending the policy to Mr A, I think HSBC made it sufficiently 
clear there were limitations which applied to the payment of benefit under the policy. 
Lastly, from looking at Mr As ill health policy, there are two tiers of benefit. To qualify for the 
lower tier, Mr As ill health must prevent him from doing his own or comparable job, and the 
ill health has to be likely to continue until the schemes pension age. And to qualify for the 
upper tier, Mr A had to also show he was incapable or doing almost any type of job. 
Mr As income protection policy had a different requirement  he didnt have to show that his 
ill health would likely continue to pension age. Instead, it required Mr A to show it wasnt able 
to carry out the material and substantial duties of his role, to gain a benefit under the policy. 
This means there would most likely be occasions where Mr As income protection policy 
would likely become payable, where the pension policy wouldnt. And, based on what Ive 
seen, Mr A still would receive a benefit from the policy  although not as high as he 
expected. So, Ive not seen anything that suggests the policy was unsuitable for Mr A. 
Given the above, I dont find HSBC did anything wrong in relation to the maximum benefit 
amount payable under the policy, when it recommended the policy to Mr A. 
Policy end date
Mr A has raised concerns about the date for the policys end. This being when Mr A is 60 
years old. But Ive reviewed the application form completed. And the following is asked:
At what age do you want cover to cease? 
Cover must cease between the ages of 50 and 65 years inclusive.
The handwritten answer provided details 60 years.
As the answer specifies 60 years old, I think its most likely this was discussed with Mr A, 
and this is what he noted he wanted. I cant see any reason why this would be unsuitable for 
Mr A. It may be preferable to have cover for additional years  until retirement age. But I 
dont think a shorter date makes the policy unsuitable, given it still provided roughly 22 years 
worth of cover. 
Given the above, I dont find there is sufficient evidence to persuade me that Mr A was mis-
sold the income protection policy he was provided with. So, Im satisfied HSBC didnt do 
anything wrong in this respect. 
Ongoing obligation to check suitability
Mr A has raised that there was an ongoing responsibility for the suitability of his policy to be 
checked each year. Ive thought about this point. But I dont find HSBC acted unfairly. I 
havent seen anything to suggest HSBC was responsible for providing Mr A with 
independent financial advice every year or to review Mr As needs each year. So, I dont 
think it had an ongoing duty in this respect. It would be for Mr A, and any other independent 
financial advisor he had to conduct a review of his products from suitability. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything differently in respect of this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman