DRN-4003846
The complaint
Miss L complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly
agreed a loan for her.
What happened
EDL agreed a loan of £3,000 for Miss L in March 2018. The total amount owed was £10,351
to be repaid at £288 a month over 36 months (all figures rounded).
Miss L made eight payments amounting to £2,228 until a direct debit payment was returned
in November 2018. EDL confirmed that it hasnt received any further payments from Miss L
and that an amount of £4,861 was passed to a third party debt collector in May 2019.
Miss L complained to EDL that she was in a vulnerable position at the time and it should not
have agreed to lend to her. She said that she wasnt in the correct frame of mind to make
financial decisions, the loan put a massive strain on her financially and emotionally and she
fell behind on her rent while trying to keep up with the payments. I understand that Miss L
now has a diagnosis of two mental health conditions.
EDL didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. It said that it carried out a reasonable and
proportionate affordability check before lending to her and it found that the loan would be
sustainable over the term as Miss L had sufficient disposable income to meet her
repayments. EDL also said that there was no evidence to show that it should have been
aware of her mental health issues at the time or declined to lend to her on that basis.
Miss L referred her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt
recommended that it be upheld. They concluded that EDL would have found the loan to be
affordable had it looked into Miss Ls circumstances further before lending to her. They also
found that EDL couldnt have reasonably known that Miss Ls mental health would
deteriorate.
Miss L didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to review and resolve. I sent out a provisional decision on 31 January 
explaining why I thought Miss Ls complaint should succeed. Both parties agreed with my 
provisional findings. This is my final decision which will be legally binding once accepted by 
Miss L. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agreed with my provisional conclusions and I have no new information or 
comment to consider. I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions and will set 
out again my reasons for upholding Miss Ls complaint in this final decision on the matter. 
As before, when making my decision Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance 
on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, 
such as EDL, need to abide by. EDL will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of 
lending is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will 
summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, EDL needed to check that Miss L could afford to
meet her repayments sustainably, in other words out of her usual means for the term of the
loan, without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of
the credit (the amount borrowed, for example) and to Miss Ls particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that EDL needed to pay due regard to Miss Ls interests
and treat her fairly.
The questions Ive considered include whether or not EDL carried out a proportionate
affordability check before lending to Miss L? If not, what would a proportionate check have
shown? Did EDL treat Miss L fairly and with due regard to her interests when it offered the
loan? Did it take into consideration Miss Ls personal circumstances and how these might
impact on her ability to manage her loan?
Let me begin by saying that I am very sorry to hear of Miss Ls loss and the difficult
circumstances surrounding it.
Miss L shared with us and EDL that shed lost her daughter two months prior to taking out
the loan, which was to pay for funeral costs. EDLs customer notes state that Miss L wasnt
on the voter register due to her circumstances and that she had disclosed sensitive
information that it didnt record. Miss L told us that her daughter lost her life in her family
home and her death was being investigated as a criminal act by the police. Her
granddaughter had come to live with her and was unable to access her home.
Miss L said that in July 2018 she became extremely unstable with her mental health. She
told EDL in early November 2018 that she was on long term sick leave and didnt have the
money to meet her repayments. She provided EDL with a Debt and Mental Health form from
her doctor. EDL put her account on hold for a month. Miss L explained to EDL on a call in
December that she had been unable to work since the trial which had taken place in July.
She was in receipt of statutory sick pay, unable to pay her rent and priority bills, and was
applying for universal credit and personal independence payments. Miss L asked for her
account to be put on hold until after the anniversary of her daughters death and EDL
agreed. EDL made many unsuccessful attempts to contact Miss L from February 2019 and
her account was eventually passed to a third party debt collector in May.
Ive started my review by looking into how EDL carried out its affordability assessment. EDL
provided copies of the credit file information, payslips and bank statements it relied on to
make its lending decision. The credit file information shows that Miss L had a recent existing 
loan of £1,000, was almost up to her credit card limit of £2,600 and had an overdraft of
£2,270. She didnt have any adverse information recorded about her existing accounts.
EDL estimated Miss Ls monthly income as £2,466. She gave her rent as £500 and EDL
estimated that Miss Ls living costs were £863 (based on data from the Office of National
Statistics) and recorded her ongoing monthly financial commitments as £292. EDL
considered that this left Miss L with over £800 of disposable income to cover her loan
repayments of £288 along with any other unaccounted for expenses, and concluded that the
loan was affordable for her.
The payslip EDL relied on was from the week before and showed that Miss L was on an
hourly rate and was paid £297 a week. The bank statements EDL saw covered a month from27 January to 27 February 2018 and show Miss Ls weekly wage deposits and a monthly
deposit mid-February of £2,254. EDL worked out Miss Ls average monthly wage of £2,466
from the year to date figures shown on the payslip. It seems to me that EDL knew Miss Ls
income was made up of a base wage and variable commission.
The regulations state that a lender should be careful not to presume that supplementary
income, being received at the time the assessment is being undertaken, will continue to be
received in perpetuity or received at the same level. The examples given in the regulations
include performance-related bonuses and overtime.
I appreciate that in this case, EDL took into account Miss Ls payment history over the year
to date when factoring in her performance-related pay. And in other circumstances I might
consider that the checks EDL carried out were reasonable and proportionate. However, EDL
knew that Miss L had recently been bereaved in very difficult circumstances and that a
criminal investigation was taking place. The regulator considers a vulnerable consumer to be
someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to detriment.1
Examples of risk factors for vulnerability include bereavement and income volatility.
It seems to me that EDL considered that Miss L was vulnerable as the customer notes state
that this was a very difficult interview to be involved with and Miss Ls file was flagged as
having been treated with care at a difficult time. I think there was a clear risk that Miss Ls
circumstances could have an adverse impact on her income and that she might not be able
to meet her repayments for the loan, given the proportion of her income which was
performance-related. I dont think EDL took this into consideration when assessing the
sustainability of the loan for Miss L and it should have taken further steps to understand her
means before lending to her.
Miss L explained to us that her commission was paid monthly in arrears and because it was
payable on delivery of goods there could be a lag of several months before this would be
paid. She provided us with her bank statements covering November 2017 to May 2018
which show she was paid £841 commission in March, the day she took out the loan, and
£651 in April. This level of reduction in income meant that the loan repayments were not
affordable for Miss L. I think that some level of income shock was foreseeable and I think 
EDL would have confirmed this had it carried out a proportionate check. Ive concluded
that EDL treated Miss L unfairly and without regard to her interests by lending to her on this
occasion.
I have also considered what Miss L told us about her ability to make financial decisions at
that time. Miss L said that shed explained her circumstances to EDL, that she was
distressed in the office and unable to fully understand the loan process or what she was
expected to repay. She told us that she was in shock and suffering from the trauma of her
experience. EDLs customer notes state that Miss L was very upset at the time and, as
mentioned, that it was a very difficult application interview.
Miss L shared with us that she has since been diagnosed with two health conditions. She
also told us in late 2022 that her mental health had declined in recent months and she has
been unable to tackle day to day living let alone anything beyond that, in other words
financial matters. Let me say at this point that I do not in any way doubt what Miss L has told
us about her mental health at the time or later. Miss L has been consistent in what shes told
EDL and this service about these matters and about her financial situation.
1 FCA Occasional Paper No.8 published February 2015: https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/occasional-
papers/occasional-paper-no-8-consumer-vulnerabilityIn its final response to Miss Ls complaint EDL said that it found no evidence that the branch
should have been aware of Miss Ls mental health issues. It also said that, as per the
regulations, it shouldnt refuse to lend to someone on the basis that they had a mental health
condition. It needed to assume that customers had the mental capacity to make decisions
unless it knows, is told or reasonably suspects that a customer lacks capacity.
The fact that Miss L was suffering at the time with later diagnosed conditions doesnt
automatically lead me to find that she wasnt capable of making a responsible borrowing
decision. And I havent seen enough in the information I have about Miss Ls finances to 
show that her mental health conditions were impacting on her ability to make decisions 
about her finances. However, as Ive explained above, I am upholding Miss Ls complaint for 
other reasons and Ive set out below what EDL needs to do now to put things right for her.
Putting things right
I understand that Miss L has repaid £2,228 of her £3,000 loan. I havent found that she was
constrained in her ability to make a responsible borrowing decision at that time and I dont
know enough about her current circumstances to consider that there is no reasonable
prospect of EDL recovering this debt. Ive concluded that its fair that Miss L repays the 
capital she borrowed as shes had the use of this but I dont think she should pay any 
interest or charges on this loan, which Ive found to have been irresponsible given.
In summary EDL should:
Cap the amount Miss L needs to repay at £3,000; and
Consider all payments, including fees, Miss L made as payments towards this capital 
amount; and
oIf Miss L has paid more than this then EDL needs to refund these 
overpayments to her along with 8% simple interest per annum* from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement of this complaint. In this case EDL needs 
to remove any negative information about this loan from Miss Ls credit file up 
to the point of settlement of the complaint; or
oIf in the event that Miss L has not yet repaid the capital, which I understand to 
be the case, then EDL needs to treat Miss L fairly and with forbearance and 
due consideration regarding her outstanding capital balance. This may mean 
coming to an affordable repayment plan with her. Once the loan capital has 
been repaid, then EDL should remove any negative information about this 
loan from Miss Ls credit file.
As EDL has since sold the debt, it needs to either buy it back or liaise with the current debt
owner to ensure Miss L isnt liable for more than the capital she borrowed.
*HMRC requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must give Miss L a certificate
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ls complaint against Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday 
Loans for the reasons Ive explained above and require it to take the steps Ive outlined to 
put things right for her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman