DRN-2746784
The complaint
Mr Ws complained that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (Brazier) havent kept him updated 
on the progress of his claims to recover mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr W instructed Brazier to act for him in trying to recover PPI payments he 
made to a number of financial institutions.  He signed a letter of authority in July 2019.  
Brazier have since submitted claims to several institutions on his behalf.
In 2020, Mr W complained to Brazier that theyd not been keeping him informed about the 
progress of his claims and he didnt know what was happening.  Brazier replied, explaining 
that, as a result of the Covid 19 pandemic, many financial institutions had either stopped 
work on claims, or had substantially reduced the number of their staff dealing with them.  
They said theyd tried to keep him up to date by calling him, as well as via text and email. 
And they confirmed that they were still waiting for replies from the institutions  which was 
why Mr W hadnt received any payment.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Braziers reply and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator 
looked into it and at first said Brazier had regularly contacted Mr W, except for a period 
between January and November 2020.  
He initially said Brazier should compensate Mr W for this.  But Brazier replied, saying that 
theyd not been working due to the pandemic and had only reopened their business in 
November 2020  when theyd contacted Mr W.  And they provided the investigator with 
records of emails they sent to their clients advising them theyd be closing during the 
pandemic.  
The new information led our investigator change his view and say he didnt think Brazier 
shouldve done anything differently.  Mr W didnt agree with that view.  So Ive been asked to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand its frustrating for Mr W not to know whats going on with his claims.  Id expect 
Brazier to keep him updated as theyre progressed.
And Ive seen that Brazier have done that.  Their records show Brazier tried to contact Mr W 
regularly through 2019 using a variety of methods.  So Im satisfied that they did what they 
shouldve done at that time.  And information Brazier sent in response to our investigators 
view of the complaint shows that they last updated Mr W in mid-February 2020.
Its true that Brazier didnt contact Mr W between February and November 2020.  In normal 
circumstances, Id say they should have done.  But the outbreak of Covid 19 in early 2020 
created an unprecedented situation for businesses.  And it wouldnt be fair in that situation 
for me to apply our usual expectations to Brazier.
Even in those circumstances, I dont think it would have been reasonable for Brazier just to 
stop contacting Mr W.  But they didnt do that.  Ive seen they sent him an email confirming 
that, in line with government regulations, theyd be closing their business and postponing 
claims handling until the pandemic was over.
Im satisfied from this that they told Mr W what would happen.  Brazier have confirmed they 
reopened their office at the start of November.  I can see they contacted Mr W then and 
have done so since.  And theyve explained that many financial institutions delayed dealing 
with PPI claims during the pandemic.  So it might take longer than usual to conclude Mr Ws 
claims.
Now that theyve reopened their business, Id expect Brazier to keep Mr W updated on the 
progress of his claims.  But I dont think its reasonable to say they should have done 
anything differently in the period Mr W brought his complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Brazier Consulting 
Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman