DRN-3967443
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how ReAssure Limited have administered their whole of life 
policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 1989 Mr and Mrs B took out a whole of life policy with a predecessor business to 
ReAssure. The policy was taken out on a joint death basis paying out on both first and 
second death. This means that both Mr and Mrs B are covered under the policy.   
In late 2019 ReAssure conducted a review of the policy and provided further documents to 
Mr and Mrs B in early 2020. However these documents show the policy as paying out on a 
first death only basis and not a joint death basis. 
Since that time Mr and Mrs B have been trying to get a correct review letter showing the 
options moving forward and confirming that the policy is on a joint death basis. 
Understandably they do not want to make any decisions about the policy until it is confirmed 
that the review is on a joint death basis as this how the policy should work.  
On several occasions in other correspondence ReAssure has said the policy is on a joint 
death basis however the review documentation doesnt reflect this. Mr and Mrs B want to 
see a correct review letter and also have ReAssure provide quotations for alternative types 
of cover. 
Our Investigator asked ReAssure to provide a correct review however again the information 
shows a first death basis which is incorrect. 
Mr and Mrs B have also asked for term assurance quotations so they can decide the best 
way forward for them. They have asked for term assurance quotations on both lives 
individually and also a joint death basis. ReAssure have provided a quotation for Mrs B and 
have requested some further information for Mr B. ReAssure have also said they dont offer 
a term assurance policy on a joint death basis so that quotation will be on a first death basis. 
This issue has been going on for some time now. Our Investigator thought ReAssure should 
pay Mr and Mrs B £300 for the inconvenience caused which I agree is fair.  
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should:
- Provide correct 2019 policy review information on a joint death basis
- Provide a term assurance quotation (if possible) for Mr B up to age 67
- Pay Mr and Mrs B £300 for the inconvenience caused by the problem
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
ReAssure Limited should take the actions Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman