DRN-4310565
The complaint
Mr R complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
AvantCredit lent Mr R a loan in April 2016, the loan was for £2,000 with 24 monthly 
instalments of around £113. The highest monthly instalment was £113.45. The total amount 
repayable was £2,722.57.
AvantCredit didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint so he referred it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. One of our adjudicators looked at what both parties said and thought although 
AvantCredits checks went far enough, it didnt react appropriately to the results of its 
checks. She thought AvantCredit shouldnt have lent to Mr R and recommended that the 
complaint be upheld.
AvantCredit disagreed, it said its checks show Mr R could afford the loan repayments and it 
wasnt wrong to lend. It asked for an ombudsman to decide on the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high-cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
AvantCredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr R could repay the loan without suffering financial detriment over the term, this 
includes Mr R being able to repay the loan without the need to borrow further. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.  
I think AvantCredits checks went far enough, it checked Mr Rs monthly income and 
expenditure, searched his credit file and assessed his bank statements from February 2016 
to April 2016.
In my opinion the results of those checks should have concerned AvantCredit. This was 
Mr Rs first loan with AvantCredit but it was a loan that he was committing to repay over the 
next two years. The checks showed Mr Rs income was around £1,200 a month, Mr R 
declared his living costs as £270 which included costs of housing, car and other. The credit 
file showed Mr R had five defaults in 2013, four of these were still active at the time of the 
loan and Mr R was continuing to repay the balances on these four accounts. Mr R had an 
active short term loan account, an overdraft and a credit card account which hed used a 
substantial amount of the limit.
The loan was for home improvement and so it was increasing Mr Rs debt burden. The 
checks showed Mr R was regularly borrowing and repaying the short-term lender, an 
account hed opened since 2013. My understanding of this short-term account is that Mr R 
has a limit he can use on the account, and this is usually repaid at the end of the month in 
full. For the months of February, March and April 2016, Mr R was either borrowing or 
repaying this loan account, in February 2016, he repaid over £1,000, he borrowed around 
£860 in March and repaid £900 in April. 
Mr R had some gambling transactions which although I dont think were significant, Ive 
addressed because AvantCredit has referred to the winning Mr R had as the reason for his 
higher spend. AvantCredit will know that winnings from gambling in these circumstances 
isnt regular income and it wouldnt be reasonable to consider that as income for Mr R over 
the two-year term of this loan. It is also important to say despite the winnings, Mr R 
continued to borrow from the short-term loan account.
I think this was regular credit line Mr R relied on and he was paying significant sums of his 
income towards this. Mr R was also in a debt management plan for his defaulted accounts 
and was paying £50 towards those, he was using his credit card and his overdraft. 
Mr Rs bank statements show he was incurring fees for the overdraft and had direct debit 
payments returned due to lack of funds.
The overall picture of Mr Rs finances in my opinion doesnt suggest he could keep up with 
the repayments over two years without borrowing further, particularly when you consider his 
income. Ive thought carefully about AvantCredits response to the adjudicators view but as I 
stated above, the short-term credit wasnt a loan he took out, repaid and closed. It was an 
account that he had access to and had demonstrated reliance on from the bank statements 
AvantCredit saw.
There were enough concerns about Mr Rs finances that I dont think AvantCredit should 
have lent to him in the circumstances. AvantCredit needs to put things right.
Putting things right  what AvantCredit needs to do.
Refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on the loan.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges above from 
the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman