DRN-3763672
The complaint
Mr P complains that QIC Europe Limited declined his claim on his motor insurance policy 
following the theft of his motor bike. He wants QIC to pay the claim and compensate him for 
his alternative transport costs. Mr P is represented in this matter by his partner, Ms C. 
What happened
Mr Ps bike was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. QIC declined the claim because it 
said the bike hadnt been stored in a garage as required by the policy. Mr P said the bike 
was kept in a secured communal garage. He said QIC hadnt defined garage in the policy 
and so it was unfair to rely on this reason to decline the claim. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. QIC said it hadnt 
defined garage in the policys terms and conditions provided to Mr P. But the Investigator 
thought Mr P understood what this meant and that it differed from a communal parking 
facility. He thought the policy schedule required the bike to be kept in a garage, and garage 
is defined in the policy and so he thought the term was clear. And so he thought QIC had 
fairly applied the definition of a garage to decline the claim. 
Ms C replied that Mr P had chosen locked garage as the best description of where the bike 
was parked overnight. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to QIC on 16 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mr P and Ms C felt frustrated by QICs decision to decline the claim. 
They explained that this has had a significant financial impact as they cant afford to replace 
the bike without a settlement and rely on other transport to get to work. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
QIC said it had declined the claim because Mr P hadnt kept the bike stored overnight in a 
garage as required by his policy. I could see that in QICs policy booklet garage is defined 
as: 
a permanent enclosed four-sided structure comprising of three brick, stone, steel or 
concrete built sides with a roof and a securable door entrance which is your private property 
(i.e. not a communal parking facility).
But QICs agent didnt send Mr P QICs policy booklet, but its own version that was approved 
by QIC. So I was satisfied that QIC didnt send its terms and conditions to Mr P to define 
what it considered to be a garage, as it had claimed. And I couldnt see that garage is 
defined in the agents policy booklet.
However, I didnt think this meant that QIC couldnt rely on the garaging term to decline the 
claim. This was because I thought the requirement was clearly stated elsewhere in the policy 
documents and I thought Mr P understood this requirement. I explained why I thought this.
Mr P said that when he applied for quotes online he was given only three options for where 
the bike was to be stored overnight  garaged, on road or on driveway. But I thought Mr Ps 
recollection was incorrect. In a call to QICs claim handler following the theft, Mr P confirmed 
that the bike was kept in a secure carpark and he said he had been careful not to put in that 
it was a garage. So I thought Mr P must have been aware that there were more than three 
options available to him to choose between.
QIC had lately provided us with the online journey Mr P made when he sought a quote for 
cover and bought his policy. I could see from this that Mr P applied for cover through an 
online comparison site for motorcycle insurance. He was asked what the bikes overnight 
storage was. And he was given six options, including garage and locked compound. 
Definitions were provided in a pop up box if Mr P required clarification:
Locked garage  a locked structure for housing motor vehicles such as cars or motorbikes. It 
should be constructed of brick, concrete, steel or stone and on private property. This should 
be a garage used only for you and people living with you, not a shared garage for multiple 
residences.
Locked compound  A secure site, fenced all the way round and gated, with access only 
available to key or code holders.
I thought these were clear definitions that were made available to Mr P. Mr Ps bike was kept 
overnight in a shared car park that was secured, not a locked garage. But Mr P selected 
locked garage and then he was directed to a brokers site and he went on to buy a policy 
with QIC. 
Mr P had obtained seven quotes in all from the comparison site, and some of these quotes 
were for locked compound. So I thought Mr P reasonably understood what was meant by a 
garage and that this was different to the shared parking facility at his home.  
The broker then sent Mr P his policy documents. The Statement of Fact asked:
Will the vehicle(s) be kept in a locked garage or out building over night?
And the answer given was Yes. 
The Motorcycle Policy Schedule included an endorsement titled Garaging Warranty that 
said, amongst other things:
5. Loss of or damage to the vehicle is excluded whilst it is parked at the insured's place of 
residence and/or the declared garaging address unless the motorcycle is kept in a properly 
constructed and locked garage.
So I thought the garaging requirement was clearly defined when Mr P took out his policy. I 
thought It was also made clear in the policy documents that cover was excluded when the 
requirement wasnt met. I thought Mr P understood what the requirement was when he took 
out his policy. But he incorrectly stated that the bike would be kept overnight in a locked 
garage rather than in a locked compound. And so I thought it was fair and reasonable for 
QIC to rely on the exclusion to decline Mr Ps claim. And I didnt think it was responsible for 
Mr Ps subsequent losses. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or QIC, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C replied that she agreed that Mr P had been provided with six options for overnight 
storage on the comparison site. But she said that when he was transferred to the brokers 
site, he was given only three options. And he chose garaged as that was what was stated 
on their tenancy agreement. 
Ms C also said Mr P had chosen road on the comparison site. Ms C said I was incorrect in 
stating that Mr P had chosen locked garage on the brokers site as this option wasnt 
available. She said he had chosen garaged as the closest option. 
But Im satisfied that this isnt supported by the online journey provided by QIC which has 
now been shared with Ms C. I think this shows that Mr P chose locked garage on the 
comparison sire even though he had also looked for a quote for locked compound. I can 
see that this choice was significantly more expensive. 
So I think Mr P was aware of what would be defined as a garage, and this wouldnt cover his 
overnight storage arrangement. And when Mr P was transferred to the brokers site, I think 
he should have sought advice if he was unsure of the correct option to choose. But he didnt 
do this and chose garaged, which was incorrect.
So I remain satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for QIC to rely on the policy exclusion to 
decline Mr Ps claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman