DRN-3289703
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about delays, poor service and misinformation when they tried to 
port their mortgage with The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform. Mr M has dealt with 
the complaint. He asks that Platform refunds the early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Platform. They wanted to move house and contacted 
Platform in October 2020 about porting their mortgage. Mr M says they were initially told 
their application would take six to eight weeks. They were then told it would take 12 weeks. 
They say they were told no ERC would be charged and on this basis they applied 
elsewhere. However, when they repaid their mortgage Platform applied an ERC. Mr M says 
their complaints about Platform are:
its 12-week application processing time was too long
numerous call backs were promised and not made
it didnt add their solicitor to its panel
it didnt refund the ERC, despite saying none was payable
it didnt respond to their complaint within eight weeks
Our investigator said Platforms timescales werent unreasonable in the circumstances. He 
said it was entitled to apply the ERC, which it confirmed on a call, and to decide whether to 
add a solicitor to its panel. But its service could have been better. The investigator said 
Platform should pay £125 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said Platform provided written confirmation that no ERC 
was payable. He said while he was told during calls that an ERC was payable, given the 
number of errors Platform had made he preferred to rely on the written confirmation. Mr M 
said theyd have stayed with Platform if theyd been given correct information as they 
couldnt afford the £7,000 ERC. They had to increase the amount they borrowed to cover it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M took out a fixed interest rate product in 2019. This included an ERC which 
was payable if the mortgage was repaid before February 2022. Mr and Mrs M agreed to this 
when they took out the product.
Mr and Mrs M repaid the mortgage during the product term and Platform applied the ERC, 
as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. Mr M says its unfair for 
Platform to apply the ERC. He says it told him that no ERC was payable. He says by the 
time the error was corrected hed cancelled his porting application. Mr M says Platforms 
timescales put his sale and purchase chain at risk.
Did Platform mislead Mr and Mrs M about the ERC?
Mr M raised a complaint with Platform on 30 November 2020. In mid-December 2020 Mr M 
asked Platforms complaint handler for confirmation his mortgage would complete by 6 
January 2021. He said he could get a mortgage in place with another lender, which was an 
absolute fallback if his fears that Platform couldnt get the mortgage in place by 6 January 
2021 were realised. He asked Platform to agree not to charge an ERC if this happened. 
Platform responded by email on 16 December 2020. It said, as explained in your mortgage 
offer, since 1 May 2019 you have not had to pay an early redemption charge. Mr M replied 
to this email the same day saying hed called that day and been told an ERC was payable. 
However, he said he intended to proceed on the basis that the email from the complaints 
team was confirmation that Platform wouldnt charge the ERC.
Mr M hasnt said that he wasnt told about the ERC. In fact, he says that he was. However, 
he says due to other errors he says were made by Platform, he decided to rely on the written 
confirmation in the 16 December 2020 email that there was no ERC. 
I think Mr and Mrs M were aware that the ERC was payable. Theyd been told about it in the 
mortgage offer. And Mr M was told about it when he called Platform. Mr Ms email to the 
complaints team didnt ask whether there was an ERC. He asked Platform to agree not to 
apply it. 
Mr M says he cancelled the application after receiving the email on 16 December 2020 and 
before being told the email was incorrect. I think though that Mr and Mrs M ought reasonably 
to have known that this was an error. This is because the email referred to the mortgage 
offer and said no ERC had been payable since May 2019. I think Mr and Mrs M knew theyd 
taken out a new product from May 2019 and that this included an ERC. And Platform gave 
Mr M correct information about the ERC when he called, including on the same day that he 
received the email. 
Ive listened to Platforms call with Mr M on 22 December 2020 when he said he wanted to 
cancel the application. Mr M told the call handler the complaints team had said there would 
be no ERC if he went elsewhere. Platform queried this and asked Mr M to provide a copy of 
the email. It put Mr M on hold while it checked with the complaints team, who couldnt 
confirm saying this. Platform said the valuation fee could be refunded as the valuation hadnt 
been carried out. But it couldnt confirm that it wouldnt charge the ERC and porting fee. It 
said this would have to wait for the complaints team to finish their investigation. Mr M asked 
for a redemption statement. He cancelled the porting application. 
It was of course for Mr and Mrs M to decide whether to cancel the application. But if they did 
so in reliance on the 16 December 2020 email being right about there being no ERC, I dont 
think Platform is responsible for this. I think, despite the error, Platform gave Mr and Mrs M 
sufficiently clear information for them to be aware of the ERC when they decided to cancel 
the porting application. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require 
Platform to refund the ERC on the basis Mr and Mrs M were misled about whether an ERC 
was payable. 
The application timescalePlatform said in its final response letter that it hadnt been able to provide updates to Mr and 
Mrs M as often as it would like due to increased volumes of applications and reduced 
staffing levels at that time. This also meant that its usual timescale for processing 
applications increased to 10 to 12 weeks. This period starts when a customer makes an 
application and pays the application fee. Mr M was told about this timescale on 2 November 
2020, when he paid the application fee and the valuation fee. Platform confirmed on that call 
that it had received their application on 29 October 2020.
I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been. But I must take into account the 
circumstances at the time. There was a high level of activity in the housing market, in part 
due to the stamp duty holiday brought it by the UK government. And this was during the first 
year of the Covid-19 pandemic, when businesses and their staff had to work differently.
Mr M told Platform on 30 November 2020 they wanted to complete in two weeks. In mid-
December 2020 he asked for confirmation his application would be processed by 6 January 
2021. This was less than 10 weeks from the start of the application process. While Platform 
offered to expedite Mr and Mrs Ms application, it couldnt confirm it would be completed by 
6 January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs M had to make a difficult choice. They could avoid paying the ERC by continuing 
with their porting application but couldnt be certain theyd have a mortgage offer in place by 
6 January 2021. Or they could take out a mortgage with a different lender and pay the ERC. 
I can understand their frustration about this. But Platform had made them aware of its 
timescales and the ERC. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require 
Platform to refund the ERC on the basis its application timescales were too long. 
Adding the solicitor to the panel
Platform told Mr and Mrs M that it had declined to add their solicitor to its panel in mid-
December 2020. It had already contacted the solicitor to say the application was declined 
and the reason why. Platform said if the solicitors couldnt rectify the reason for the decline, 
Mr and Mrs M would need to appoint different solicitors. I think Platform is entitled to decide 
what criteria solicitors need to meet to be on its panel. While Mr and Mrs M wanted to use 
their preferred solicitor, I dont think I can fairly find that Platform made an error when it 
declined to add their solicitor to its panel.
Mr M says Platform caused delays in assessing whether the solicitor could be added to its 
panel. Platform says it didnt receive the paperwork from the solicitor. Either way, I dont 
think this affected the outcome of Mr and Mrs Ms porting application, which they decided to 
cancel.
Poor service and communication 
Platform accepts that, due to circumstances in late 2020, it didnt update Mr and Mrs M as 
often as it would have liked. Mr M says Platform didnt call when promised. Platform agreed 
to pay £125 compensation (in addition to the £25 it has already paid) for the upset this 
caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr M raised a complaint on 30 November 2020, which Platforms complaints team 
responded to. Platform sent a final response letter dated 28 January 2021. This was a few 
days more than eight weeks. 
I should say that as complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity, its not something we 
can always look into. I can look into Mr Ms concerns about how Platform dealt with his 
complaint if this caused delays or problems in sorting out the underlying problem. The underlying issues here were the application timescales, lack of updates, being given 
incorrect information about the ERC and their solicitor not being on Platforms panel. While 
Platform didnt respond within eight weeks, I dont think this affected how matters turned out 
 especially as Mr and Mrs M had decided to apply elsewhere before the eight weeks 
expired.
Platform did make an error in the 16 December 2020 email, suggesting no ERC was 
payable. Platform paid £25 for this. Given that Platform gave Mr M correct information, 
including on the same day as the email, I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay £125 to Mr and Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman