DRN-2678020
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, on 5 and 6 July 2020 Miss H made two transfers of £250 and £3,223.75 to 
buy a car shed seen advertised online and have it delivered to her. Miss H said she thought 
shed bought a roadworthy vehicle in a fair condition. But when the car arrived it was not in 
the condition Miss H was expecting. She says the car wasnt roadworthy, was unsafe, was a 
mixture of a few different models and that it wasnt on the right number plate. 
On 15 July 2020 Miss H contacted HSBC to say that the vehicle wasnt roadworthy, and 
shed been scammed. She asked HSBC to refund her the payments shed made and is 
unhappy that HSBC has refused to do so. Miss H is also unhappy with the service provided 
by HSBC. She says staff talked down to her and patronised her. She also says that in a call 
to HSBC she was advised it would send out an engineer to inspect the vehicle, but this didnt 
happen, and HSBC later denied making the offer. Miss H tried to return the vehicle to the 
seller but was told this wasnt possible. 
HSBC say that an authorised push payment (APP) scam hasnt happened and Miss H has a 
civil dispute with the seller. It said this because Miss H paid for a car and received one - but 
it wasnt what she was expecting or as described. 
Our investigator considered the matter. He concluded HSBC had correctly said this
situation was outside of the scope of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) and 
agreed this was a dispute between Miss H and the seller. The investigator also said that as 
Miss H transferred funds to the seller, she did not have the protection she would have if 
shed made card payments.
Miss H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter. Miss 
H said the car was not as described, would not pass an MOT test and had an illegal number 
plate. For these reasons Miss H said she was the victim of a scam, and she said Action 
Fraud agreed. Miss H says HSBC and the investigator said she got what she paid for, but 
she disagreed. Miss H also said she should have the protection that paying by card gives 
because she transferred funds from a credit card account to her current account to buy the 
car. Finally, Miss H discussed the huge impact the complaint has had on her health and well-
being. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should HSBC have refunded Miss H under the CRM Code?
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which HSBC
has signed up to and was in force at the time Miss H made the payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer
who is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the
circumstances of the payments Miss H made and, in particular, whether HSBC ought to
reimburse her under the provisions of the Code. The Practitioner Guide associated with the 
Code describes an APP scam as follows:
(a) APP Scam 
Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a Customer in accordance 
with regulation 67 of the PSRs, where 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead deceived into 
transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
The Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to civil disputes. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some
way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Miss H made formed part of a civil
dispute and, as such, are not covered by the Code. Miss H strongly disagrees.
I appreciate that the vehicle Miss H received wasnt what she expected and understand her 
disappointment. But my role is to consider if HSBC should have done more, and in deciding 
this I need to decide whether, on the balance of probabilities, the seller of the car deceived 
her for financial gain. 
Miss H says its no longer possible to view the advert to which she responded but she has 
kindly provided copies of her email correspondence with the seller and later with the sellers 
son. Its clear from these emails that the seller of the car answered all of Miss Hs questions 
about the car before the sale and offered to provide further pictures if required. After the car 
had been delivered the sellers son corresponded with Miss H, as he explained his father 
was elderly and in poor health. He said,
I have to say that I'm surprised there are any concerns, the car is 52 years old and the 
condition commensurate with it's [sic] age and the 76,000 miles it has covered during this 
time. The many photos shared show it's [sic] condition and the questions and answers clarify 
points around the oil pressure, MOT, indicators and a wealth of other insights about the car. 
We have owned a number of classic cars over the years and this one is a fair reflection of 
the marque, it's not concourse but then the value would be considerably more if it were, it's a 
good honest classic car that runs and drives beautifully. There were certainly no issues 
when it left here.
In other emails the sellers son says the car was sold in good faith. He noted Miss H didnt 
view the car or have it inspected and chose to have it delivered to her. Miss H referenced the problems with the car and the fact she considered it to be, a ringer. 
She went on to say,
I am prepared to accept that it isnt your fault  I do tend to collect esoteric knowledge and 
unless you know both cars well the differences are subtle.
In another email when Miss H threatened legal proceedings she said,
I dont think your father is at fault, but I dont have any other choice to recover my money. 
Taking into account everything thats been said and provided, Im not persuaded on the 
balance of probabilities that Miss H has been a victim of a scam. It seems more likely to me 
that the seller sold the car in good faith and that if the car is a combination of different 
models the seller was unaware. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the seller sold a car 
he knew to be defective or not as described to dishonestly obtain funds from Miss H. Im also 
mindful of the age of the car and the fact the sellers son continued to communicate with 
Miss H for some time after the purchase and said at one point that he was keen to reach an 
amicable solution. Fraudsters usually have no contact once they have received payment.  
So I consider that Miss H was sold a car by a legitimate supplier but she considers it to be 
defective or is otherwise dissatisfied with the seller. Whilst I understand why Miss H is 
unhappy, and the financial and other implications, I dont think HSBC treated Miss H unfairly 
when it said the payments she made were not covered by the CRM Code.
Ive also considered whether the payments Miss H made for the car were so unusual that 
HSBC should have asked her questions about them. Ive seen Miss Hs statements for the 
twelve-month period before the payments and dont consider the deposit payment to be at all 
unusual. Turning to the £3,223.75 payment, Miss Hs statements show some credits that are 
rapidly followed by debits, as was the case for this payment. For example, in April 2020 
£5,000 was credited to Miss Hs account and later that day a payment of £4,000 was made. 
Given this, and the fact the £3,223.75 payment was for less than in April 2020, I dont think it 
would have stood out as unusual or suspicious given her normal account and payment 
history. So I wouldnt have expected HSBC to ask any questions about it.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and chargeback
Im aware Miss H has explained that she transferred funds from her credit card account to 
buy the car and for this reason she should be protected. Section 75 of the CCA makes the 
provider of credit equally liable with the supplier where there is a case of misrepresentation 
or breach of contract by the supplier of goods or services financed by the credit. It doesnt 
apply in this case because Miss H didnt pay for the car using her credit card. Instead she 
transferred funds in to her current account and made bank transfers  so did not use credit 
to buy the car. This means she is not protected by S75 CCA 1974. 
Chargeback applies to credit and debit card payments, so also doesnt apply to the 
payments Miss H made for the car  as she paid by bank transfer. 
The service provided by HSBC
Ive listened to Miss Hs calls with HSBC in relation to this complaint and have read the 
communications sent to her. Having done so I consider HSBC staff were polite and 
courteous at all times. I found no evidence that HSBC staff spoke down to Miss H and so am 
not upholding this element of her complaint. 
Miss H has said HSBC told her it would send someone out to inspect the car. Ive listened to 
the relevant call and dont agree this was ever offered. I appreciate though that Miss H had some difficulty in hearing what the agent said during the call, and this may be the reason for 
the misunderstanding. Miss H said, Well the car is standing here if someone wants to have 
a look at it. The HSBC agent responded that Miss H should keep all the evidence she has 
for now and that she would indicate in the record that the car was at Miss Hs address if 
there was a need to check it. I also cant see that this is a service HSBC, as Miss Hs bank, 
should provide. 
Overall
I can see why Miss H will think the situation she finds himself isnt very fair and am sorry to 
hear her health has suffered as a result of what has happened. Shes paid for
something she considers to be worth much less than she thought. But theres not enough 
evidence to show the seller deceived her for financial gain. I also appreciate Miss H feels the 
bank has failed her and she should receive redress. But for the reasons I have explained, I 
disagree. It follows that I cannot fairly direct HSBC to bear her loss.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman