DRN-3277150
The complaint
Mr A complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited didnt provide the service it should have 
when he asked about a partial settlement of his hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. In October 2020, he called MotoNovo to make a payment to bring his account up 
to date following payment deferrals. He then asked about the impact of making a lump sum 
payment. He says he was told that his agreement was zero interest and so the lump sum 
payment wouldnt save interest but that it would be considered a partial settlement and that 
MotoNovos system wouldnt allow for a partial settlement to be processed.
In May 2021, Mr A contacted MotoNovo about the remaining balance on his account and 
asked again about a partial settlement. He was again told there would be no interest saving 
but this time was told he could make a lump sum payment and his regular monthly 
instalments would be reduced. Mr A raised a complaint about the incorrect information on 
the previous call. MotoNovo said Mr A could make a lump sum payment and it would back 
date it to October 2020.
MotoNovo issued its final response in May 2021. It acknowledged its mistake and offered to 
pay Mr A £150 compensation because of this.
Our investigator confirmed that Mr As agreement was zero interest and so MotoNovo had 
given correct information about that. However, he said it should have allowed Mr A to make 
the lump sum payment when he first asked which would have reduced the ongoing 
instalment amounts. He noted Mr As comments about the impact of the pandemic and 
needing to pay the £620 monthly instalments but said that as the lump sum payment wasnt 
made Mr A still had the funds to pay towards the agreement over time and that it was Mr As 
choice if he used this money for other purposes. He noted that MotoNovo provided Mr A with 
financial support during 2020 by suspending monthly payments for five months and that 
Mr A didnt make further contact and so MotoNovo wouldnt have been aware that he 
needed further support. Based on this he thought MotoNovos offer to backdate the lump 
sum payment and pay £150 compensation was reasonable. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that he had lost out because of 
MotoNovos mistake as had the lump sum payment been taken he then wouldnt have had 
the money available to gamble and his monthly instalments would have reduced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this issue has caused Mr A inconvenience and upset as when he initially 
asked about making a lump sum payment he wasnt given the correct information. MotoNovo 
has accepted that a mistake was made and in these circumstances we would expect the 
business to put the consumer back in the position they would have been had the mistake not 
been made and, where appropriate, pay compensation.
In this case, Mr A has a zero interest agreement and so when he asked about the impact of 
making a lump sum payment he was correctly told that there would be no interest saving. 
However, on the October 2020 call he was told that he couldnt do a partial settlement. This 
information was incorrect, but Mr A didnt know that until he called in May 2021. Because of 
the incorrect information MotoNovo offered to back date a payment to October 2020. As 
there was no interest on the agreement not making the lump sum payment in October didnt 
mean that Mr A missed any interest savings or was caused any other direct financial loss. 
Therefore, I think the offer to back date a payment was a reasonable attempt to put Mr A 
back in the position he would have been.
Mr A has said that because he didnt make the payment in October 2020 he had funds 
available that he then gambled and lost. He then had to keep making the monthly instalment 
payments which were higher than would have been the case had the lump sum payment 
been made. I understand the points Mr A has made and am sorry to hear of the financial 
circumstances he found himself in. However, I do not find that I can hold MotoNovo 
responsible for the choice Mr A made to spend the money. By not taking the lump sum 
payment in October 2020, Mr A would still have had the money available to him which he 
could have used towards his ongoing repayments. I also note that MotoNovo had provided 
Mr A with previous assistance through payment deferrals when requested in 2020. 
In conclusion, while I understand why Mr A is upset, I do not find there is a financial loss that 
MotoNovo can reasonably be held accountable for. Therefore, I have considered the amount 
of compensation based on the upset and inconvenience Mr A was caused by not being 
given the correct information about the partial settlement payment in October 2020. Based 
on this I think the offer of £150 is reasonable. If Mr A would like to accept this payment he 
should discuss it directly with MotoNovo. 
My final decision
My final decision is that MotoNovo Finance Limiteds offer of £150 compensation is a 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman