The complaint
Mr J complains about the effect of new security measures introduced by Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax) in relation to his credit card. Mr J complains that the new security 
measures impact the additional cardholders ability to make payments and use the account. 
What happened
Mr J has a credit card with Halifax. Mr Js wife is an additional card holder. 
Last year Halifax introduced new security measures that meant it could sent a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) to the primary card holder to authorise online payments. Halifax also 
introduced an application that allowed the primary cardholder to freeze the account if they 
were concerned a card had been lost. 
Mr J complained and said the new security measures would make it harder for the additional 
card holder to use the credit card. Mr J has also raised concerns about whether the way 
Halifax operates its credit card could lead to economic control and abuse. 
Halifax responded on 28 August 2019 but didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said that whilst 
Mr J could use the application, his wife as the additional card holder could not. Halifax said 
Mr Js wife could call it if she is concerned about losing her card. Halifax quoted the credit 
card terms that said Mr J was responsible for any spending on the credit card by either card 
holder. Halifax explained that the additional card holder had no legal responsibility on the 
account. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
Halifax had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr J asked to 
appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that credit cards are not normally held in joint names. In this case, 
Mr J is the customer of Halifax and the credit card account is in his sole name. Mr Js wife 
accesses the account as an authorised additional card holder, but that doesnt mean its a 
joint account. It means that Mr J has authorised Halifax to give someone else a credit card 
that can be used to debit his account. Mr J is solely responsible for the credit card debt and 
he is Halifaxs customer in relation to the account. 
I can see Mr J has concerns about the potential for financial control and abuse, but he hasnt 
raised any specific concerns in relation to his credit card or circumstances. Whilst I note Mr 
Js concerns, we can only investigate a specific complaint about issues that have impacted a 
DRN-1407572consumer. In this case, Mr J hasnt raised any concerns that he has been the victim of 
financial abuse or control. 
Ive considered what he says, but as, Ive said above, the credit card isnt jointly held and is 
in his name only. So I think Halifaxs decision to only allow him, as the account holder, to use 
its application increases the level of protection he has against financial control or abuse. Im 
not persuaded that Halifaxs decision to only allow the primary card holder to download the 
application is unfair. 
I understand Mr Js concerns that other businesses do things differently. But Halifax is free 
to decide how to operate and what controls to put in place. Im not persuaded that Halifax 
has acted unfairly by taking the decision to only allow the primary card holder, its cusomter, 
access to its application. I note Mr Js concern that his wife would have to call Halifax if she 
lost her card. But I dont agree thats unreasonably inconvenient or unfair. 
Halifax says it will send a OTP to the account holder as part of the authorisation process for 
some online payments. Again, I note Mr Js concerns but Halifax can chose what security 
measures to put in place. In this case, it says the OTP was introduced to provide additional 
security to online purchases. Im satisfied Halifax acted reasonably by introducing additional 
steps to protect the account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. As I'm 
satisfied Halifax has dealt with this complaint fairly, I'm not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman