DRN-2143210
The complaint
Miss A complains MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) lent her money she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Miss A took out two instalment loans with MYJAR. The details for these loans are:
Loan Date amount instalments monthly 
repaymentRepayment 
date
1 08/12/2016 £300 6 up to £93.87 23/06/2017
2 25/06/2017 £300 6 up to £89.79 Outstanding
When Miss A complained to MYJAR that the loans werent affordable it didnt agree. It says 
it was entitled to rely on the information Miss A gave about her income and outgoings, and 
when it did so, along with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loans were affordable 
for her. 
The adjudicator recommended that Miss As complaint should not be upheld. they have 
concluded MYJAR carried out proportionate checks for the loans and so it didnt do anything 
wrong. 
Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators view and said her expenses were a lot higher at the 
time than what she disclosed to MYJAR. She says it should have carried out better checks 
and seen she couldnt afford the loans. As both parties are still not in agreement, the 
complaint has come to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss A could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss As income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MYJAR did a number of checks before it lent to Miss A. It asked her for details of her income 
and her normal expenditure. And it then used this information to calculate how much 
disposable income Miss A had left over each month. MYJAR also says it used a credit 
reference agency to gather some more information about Miss As financial situation at that 
time although it has not been able to provide any documentation or the results from the 
checks.
MYJAR says Miss A told it she was earning £1600 when she applied for loans 1 and 2. It 
says she told it she had expenditure of around £750. MYJAR says the credit agency check it 
carried out on each occasion was satisfactory although again, I havent been able to see 
what it says it saw at the time. 
I can see for loans 1 and 2 the monthly repayment was a small proportion of Miss As 
declared disposable income, the instalment amount on each occasion was low, and this was 
her first two loans with MYJAR. So, for those reasons, I am satisfied that the checks carried 
out by MYJAR for loans 1 and 2 were proportionate.
Miss A has said MYJAR should have carried out thorough checks when it agreed to lend and 
that it should have seen that the expenditure, she declared was a lot higher, making the 
loans unaffordable. MYJAR has confirmed that it used Credit Reference Agencies as part of 
its affordability assessment but as I have already said, it has not given much detail about 
this. There wasnt any requirement for it to carry out detailed credit checks  just that it 
needed to conduct proportionate checks. And as Ive said above, I think that proportionate 
checks would have shown that the two loans were affordable for Miss A based on what she 
told them for the reasons I have already given. MYJAR was also entitled to rely on what Miss 
A had told them at this stage.
In conclusion, I consider the affordability checks that MYJAR made on Miss As two loans 
were proportionate and sufficient. So, I cant say now that it was wrong for MYJAR to give 
loans 1 and 2 to Miss A. And so, I cant require it to do anything further.
Finally, I can see that Miss A has an amount left to repay for loan 2. I would ask that both 
parties discuss repayment of the amount outstanding and that MYJAR treat Miss A fairly 
when it does this.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman