DRN-3956121
The complaint
Miss M complains that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company declined 
her claim against her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 8 June 2022, Miss M took out a single trip travel insurance 
policy underwritten by Chaucer. The policy covered Miss M and her two children for the 
period 13 June 2022 to 27 June 2022 inclusive. Miss M selected the additional option of 
gadget cover. 
On 18 June 2022, whilst on a trip, two iPads were stolen from Miss Ms handbag along 
with her purse which contained cash, credit cards, her driving licence, and sentimental 
items. Theres a dispute about the circumstances of the loss, which Ill refer to in more 
detail below. 
On 21 June 2022, Miss M made a claim against her policy. On 26 September 2022,      
Chaucer declined Miss Ms claim. It apologised for the delay in dealing with the matter. 
Chaucer relied on exclusions in the policy in relation to property left unattended in a 
public place. Miss M didnt think that was fair and pursued her complaint. 
Miss M said that Chaucer made assumptions about the theft. She says that the items 
were taken from her bag between 10am and 2pm and that during that time she visited 
the hotel restaurant, the pool, the hotel shop, and toilets. Miss M says that her bag was 
always in her possession and/or sight and was zipped closed. She wants Chaucer to 
settle her claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Chaucer 
had acted unfairly in declining Miss Ms claim. The investigator said that the policy 
excludes theft of gadgets left unattended in a public place or a place to which the public 
has regular access. She said that when Miss M first made the claim she said that her 
bag could have been left unattended.  
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Chaucer declined the claim on 
the basis of her initial report of the loss, which was when she was panicking and before 
shed spoken to her daughter. Her daughter subsequently confirmed that she didnt 
leave the breakfast table in the restaurant. Miss M says she mentioned that may have 
been a possibility as she thought she had to give reasons why the items had gone 
missing. 
Miss M said that the exclusion the investigator mentioned related only to gadgets and 
she also lost a purse containing cash. She said that she didnt leave the bag unattended 
at the pool as it was within her sight. 
Miss M asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Subject to the policy terms,     
Miss M had cover for lost or stolen personal belongings and money (sections F1 and F3 of 
the policy). The additional gadget cover Miss M purchased covers accidental loss or theft of 
iPads under 36 months old (section M of the policy).
In relation to the loss or theft of personal belongings and money, theres an exclusion that 
says:
What you are not covered for under Sections F1 [], F3 []
[]
Property you leave unattended in a public place.
In relation to the loss or theft of gadgets, the exclusion says:
What you are not covered for under Section M
[]
Theft of the gadget left unattended in a public place or a place to which the public 
has regular access.
The policy defines unattended as:
When you do not have full view of your property or where you are not in a position to 
prevent the unauthorised taking of your property, unless it is left in a locked room or a locked 
safety deposit facility. [] 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says:
What is not insured?
[]
x Loss, theft or damage to valuables, money or passports left unattended at any time, unless 
deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked accommodation.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Chaucer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding 
Miss Ms complaint because I dont think that Chaucer treated her unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining her claim. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of exclusions set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.I dont think that the exclusions Ive set out above are unusual or onerous. Its quite 
common for insurers to exclude cover for items left unattended. And Chaucer 
referred to the exclusions in the IPID, so it provided Miss M with sufficient information 
about the exclusions. 
I dont think that Chaucer acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the exclusions. 
Thats because in Miss Ms first notification of the loss, she told Chaucer that the 
items went missing between 10am and 2pm and that her bag was only unattended 
for a very short time when my youngest child was struggling in the pool and I went to 
help him. I last saw all the items in my bag at breakfast at 10am. Its possible the bag 
was unattended for a short period at the breakfast table if my daughter left the table 
while I was getting coffee (she doesnt recall). 
Based on Miss Ms statement, Chaucer said that there was no cover as the items 
had been unattended. I dont think that Chaucer was at fault in relying on what     
Miss M said at the first notification of the loss. Her memory is likely to be more 
accurate soon after the event, rather than sometime later. 
Miss M subsequently said that her initial report of the loss was when she was 
panicking and before shed spoken to her daughter, who later confirmed that she 
hadnt left the breakfast table in the hotel restaurant. But Miss Ms first notification of 
the loss to Chaucer was a couple of days after the incident, not immediately after it 
had happened when she might, understandably, have been panicking. And, on 
balance, I think its unlikely that Miss M hadnt spoken to her daughter about whether 
shed left the bag unattended at breakfast at the time she first made the claim.     
Miss Ms first notification of loss referred to her daughter not recalling whether she 
left the bag unattended, which suggests that theyd had a conversation about the 
matter. 
Considering everything, I dont think that Chaucer acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
relying on the exclusions Ive set out above. Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but there 
are no grounds on which I can fairly direct Chaucer to settle her claim.
Chaucer took much longer than wed expect to deal with Miss Ms claim. It 
apologised for that. I dont think it needs to do any more in relation to its delay in 
dealing with the claim.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman