DRN-3757640
The complaint
Mr M has complained that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCUL) failed to refund 
him after an ATM didnt dispense the full £250 that he was attempting to withdraw.
What happened
Mr M said that as he is on benefits, he always takes out £250 from his account by an ATM 
every two weeks to pay his bills. 
With this transaction at the ATM outside a shop, MR M said the lid of the ATM opened but it 
didnt push out the cash. He grabbed at it and got £50 in £10 notes and then the shutter 
came down. The shop couldnt help as its not their machine. So, he called the number on 
the ATM and the person he spoke to said they could see the transaction and confirmed the 
money went back into the machine. 
Mr M then contacted LCCUL, who said there was nothing they could do as theres nothing to 
prove Mr M was telling the truth about not receiving all of the cash that he had requested. 
So, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator contacted LCCUL, who initially said it 
had received no complaint from Mr M. It then looked into the complaint but maintained it 
wasnt liable. Since then, it hasnt replied to our requests, nor did it respond to the 
investigators view, so Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
LCCUL has provided no evidence that it investigated this matter as we would have expected 
it to do for Mr M. The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) say the following: 
75. - (1) Where a payment service user:
(b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
 it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction 
was authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service 
providers accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other 
deficiency in the service provided by the payment service provider.
As Mr M was trying to withdraw funds from his LCCUL account, LCCUL is the payment 
service provider here. So, given that Mr M says the payment didnt execute correctly, the 
onus lies with LCCUL to show that it did. Otherwise, I wouldnt consider it fair to hold Mr M 
liable for the transaction. If it needs information from another party (such as the ATM 
provider) to prove authentication, thats a matter between LCUUL and the third party. 
Mr M told us that when he phoned the number on the ATM, the operator he talked to 
confirmed they could see the transaction and that the money had gone back into the 
machine. Therefore, had LCCUL contacted the owner of the ATM it should have been able 
to obtain this evidence from the ATM owner and verified if what Mr M said he was told was 
correct.
Also had LCCUL contacted the owner of the ATM, it would have been able to obtain 
evidence to show whether the ATM had balanced after Mr Ms transaction, and whether 
there were any spare funds in the ATMs purge box. This is the standard of evidence the 
regulations require LCCUL to obtain when a consumer like Mr M raises a dispute like this. 
So as LCCUL hasnt shown the payment likely authenticated correctly, I consider it hasnt 
treated Mr M fairly or reasonably and consequently Im upholding this complaint. LCCUL 
should refund Mr M the sum of £200, adding simple interest of 8% per year from the date Mr 
M made the ATM transaction to the date of its refund. This is to address the loss hes 
alleging  given that hes told us he received £50 but was charged for £250. 
Mr M was put to some considerable distress given LCCULs lack of investigation. He 
explained he had to borrow money from his family in order to pay his bills. So, I agree with 
the investigator that LCCUL should pay him some compensation in the sum of £100, which I 
consider to be reasonable. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, it my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require London Community Credit Union Limited to do the following:
Refund Mr M the £200 which the ATM didnt dispense. 
Add simple interest of 8% per year from the date Mr M made the transaction at the 
ATM to the date of its refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr M for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Mr M the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman