DRN-2949248
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
claims under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and largely not in 
dispute, so Ive only summarised them here. 
In March 2020 Mr K made a claim as damp patches were appearing on walls in his 
house. He believed the water was escaping from a boiler in a neighbouring property.
Investigations by LV confirmed there were no leaks from the neighbours boiler and 
that the water ingress was likely to be as a result of damaged rendering on a 
chimney stack.
LV made a cash settlement, less the excess, to cover the cost of repairing the water 
damage and drying of the property. But it didnt pay for the repairs to the rendering as 
this was considered to be wear and tear. 
Mr K arranged for the rendering to be repaired and also had the roof replaced.
In January 2021 Mr K contacted LV to report water damage to similar areas of his 
house. LV investigated and advised the damp was from two sources, a leak from the 
neighbours boiler and damp from the previous claim that hadnt been dried out.  
LV proceeded with the claim treating it as a new issue and therefore deducted the 
policy excess.
Mr K wasnt happy with LVs approach and believed it should be treated as one claim 
and shouldnt deduct another excess.
Our investigator felt LV had acted reasonably in its investigation into the initial claim 
and that the cause of the water ingress at the time was the poor condition of the 
rendering and there was no evidence of a leak in the neighbours boiler. So he 
couldnt conclude LV had acted unreasonably in recording the two claims as 
separate events.
Mr K remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator and largely for the same reasons. When I refer 
to LV I include its agents and contractors.
I can understand why Mr K feels the incidents should be treated as one claim given his belief 
that the damage he first reported was caused by a leak from his neighbours boiler. However, 
I have to consider the evidence in making my determination as to whether LV acted 
reasonably and fairly in its handling of the claims Mr K made.
Whilst I cannot be certain there wasnt a leak from the neighbours boiler when the first claim 
was reported I am satisfied that LV took reasonable steps to investigate the cause of the 
damage. 
Ive seen that there was a physical examination of the neighbours boiler with no evidence of 
a leak observed. And given the condition of the render and roof its reasonable for LV to 
conclude this was the cause of the water ingress. And it settled the claim fairly on this basis. 
Within the settlement there was an allowance for drying the property and this didnt happen. 
Had the drying been carried out, and damp persisted it might have supported Mr Ks view 
that a leak was still occurring.
On balance, Ive not seen evidence of a misdiagnosis or failings in LVs investigation into the 
cause of the damage. The leak from the boiler couldve occurred after the first claim was 
investigated, and I cant fairly conclude that LV has acted unreasonably in recording the two 
claims as separate events.
I note LV made a mistake in its recording of the initial claim, incorrectly noting it as an 
incident only rather than having made a settlement payment. This resulted in a reduced 
premium being charged. And it wasnt unreasonable for Mr K to believe this reduced 
premium was as a result of LV treating the two incidents as one claim. LV have confirmed it 
wont be taking any action to recoup the reduction it incorrectly applied, and I think thats 
only fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman