DRN-4142133
The complaint
Mr P complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy following the theft of his car. 
What happened
Mr P bought a car for cash. A month later, it was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. 
The car was later recovered, and the police said it had been previously stolen and cloned. 
The police seized the car. Advantage then declined the claim as it said Mr P didnt have any 
insurable interest in the car. Mr P said hed completed all the needed checks before buying 
the car. He thought some of his cars parts may have been put in the recovered car and that 
his car remained missing. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr P 
had made the necessary checks before buying the car and wasnt aware the car was stolen. 
But he thought Mr P never legally owned the car and so neither he nor Advantage had an 
insurable interest in it. The police confirmed that the recovered car was the one Mr P had 
bought. He thought the policy didnt cover Mr P for the police taking the car away. And so he 
thought Advantage had reasonably declined the claim.
Mr P replied that he thought the recovered car wasnt his. Mr P asked for an Ombudsmans 
review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration that hed bought a car in good faith. It was recovered but 
it was identified as previously stolen. And so Advantage has declined his claim.
When the car was taken for repairs following its recovery, the engineers found two different 
vehicle identification numbers (VINs) on the car. Advantage said the car had been cloned. 
Cloning is where someone puts the number plates and maybe even the VIN of another 
vehicle that is the same make and model on to a stolen vehicle. This disguises the stolen 
vehicle by turning it into a clone, making it appear just like the other vehicle.
Mr P questioned whether it was actually the car hed bought that had been recovered. But I 
can see that Advantage confirmed this with the police. So Im satisfied that the recovered car 
was the one Mr P had paid for. 
I note that the relatively new car was sold to Mr P with only one key and for a very good 
price for cash in a private sale. But Mr P said hed made online checks for the cars history 
and finance, and hes provided screenshots of these. The police confirmed that the visible 
VINs were in order. It was only when a dealer was conducting an electronic health check 
that the discrepancies came to light. And the police told Advantage that the cars genuine V5 
registration document provided by the cars seller was fraudulently obtained from the DVLA. 
Advantage agreed that Mr P had bought the car in good faith. Our approach where the 
customer paid for the vehicle in cash, as Mr P did, and the cloned vehicle was stolen, is to 
consider the individual circumstances of the case to decide whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to make the insurer pay.
We think that the insurer would be correct in arguing the customer does not have an 
insurable interest in the vehicle and this means that technically there is no cover under their 
policy. But we may consider it fair and reasonable for them to pay on the basis they bought 
the vehicle in good faith and there has been an event covered by the policy, i.e. the vehicle 
has been stolen or written off. And the customer has suffered a loss because they cant 
claim all or part of what they paid for the cloned vehicle back from their bank.
But we would not expect the insurer to pay where the cloned vehicle was recovered from the 
customer, as there has not been an event covered by the policy that led to the customer 
losing the vehicle. 
And in Mr Ps case, the car had been stolen but it had been recovered. And then it was 
seized by the police as a stolen vehicle. This event isnt covered by his policy. And so Im 
satisfied that Advantage has reasonably and fairly declined the claim because neither it nor 
Mr P had any insurable interest in the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman