DRN-2151819
The complaint
Mr I complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and then closed his account. Hes also unhappy 
about the way Revolut handled things. He wants Revolut to pay him compensation for the 
trouble and upset he was caused. 
What happened
Mr I had an account with Revolut. On 12 August 2019 the bank blocked the account  
meaning Mr I was unable to use it during that time. The bank wouldnt tell Mr I much about 
what was happening  only that it was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Following this, on 23 September 2019, Revolut decided it no longer wanted Mr I as a 
customer and closed his account. 
Mr I complained to the bank about the lack of information. He said as a result of blocking his 
account he had had to rearrange a training course he had organised to attend. He wants 
Revolut to provide a proper explanation why it blocked and closed his account. Mr Is also 
unhappy that when he tried to speak to Revolut about what was happening with his account 
he could only do so via an online app.
 
Revolut said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in accordance with the terms of 
the account and relevant regulations. Mr I wasnt happy with the banks response. So, he 
referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators considered it. She said Revolut 
hadnt done anything wrong. She also explained that the bank didnt have to provide an 
explanation why it had decided to block and close Mr Is account. And she didnt think 
Revolut had taken too long to release Mr Is funds.
Mr I disagreed. He said Revolut hasnt treated him fairly and similar things had happened to 
his relatives and friends. He wants Revolut to provide a proper explanation why it blocked 
his account and no longer wants him as a customer. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr Is told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint.  I 
appreciate that hes upset that Revolut blocked and closed his account. I can also 
understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as he had plans to use the 
money in his account to pay for a course. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be 
satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill 
explain why.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts. Revolut has said that Mr Is access to his account was blocked to meet these 
requirements. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Revolut was 
within its rights to review Mr Is account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out 
that review. 
Revolut also werent obliged to tell Mr I why it was carrying out a review of his account  as 
much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. The 
terms and conditions also permit Revolut to block an account. So, I cant say the bank has 
done anything wrong by not providing this information to Mr I.  However, I note that Revolut 
sent Mr I an email on 20 August 2019, to explain it had blocked his account to comply with 
its statutory obligations. So, I think its likely he had some understanding of the reasons 
behind Revoluts actions.
Mr Is also unhappy about the service he received when tried to get in touch with Revolut to 
find out what was happening with his account. In particular, hes upset that the only way he 
was able to communicate with Revolut was via its app. He wouldve much rather have had 
spoken to someone over the phone.
 
I can appreciate having to communicate via an app wouldve have been frustrating for Mr I  
especially as he wasnt being given the information he wanted. But as the investigator has 
already explained, we cant tell a business to change it processes. Ive also noted that 
Revolut wrote to Mr I on more than one occasion to explain things to him and addressed his 
complaint fully  albeit he wasnt happy with the outcome. 
Mr I says Revolut took too long to complete its review and release his money. And shouldve 
done things more quickly. Hes said he had to rearrange a course hed booked in August 
2019 to later in the year because he didnt have access to his money. I can see that Revolut 
took around six weeks to complete its review and return Mr Is funds to him. I dont consider 
this was unreasonable. Im satisfied Revolut completed its review in timely manner and did 
things as quickly as it could.
I accept that Mr I was caused trouble and upset as a result of Revoluts actions But as Ive 
explained, banks have to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut was complying with its obligations when it blocked Mr Is 
account. And whilst I accept this caused Mr I inconvenience, I cant say Revolut treated him 
unfairly. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make an award of compensation for that 
since I dont believe it acted inappropriately. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Is account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
In his submissions to us, Mr I said that he suspects fraud systems malfunctioned, which led 
to numerous accounts being blocked. And instead of investigating things properly it decided 
to close a number of accounts, including his. The reason for his suspicion is because his 
acquaintances had similar experiences who also have accounts with Revolut. Whilst I 
recognise the strength of his feeling, Ive not seen any evidence to support Mr Is suspicions. 
I cant comment on what has happened to his acquaintances because I only have the power 
to consider Mr Is complaint against Revolut.Banks should give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that means 60 
days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. Mr Is account was 
blocked from 12 August 2019; he was unable to gain access to the funds in it until 23 
September 2019. Whilst the account was formally closed on 23 September 2019 (without 
notice), I believe that the account was effectively closed on 12 August 2019  since after that 
time Mr I couldnt use it. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view that wasnt 
unreasonable. And the bank acted line with the account terms and relevant regulations. So, I 
cant say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed Mr Is account.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr I feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr I will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Revolut have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mr I unfairly when it blocked and closed his account. So, Im not going to ask the 
bank to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman