DRN-1145473
Complaint
Miss T says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a new credit card in 2009. 
Background
I can see that Miss T has already been offered some money for the commission NatWest 
received from selling her the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Miss T had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Miss T disagreed and still thought she had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. So she 
asked that an ombudsman make a final decision about her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
NatWest sent us its records of the application which show Miss T consented to having PPI 
with her new card. It looks to me as if the policy was discussed and the details were set out 
on the form which was printed and then given to Miss T to check and sign. 
I can she theres a tick in a box directly beside a statement which says I wish to purchase 
Payment Protection Insurance. Miss T also signed her name directly above and below this 
statement. So Im afraid I think this is very strong evidence indeed that she consented to the 
cover at the time.
NatWest says it didnt provide an advised sale and so it needed only to provide Miss T with 
enough information so she could decide for herself whether or not she wanted PPI. 
Underneath the section Ive described above, there was information describing the policy 
which I think would have prompted Miss T to think about whether the cover was right for her. 
I can accept NatWest might not have done everything right, but I dont see anything that 
would make me uphold her complaint.
This is because I dont think Miss T was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in these policies. And because it cost £0.79 for every £100 outstanding on her monthly 
credit card balance, I think it would have been affordable for her. In the event of a successful 
claim on the PPI policy, Miss T would have also been able to have her outstanding balance 
reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. Looking at her overall situation, I think this 
is probably why she chose the PPI on her application  I think she agreed to the cover, even 
if she doesnt remember this now.
Which means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss T. But it has 
agreed to pay back to Miss T the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back to Miss T any extra interest Miss T paid 
because of that. NatWest should re-work the credit card account and pay back the difference 
between what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest should also pay her 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss T can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all the cost of the PPI to Miss T. But it does have to pay back to any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
 
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman