DRN-3749300
The complaint
Miss G has complained about her home insurer Tesco Underwriting Limited as she feels it 
delayed her storm claim, often leaving it to her to follow matters up.
What happened
Miss G contacted Tesco on 18 February 2022 as a storm had caused a tree on her property 
to fall, causing damage. Miss G was told to send repair quotes. She did and on 18 March 
she asked for an update but the claim did not progress much until 10 May 2022. At that time 
Tesco wrote to Miss G. It said the slow progress of the claim had been caused by the storm 
conditions in February causing an increased demand on its services. 
Miss G complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that even taking into account the increased level of demand, Tesco 
could have done more to deal with the claim pro-actively. She felt Miss G had had to wait too 
long for answers and accepted that this had caused her some upset. She said Tesco should 
pay £100 compensation. 
Miss G accepted the findings. Tesco said it disagreed with them  maintaining it had handled 
things adequately given the increased level of demand. The complaint was passed for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that when something like a major storm event occurs, added pressures are placed 
on insurers. And certainly storms occurring is something that is outside of the insurers 
control. However, storms have become more frequent in recent times  they are not as 
unexpected as they used to be. Rather the more prevalent storms, and the natural increase 
in demand they cause, is something I would reasonably expect an insurer to foresee and 
plan for. So, in my view, Tesco, effectively, writing Miss Gs concerns off as being due to 
matters beyond its control, is not an entirely reasonable position for it to take.
Here Tesco took the notification call from Miss G on 18 February 2022. And it accepts it was 
then three days, due to service demand, before it formerly logged the claim. Seemingly 
Miss G had been told to get quotes  but not what to expect following that. If shed been 
given timeframes and an idea of what might happens next  even if this more involved detail 
needed to be given once the claim was formally logged  that would likely have avoided the 
frustration she was later caused. Instead, once she had sent the quotes, Miss G had to 
chase a reply. This caused Tesco to review the quotes and then it felt the need to investigate 
the costs further. It appointed a contractor to do that  but without checking with the 
contractor first that it had availability, which it did not. Instead Miss G found this out from the 
contractor and when she called Tesco back five days later to discuss next steps, it was only 
then that Tesco reviewed an update it had received from the contractor explaining exactly 
that. I can understand why this frustrated Miss G.
Following this a loss adjuster was appointed and further consideration of the claim ensued. 
I can understand why, these enquiries, at this time, frustrated Miss G. 
Overall I think Miss G had to do more to expedite this claim than she reasonably should 
have had to. I think Tesco, even in a period of increased demand, could reasonably have 
done more to better manage the claim. If it had Miss Gs frustration would likely have been 
avoided. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Putting things right
I require Tesco to pay Miss G £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman