DRN-3955533
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a claim he made for storm 
damage to his roof without coming out to inspect it. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, UKI declined Mr Ts claim because it said no storm 
occurred on or around the reported date of loss. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought UKIs decision was correct. She said 
if no storm could be identified then it was fair and reasonable for UKI to decline the claim for 
storm damage.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
When making a claim under a buildings insurance policy, the onus is first on the policyholder 
to show that an insured event has most likely occurred and caused the damage being 
claimed for. In this case, that means Mr T first needs to demonstrate, on the balance of 
probabilities, that his property has suffered damage which was most likely caused by an 
identifiable one-off storm event.
When our service considers complaints about storm damage claims, we ask ourselves three 
questions. If the answer to any of these questions is no, its likely the claim will not succeed. 
The questions are:
Were storm conditions present on, or around, the reported date of loss?
Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by storms?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
When we consider question one, we need to be able to identify that a specific one-off storm 
event occurred in order to consider questions two and three and if it was that specific storm 
that caused the damage claimed for.
Mr T has reported a storm damage claim because he noticed water ingress to a ceiling and 
subsequently discovered damaged roofing felt, in the loft, beneath the roof. He says a storm 
at some point mustve damaged the roof, allowing water to get in and cause the damage.
UKI says it checked weather reports for the reported date of loss, and in the four weeks 
leading up to the date of loss, but was not able to identify a storm event within that time. 
Based on this, it declined Mr Ts claim as it has failed on question one above. If there was no 
storm present, then the damage could not have been caused by a storm.
Ive checked the weather reports myself and can confirm that no storm force weather events 
occurred within the timescale suggested by UKI. I also note that Mr T has not provided any 
alternative evidence which suggests that a storm occurred either. So, in these 
circumstances, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for UKI to decline Mr Ts claim 
without needing to inspect the roof. Particularly as UKI says Mr T also confirmed the roof 
had not been maintained in over 25 years  which would suggest the damage was more 
likely to be as a result of wear and tear (which is excluded), given that no storm occurred 
when he noticed the water damage to the ceiling. 
I appreciate Mr Ts desire for UKI to inspect his roof. But as no identifiable storm event has 
been demonstrated, and as Mr T doesnt have the optional accidental damage cover, there 
is no insured peril under which his claim for roof damage and/or water ingress could be 
considered under. So, I dont consider it unfair or unreasonable for UKI to decide an 
inspection wasnt required in these particular circumstances  when it is evident there is no 
claim to be made under Mr Ts policy.
If Mr T is able to obtain evidence which he feels demonstrates a specific one-off storm 
occurred, and caused the damage he is claiming for, he should provide this to UKI in the first 
instance, and I would expect UKI to consider it further. But based on the available evidence, 
Im persuaded no storm occurred and so UKIs claim decision is both in line with the policy 
terms and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ts frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about UK Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman