DRN-4010414
The complaint
Mr C has complained that he was mis-sold a business insurance policy by TBO Services 
Limited, trading as The Insurance Octopus (TBO). 
What happened
Mr C first took out his business insurance cover through TBO in 2017. He made a claim in 
March 2020 for losses arising from the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr Cs policy provided cover for business interruption losses resulting from the inability to 
use his business premises due to restrictions imposed following the occurrence of a 
notifiable disease within one mile of his premises. 
The insurer initially refused Mr Cs claim but after the Financial Conduct Authority Business 
Interruption test case, it agreed to cover the claim.  The claim was still outstanding when the 
policy was due to renew in September 2020. The claim was settled sometime later but the 
insurer reduced the settlement paid as it said Mr C was not insured for the correct amount. 
The policy that was issued in September 2020 included an endorsement that removed cover 
for communicable diseases. As a result, Mr C was unable to claim for losses caused by the 
later Government related restrictions imposed in November 2020 and January 2021. 
Mr C is very unhappy about the service provided by TBO and says TBO mis-sold the policy 
in September 2019 with the wrong indemnity cover and the September 2020, as it did not tell 
him that it excluded Covid-19 related claims. In fact, in a call on 14 September 2020, he was 
told there had been no change to the policy terms and he had cover for future Covid-19 
lockdowns. As a result of not having Covid-19 cover as needed, he received no settlement 
for the second and third claims and wants TBO to compensate him for the value of these 
claims (approximately £29,000). 
As these issues relate to different policy contracts, I am dealing with the sale of each policy 
separately. This decision relates only to the sale in September 2020. 
TBO accepts that it did not specifically highlight the exclusion of Covid-19 related claims at 
renewal in September 2020 and that it should have done. However, TBO said that even if it 
had pointed this out, there would have been no other policy at that time that would have 
provided cover for Mr Cs claims, as all insurers had put such exclusions in their policies by 
April 2020. TBO says it does not have any record of a call on 14 September 2020.
TBO also says that the insurer added the exclusion to the policy schedule, so it was clear to 
any policyholder. TBO says it sent the renewal documents to Mr C on 14 September 2020 
and provided a screenprint to show this. TBO offered £50 compensation to Mr C for not 
highlighting the Covid-19 exclusion but does not accept that it has caused M C the losses he 
claims.  
Mr C has made a number of points in support of the complaint. I have summarised the main 
points below:
On 14 September 2020, he spoke to TBO and asked specifically if there had been 
any changes to the cover and if he was still covered for any future lockdowns. TBO 
told him repeatedly there had been no changes and he would be covered. TBO now 
claims not to have a recording of this call. Without this call, we cannot reach a fair 
outcome on the complaint. 
He did not receive the policy documents in September 2020 and only received them 
in June 2021. 
The documents TBO says it sent in September 2020 were five pages less than in 
2021 after it found out the second and third claims were not covered. We should 
investigate why there is a discrepancy. 
TBO has lied throughout and denies the other call took place because it is 
detrimental to it.
The insurer told him that most policies excluded Covid-19 in 2020 but not all. He 
would have paid a higher premium to have such cover, given the situation at the 
time. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He was satisfied there was evidence that the 
renewal documents were sent to Mr C in September 2020. The Investigator agreed that TBO 
should have told Mr C that the policy cover had changed to exclude Covid-19 but he did not 
think this would have made any difference to Mr Cs position, as he did not think it was likely 
Mr C could have got any alternative policy that would have covered the second and third 
claims at that time. 
Because Mr C was not given the information he should have  been, the Investigator 
recommended that TBO pay £200 compensation for this. 
Mr C does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear information about the cover 
being provided, in order to put them in a position where they can make an informed choice 
about the insurance they are buying. This includes providing clear information about the 
main cover and any significant terms. The more significant, unusual or onerous a policy term 
the greater the effort to bring it to the customers attention should be, so that a customer can 
understand easily how the policy will work in practice. 
If the sellers are also making a recommendation or advising a customer to take a particular 
policy, then they also have to take steps to try and ensure the policy is suitable for them, or 
explain if it is not. However, this was not an advised sale and was sold on an information 
only basis. 
I have seen emails between Mr C and TBO regarding the renewal of his policy in September 
2020 and listened to two phone call recordings from the time as well. In the emails and 
phone calls, it is clear Mr C was reluctant to renew with the same insurer, given their 
response to his claim for the lockdown in March 2020. TBO therefore looked for an 
alternative. 
I have listened to the recording of a call in the morning of 14 September 2020, when a TBO 
agent contacted Mr C to say it had an alternative quote but it was considerably more 
expensive than the one from his existing insurer. Mr C was hesitant but agreed to renew with his existing insurer, as the agent pointed out it was the last day of the policy and so he 
needed cover in place. There was no mention in that conversation of any other call that 
same day, or before, in which Mr C checked the disease cover. And Mr C did not ask about 
the disease cover provided under the alternative policy. The agent and Mr C did agree to 
speak again the next day, as the courts judgment on the test case was due to be 
announced the following day which was going to have an impact on the outcome of Mr Cs 
first claim.  
Mr C is adamant that he spoke to another agent on 14 September 2020 who assured him 
there was the same disease cover under the new policy. TBO has been asked for any other 
telephone records it has and it says there was no other call on or around 14 September 
2020 with the agent Mr C has named or anyone else. Mr C thinks this is because it is 
covering this up. 
Mr C also says he was not sent the renewal documents with the exclusion on and we should 
fully investigate why the documents supposedly sent to him In September 2020 have a 
different number of pages than other years. However, TBO has provided evidence that the 
documents were sent.  
Given this, it is difficult for me to be certain about what happened. However, I do not think I 
have to make a definite finding on whether another call took place on 14 September 2020 or 
the policy documents were sent. 
I say this because TBO has already accepted that it did not provide Mr C with the 
information it should have done before the policy renewed. I agree that it did not do so, as it 
should have highlighted the change in cover even if it were on the policy schedule. 
I therefore have to consider what impact this had on Mr C, if any. The assessment of the 
impact is the same whether or not the conversation on 14 September 2020 took place or not 
and whether Mr C received the policy documents or not. 
TBO says that no other policies that would have provided cover for the impact of Covid-19 
were available at that time anyway. Mr C says the insurer told him that some were still 
available. 
I have listened to the call between Mr C and his insurer in which this is discussed. The 
insurer does say that a very few of its policies did not have this exclusion added in 2020. The 
agent said that there were some isolated cases or where particular schemes didnt add such 
an exclusion for Covid-19 claims because it wouldnt have made sense to add it in. 
By September 2020 most insurers Im aware of had taken steps to change their policy 
wordings to ensure that their policies did not provide any cover for Covid-19 from the next 
renewal. So I think it is unlikely there would have been any alternative policy that would have 
been available in September 2020 that would have provided Mr C with cover for Covid-19 
related claims. 
Overall, I do not think there is sufficient evidence that Mr C would have been able to obtain a 
policy in September 2020 that would have covered his second and third claims. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but I do not therefore consider that TBO is 
responsible for him not being able to claim for his losses. 
I do agree with the Investigator that if Mr C had been provided with the information he should 
have been in September 2020, he would have been saved some inconvenience. So I agree 
that the sum of £200, in addition to the £50 already offered by TBO, is appropriate 
compensation for this. My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require TBO Services Limited to pay Mr C the total sum of 
£250 (to include the £50 it already offered) compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of his insurance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman