DRN-4007334
Complaint
Mr N has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore 
irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr N with a first loan for £2,000.00 in September 2017. 
This loan had an APR of 249.5% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £5,645.04, including interest, fees and charges of £3,645.04, was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £235. This loan was repaid in full with some of 
the proceeds from loan 2.
Everyday Loans provided Mr N with loan 2 for £4,000.00 in March 2018. £2,200.70 of the 
funds went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan had an APR of 
191.5% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£13,819.68, including interest, fees and charges of £9,819.68, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of just under £400. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ns complaint and he thought Everyday Loans ought to 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr N with either of his loans. So he thought that 
Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed. So the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr N could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before these loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr N already had a 
significant amount of existing debt as well as an outstanding county court judgement at the 
time of loan 1. And the loans which should have been consolidated with some of the funds 
from loan 1 were still outstanding at the time of loan 2. 
Furthermore, Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure 
calculation for these loans showed that they would be taking Mr N right to the margin of his 
disposal income. And this was in the face of his increasing indebtedness in the period 
between loan 1 and loan 2 being taken out and the fact that the repayments to these loans 
were going to take up a significant proportion of his income. 
Im also shocked to see that more than half the funds to loan 2 went towards settling the 
outstanding balance for loan 1. Im incredulous at this turn of events because the settlement 
figure was more than the amount Mr N was advanced in the first place. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr N has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ns financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ns version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ns existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided these loans to            
Mr N. As Everyday Loans provided Mr N with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr N ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr N lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr N
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr N by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr N paid on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr N to the date of settlement
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mr N made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £4,000.00 originally lent. Any 
compensation due for loan 1 should also be used to reduce the amount Mr N owes 
on loan 2. If, after all adjustments have been carried out, Mr N will have ended up 
paying more than £4,000.00 then Everyday Loans should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr N;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr N to the date of settlementany and all adverse information recorded about loan 1 should be removed from      
Mr Ns credit file. If no outstanding balance remains on loan 2 after all adjustments 
have been made, all adverse information Everyday Loans recorded about this loan 
should also be removed from Mr Ns credit file.
If an outstanding balance does remain once all adjustments have been made, 
Everyday Loans should get in contact with Mr N to arrange an affordable payment 
plan. Id also remind Everyday Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance and 
due consideration, in the event it intends to collect on an outstanding balance and it 
be the case that Mr N is experiencing financial difficulty. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman