DRN-2416356
The complaint
Mrs J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs J took out a mortgage in 1984. At that stage, she didnt take out any PPI.
When Mrs J arranged a further advance in 1992, to pay for some home improvements, she 
also took out PPI.
That policy was updated in 1993 and new PPI terms and conditions replaced the policy 
shed taken out. 
In 1996 Mrs J was sold a new PPI policy. 
When our adjudicator first investigated, he just looked at the PPI sale in 1996 as it wasnt 
clear then that Mrs J had any PPI set up before that date. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs J didnt agree with our adjudicators view. Mrs J mainly said the PPI wasnt explained to 
her as being optional  and it wasnt something she wanted or needed. She also sent us 
information showing that she had PPI set up prior to 1996.
So another adjudicator followed this up with Halifax and investigated what had happened 
when Mrs J was sold PPI in 1992.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold that complaint either. 
But Mrs J still feels strongly that it wasnt made clear to her in 1992 that the loan application 
and the PPI policy were actually separate products and that the PPI policy was optional. She 
told us she didnt need PPI as she had excellent work benefits and savings she couldve 
relied on if necessary. Also her husband had secure employment, along with a good salary 
and she told us that he couldve helped with the mortgage payments if required. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen so far, Im not planning to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill 
explain why.
1992 
Mrs J recalls that when she took out the PPI alongside a further advance she arranged this 
at a Halifax branch. So even though Halifax cant say for certain how it sold the PPI I think 
thats probably what happened.   
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mrs J bought this PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mrs J to remember all the details of a conversation that happened such 
a long time ago. So what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her 
complaint. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.
Mrs Js mortgage had already been running for some years without PPI. So at the time, 
I think she wouldve known that having PPI wasnt required as part of her mortgage. 
Theres nothing mentioned on the application form that Mrs J completed to get the extra 
borrowing she wanted that wouldve led her to think that having PPI wasnt optional. 
And Ive seen the separate application form Mrs J completed to have the PPI added on to 
her mortgage account. Shes provided personal information and answered questions 
designed to see if she qualified for PPI. And shes signed the form at the end to say she 
wishes to apply for the cover.
Even if she hadnt wanted PPI at the start of her mortgage, as Mrs J was now borrowing 
more money, I can see why she mightve decided she now wanted to protect her monthly 
repayments. The mortgage was a significant financial commitment, repayable over a 
substantial number of years. Mrs Js home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than she had 
otherwise. 
I've taken into account that one of Mrs Js main complaints is that if shed realised PPI was 
optional she wouldnt have taken it. But I can see that, in addition to covering her mortgage 
monthly repayments, she also applied for some extra benefit to cover other related 
household costs as well. So, whilst Im sure Mrs J is certain about what shes told us, the 
other information I've seen doesn't support what she says. 
I can completely understand why Mrs J mightve forgotten some of these details now. But, 
based on all the information I've seen, on balance I think that Halifax made Mrs J aware at 
the time that the policy was optional and that she chose to have it.
The records Halifax kept dont show how it sold the PPI to Mrs J. So, in fairness to her, it 
looked at her mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended PPI during 
the meeting Mrs J recalled at a Halifax branch. Given the lack of paperwork showing how 
Halifax sold the PPI to Mrs J, I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it 
imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, 
it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.  
Looking at what Mrs J has told us about her circumstances at the time I think the policy 
wouldve been a suitable recommendation. 
Mrs J was eligible for the cover. Mrs J told us she was entitled to 6 months' full sick pay 
followed by half pay for 6 months.
Halifax cant provide us with a policy document that goes back to 1992. Looking at the 
paperwork that Halifax sent Mrs J in 1992 it looks to me like that policy mightve provided 
cover for up to 24 months per claim if Mrs J was too sick to work or if she lost her job and 
was involuntarily unemployed. If thats right, then the policy wouldve paid out for significantly longer than Mrs J could've 
depended on her employer to pay her sick pay. 
Even if Mrs J wouldve only been covered for up to 12 months per accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim (which is what the earliest available policy document shows), this 
doesnt mean that the PPI was unsuitable for her needs.
I say this because if the policy paid out in full for up to 12 months per accident and sickness 
claim, it still would have provided better protection than Mrs J couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs J with a 
useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled and she wouldve only been on half pay after 
being off work sick for 6 months. 
So, this meant the policy offered Mrs J more protection than she had if shed just been 
relying on the employer. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs J if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
I dont know if Mrs J wouldve always had savings she couldve relied on if shed needed to 
make a claim. And, bearing in mind that it appears she didnt put all her money towards 
keeping down the cost of borrowing, I think shed have valued the protection PPI offered if it 
meant she could keep her savings intact to provide financial security or to spend elsewhere.  
And having PPI provided more reliable cover than relying on anyone else to help out in the 
event of money problems as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think PPI was suitable for her.
There were policy exclusions and limitations. But it doesnt look as if that affected Mrs J. So, 
I dont think having more information about those things the policy didnt cover wouldve put 
her off taking it out. 
I dont know if Mrs J understood what the monthly cost of the PPI would be  its possible it 
was shown on the application she completed to take out the insurance. But the copy I've 
seen isnt very clear and I cant see whether this box was completed. However, Halifax wrote 
to Mrs J shortly after the policy was set up with details of the monthly cost of the insurance. 
So Mrs J wouldve been able to see this information and the monthly premium payable 
seems to have been acceptable to her at the time. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for Mrs J. It looks 
like Mrs J also took out extra cover over and above the amount needed to protect her 
mortgage monthly repayments. So it doesnt look like keeping costs down was a priority for 
her.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. 
But I think Mrs J still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been better informed 
as PPI gave her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped her buying it. 
1993In 1993 it looks like Halifax  amended the terms and conditions of the PPI Mrs J had taken 
out. Halifax wrote to her to confirm this was happening and to advise her that the monthly 
premium would increase.
It said: If you wish to continue to enjoy the peace of mind provided by Mortgage Payments 
Protector you need take no action as we will arrange to collect the new premium from July 
1993. If you have any questions in the meantime please call into your local Halifax branch, 
well be happy to help you.
So I think Mrs J wouldve understood from this that it was up to her to choose whether or not 
she wanted the PPI to continue. And she couldve taken this up with Halifax if the PPI hadnt 
been something she wanted to pay for. I've seen nothing to suggest this happened.
I've checked the new policy terms that applied. In 1993, this new policy protected Mrs J 
against accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. Her 
circumstances were substantially the same as far as I can see. So, for the reasons I've set 
out more fully above, I think the new policy continued to offer her useful benefits. 
So what happened in 1993 doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
1996 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide all the paperwork that shows how the PPI was taken out 
in 1996. But I dont think thats surprising after so long and its not a reason for me to uphold 
the complaint. 
Halifax wrote to Mrs J enclosing her new certificate of insurance and a booklet setting out 
the new policy conditions. It confirmed Mrs Js direct debit arrangement and invited her to 
contact her Halifax branch if she had any queries. 
I've also seen a copy of a letter Halifax sent to Mrs J at the same time  which says: I am 
writing to confirm that your new payment collection details are as stated below. And one of 
the things listed is: MRI Premium of 11.80 (this is what Halifax now called its PPI).  
In 1996 Halifax issued a new PPI policy  but it continued to offer broadly the same cover 
that Mrs J already had set up  it covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment for 
up to 12 months per claim. 
And repeat claims were possible  so the policy provided long term cover whilst Mrs J was 
paying for her home.
Her circumstances remained substantially the same as far as I can see. So the policy 
continued to offer her a range of useful benefits. 
Looking at the terms in the 1996 policy, I can see that Mrs J was eligible for the insurance 
and the policy terms wouldnt have made it particularly difficult for her to make a claim. Mrs J 
wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
So as far as I can see, she couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered.
PPI couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or 
sickness. 
So the PPI continued to provide better protection than she couldve relied on getting through 
her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay, giving her a useful benefit at what mightve 
been a difficult time if she was too unwell to be able to work. 
This PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs J lost her job 
and became unexpectedly unemployed. 
So, although I've thought carefully about everything Mrs J told us about the other ways she 
couldve covered her mortgage monthly repayments, I still think PPI was suitable for her. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way Halifax sold PPI to Mrs J. 
But I think Mrs J still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her useful protection in her particular situation.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs J paid for it. 
But Halifax has already offered* to give Mrs J back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think 
it needs to do anything more. 
*I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs J.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs J has told me that she recalls the meeting in 1992 very well and she continues to 
believe that the policy was mis-sold. 
She says she was led to believe PPI was necessary to secure the loan and it wasnt sold as 
a separate product  and that PPI was updated by Halifax as a matter of course in 1993 and 
1996.
Halifax hasnt made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
I've taken carefully into account everything that Mrs J has said in response to my provisional 
decision. 
But for the reasons I've explained more fully in my provisional decision, what she says 
doesnt change what I think about this case.
So, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint.
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman