DRN-2761510
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services (BH) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BH. At the point of supply the car was around 5 years old and had covered around 
74,500 miles.
Within the first few days of getting the car, Mr S experienced issues with the air suspension 
system. The car was returned to the supplying dealer an offside front air spring was 
replaced.
Mr S experienced further issues with the car suspension system in April 2020. He reported 
the fault to BH and asked to reject the car.
BH started to investigate Mr Ss complaint. In the meantime, Mr S had repairs carried out to 
the suspension in June 2020. Further repairs were carried out in September 2020 following 
more issues with the suspension.
BH spoke to the garage which carried out repairs in June 2020. It said there were issues 
with the suspension and that because the parts required were on back order, Mr S had 
supplied the parts himself. The nearside rear high sensor was repaired. The garage who 
carried out the repairs told BH that the issue wasnt related to the repairs carried out in 
October 2018.
Based on what the garage told them, BH rejected Mr Ss request to reject the car. It 
acknowledged that he had experienced issues with the suspension in October 2018 soon 
after the point of supply and offered compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset caused 
to Mr S at that time.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence that the recent 
issues with the car were related to the repairs in 2018, or that the repairs following the MOT 
in October 2019 were related to the previous fault. The investigator said there wasnt any 
evidence to show that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr S didnt agree. He felt that the faults with the suspension system were a known issue with 
the type of car and that because the fault had occurred so soon after the point of supply and 
had re-occurred, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BH supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term that 
it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr S  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car, as 
opposed to faults caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 30 days, a consumer 
can ask to exercise a short term right to reject. Within the first 6 ninths, if a fault occurs, its 
presumed that the fault was present of developing at the point of supply and its generally up 
to the business to put things right. A business is allowed one attempt to repair a fault. If the 
repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Mr S and BH disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. In order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and decide, 
on the balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
I can see that Mr S experienced issues with the suspension within a very short time of 
getting the car. The information provided shows that repairs were carried out to the offside 
front suspension at no cost to Mr S. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr S asked to exercise 
his short term right to reject the car at this time. So, it follows that he accepted a repair.
Based on what Ive seen, there were no issues with the suspension for the next 12 months. 
Im aware that the car failed its MOT in October 2109, with a major fail relating to the offside 
front lower suspension arm ball joint being excessively worn. At this time the mileage was 
recorded as 87,765, meaning that Mr S had covered around 13,000 miles since the point of 
supply. There isnt any evidence to suggest that the suspension arm was excessively worn 
at the point of supply  if it had been, I would have expected the MOT carried out in 
September 2018 to identify this. However, there were no fails or advisories on that MOT. Nor 
is there any evidence to suggest that the worn suspension is related to the repairs carried 
out in October 2018. So, it seems likely that the suspension arm became worn during the 
course of the 12 months from the point of supply, which I dont think is unusual given the age 
of the car and the mileage covered over this period. 
Ive looked at the job cards for the repairs which were carried out in June 2020 and 
September 2020. These show that the nearside front height sensor was replaced in June, 
and the nearside rear height sensor was replaced in September. Theres no evidence to link 
these faults to the fault which was repaired in October 2018. The repairing garage has stated 
that the parts repaired are considered to be wear and tear items. I can see that between the 
point of supply and the June 2020 repairs, Mr S had covered around 20,000 miles and the 
car was coming up for 7 years old. So OI think its to be expected that some component parts 
would require repair or replacement in a car of this age and mileage as a result of general 
wear and tear. 
Because the faults in June 2020 and September 2020 arose outside of the first 6 months, 
under the relevant legislation its up to Mr S to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
So, for instance, if Mr S had been able to produce an independent report which said that the 
faults would have been present or developing at the point of supply, then this would be evidence which I could take into account in considering whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. However, theres no engineers report which says this, and the 
available evidence (from the repairing garage) clearly says that the faults are due to wear 
and tear, which isnt something Im able to hold BH responsible for. 
Based on everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the recent 
faults were present or developing at the point of sale. Nor is there any evidence to persuade 
me that the recent faults were related to the first repairs carried out in October 2018, or that 
these repairs were unsuccessful.  So Im unable to conclude that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I appreciate that Mr S wants to rely on a class action in the United States as evidence that 
there is an issue with the suspension in this type of car. however, Im only able to consider 
the facts of this particular complaint, in conjunction with the relevant legislation, so the class 
action isnt something Im able to take into account.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman