DRN-4258721
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy because Santander UK Plc (Santander) declined to refund £320 which 
she lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail of 
what happened here. But, in summary, both parties accept that in February 2023 Miss B 
made three payments totalling £320 to buy trainers, but she never received the goods. 
In February 2023, Miss B was on a social media platform and came across a profile selling 
premium branded trainers. She saw some trainers she was interested in, and said the price 
seemed reasonable but not unrealistic at £80 a pair. The profile had over 80,000 followers 
and linked to their website which she said looked genuine, it had five-star reviews on it 
purporting to be from satisfied customers and even had a returns page. Believing the 
company to be legitimate, she decided to buy a pair of trainers and sent a payment of £80. 
After sending the initial payment of £80, Miss B received a message to say they had not 
received the funds, and that she needed to send the payment again which would push 
through £160 to them, and they would then refund her £80. She was then told she had used 
an incorrect payment reference, so she would have to send a further payment of £160. Miss 
B expressed concerns and told the seller that she was scared throughout this process. After 
she sent over the third payment, they did not send her any trainers or refund, and stopped 
responding to her messages. It was at this point she realised she had fallen victim to a scam 
and contacted Santander. 
Santander investigated Miss Bs complaint and issued its final response in April 2023, not 
upholding her complaint. In summary, they did not accept liability because they did not think 
that Miss B had met the requisite level of care when she was making the payments to 
ensure she was sending them to a legitimate fashion company. They also said they had 
provided her with effective warnings at the time of the payments. They said they had 
contacted the receiving bank, but unfortunately they had not been able to retrieve any of her 
funds, and the receiving bank did not accept any liability here. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Miss B brought her complaint to our service and one of 
our investigators looked into what had happened. They recommended that the complaint 
should not be upheld, so Santander should not refund the money that Miss B had lost. In 
summary, they agreed that Miss B had not done sufficient checks to have a reasonable 
basis for believing that she was dealing with a legitimate company. Miss B remained 
dissatisfied, and as no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Service 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have considered whether 
Santander should reimburse some or all of the money Miss B lost in line with the provisions 
of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to 
protect Miss B from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The CRM Code 
Santander has agreed to adhere to the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. It sets 
out standards that banks, such as Santander, are expected to meet in terms of protecting 
their customers from financial harm. But it also sets out expectations that a customer should 
meet, too. As a starting point, a customer should receive a full refund if they fall victim to an 
authorised push payment scam such as this one. 
There appears to be no dispute that Miss B was the victim of an authorised push payment 
scam here. She thought she was sending funds to purchase a pair of trainers but instead the 
funds went to a scammer. But, Miss B would not be entitled to a full refund if Santander can 
fairly and reasonably demonstrate, as they have asserted, that Miss B has failed to meet the 
requisite level of care under one of more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Miss B have a reasonable basis for belief? 
Unfortunately, I think the evidence suggests that Miss B did not have a reasonable basis for 
believing that she was dealing with a legitimate business when she made the transfer. I say 
this because: 
The payment method the company requested ought reasonably to have caused 
concern for Miss B. They asked her to send funds to a personal bank account, not a 
business account, via bank transfer. The seller claimed to be a legitimate business - 
so I would have expected Miss B to query why she was sending funds to a personal 
account. 
A legitimate business is more likely to ask for a card payment, and the warnings 
Santander provided when Miss B was setting up the payment even suggested that 
card payments were more appropriate than bank transfers. 
Miss B was also told to select an incorrect payment method when sending funds to 
ensure the money got through  it seems rather suspicious that a legitimate business 
would ask a customer to in effect lie to their bank.  
There were further red flags about the payment method here  the fashion website 
said it did not accept PayPal due to an incident and that they do not take payments 
from one of the large high street banks without any explanation. It seems highly 
unusual for a legitimate website to ask for bank transfers to begin with, let alone for 
them to have asked for funds to be sent avoiding certain legitimate businesses. The website said the business address was a central London location, not a full 
address. The website said items could be collected from there but only if they 
ordered over £600 and only if they paid 50% upfront  which again seems highly 
irregular compared to normal business practices. 
The five star reviews were shown on the website itself  these were not verified 
reviews from a trusted third party platform. 
Further to this, whilst the price was not too good to be true, it was around 20% 
cheaper at least than the specific style and colours that Miss B had ordered. This 
alone may not have been cause for concern, but when combined with the factors 
noted above I think this should have added to her suspicions. 
Moving on to the subsequent payments, Miss B was asked to send funds to push 
through the funds she had already sent. The story she was given was rather 
implausible  she was told that they had not received her funds but somehow 
sending more would push the funds through to them and then she would receive her 
trainers and a refund. Miss B herself repeatedly expressed concerns and fear about 
what was going on, asked whether she could send less, asked if they could explain 
how it worked  so it is clear that she was not satisfied this was legitimate. I have 
carefully considered the messages between Miss B and the scammer and I do not 
think that they said anything that really explained where or how her money was 
caught up in the first instance, or why sending the same amount of money again 
would push this through. She was told to trust the person she was messaging with 
as they were a legitimate business. I think at this stage Miss B ought to have 
considered further checks, such as contacting her bank or a trusted third party. 
However, instead of doing further checks, speaking with her bank or refusing to send 
over funds, Miss B then sent a further £160. 
Considering the above, I think it would have been reasonable for Miss B to have acted with 
more caution here prior to sending funds. I think Santander acted fairly in saying that Miss B 
did not have a reasonable basis for believing that she was paying a legitimate company, and 
by extension it was reasonable to conclude that this exception to refund under the CRM 
code was applicable in this case. 
Did Miss B ignore an effective warning? 
Santander in their submissions to this service, referred to dynamic questions and warnings 
that Miss B would have seen at the point she was making the payments. And under the 
CRM Code, Santander can be required to present an effective warning where they identify a 
scam risk. But I dont consider that the payments made by Miss B were so out of the 
ordinary that the bank ought to have believed there was a scam risk. The amount sent 
wasnt sufficiently unusual in size, nor do I consider there to have been any concerning 
features of the payments to put Santander on notice that Miss B was at risk of financial 
harm. And so, I dont believe Santander needed to do more than it did in terms of providing 
warnings about making the payment. 
Should Santander have done more to protect Miss B?
In addition to their responsibilities under the CRM code, when Miss B made the payments, 
Santander should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
and out of character transactions or other signs that might indicate that Miss B was at risk of 
fraud or financial harm (amongst other things). However, as outlined above, there was 
nothing about the payments that ought reasonably to have alerted Santander that Miss B 
was at risk of fraud or financial crime  so I do not think that they needed to intervene with 
the payment at the time it was being made. 
Recovery I have also considered whether Santander could have done more to try to recover the 
money once it had been told of the scam. We would expect a business to take reasonable 
steps to try and recover the money from the bank it was sent to, with urgency, after their 
customer notifies them that they fell victim to a scam. Santander did try to recover the funds 
Miss B lost  they notified the receiving bank within less than an hour of Miss B reporting the 
scam. Unfortunately, the receiving account had already been emptied so no funds were 
available to recover. So I do not think that Santander could have done anything further to 
recover her funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and require Santander UK Plc to do 
nothing further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman