DRN-4151688
The complaint
Mr L, a sole trader, is unhappy with several aspects of how Barclays Bank UK PLC have 
administered his business accounts, including that they defaulted his Bounce Back Loan for 
non-payment and that they restricted his access to his BBL and to one of his Business 
Current Accounts.
What happened
Mr L held several business accounts with Barclays. In May 2020, Mr L successfully applied 
to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and received the loan funds into a Business 
Current Account (BCA). Mr L then moved the BBL funds to a different BCA which he also 
held with Barclays, and then transferred the funds to an account he held with another bank.
Monthly payments for the BBL became due in June 2021. A direct debt was in place to apply 
for the monthly payments from the BCA, account number ending 272, to which the loan 
funds had been received (272). But there werent any funds present in 272 to make the 
BBL payments. And while the payments for June and July were taken from 272, this placed 
272 in an overdrawn position as a result. The August and September BBL payments were 
also applied for via the direct debit, but these were returned unpaid because of the lack of 
funds and overdrawn position of 272, meaning that the BBL also fell into a position of arrears 
for those two months. 
Mr L noticed that he couldnt view either the BBL or 272 online. He spoke with Barclays on 
13 October 2021 and was told that online access to the accounts would be restored after he 
cleared the arrears present on both accounts. Mr L then made payments to clear the arrears 
on both the BBL and 272 accordingly. Mr L also asked for the direct debit set up on 272 to 
be cancelled and for a new direct debit to be set up for the BBL payments from another of 
his Barclays BCAs  account number ending 427 (427). Mr L then received letters from 
Barclays which led him to believe a direct debit had been set up on 427 as hed requested.
Even though Mr L had cleared the arrears on his accounts, his online access to them wasnt 
restored. This meant that Mr L couldnt monitor the status of his accounts and he made 
several manual payments to his BBL in the absence of this online access. However, some 
months later, Mr L discovered that Barclays had defaulted his BBL for non-payment. Mr L 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Barclays responded and said that on the 13 October phone call, Mr L had been advised that 
after the BBL and 272 account arrears were cleared, hed need to call Barclays back to 
request that online access for those accounts be restored  which Mr L didnt do. 
Barclays said that Mr L had also been told on that call that no new direct debit instruction 
had set up on 427 at the time of the call, but that a request to do so had been raised and that 
Mr L had agreed monitor 427 and the BBL to check that payments for BBL were being 
received. Following this, no direct debit from 427 was set up, which meant payments for the 
BBL werent made, and Mr L hadnt contacted Barclays about this. As such, Barclays didnt 
feel that theyd acted unfairly by following the account arrears process they had, which 
resulted in the eventual defaulting of the BBL for non-payment.
However, Barclays did acknowledge that Mr L had received some letters from Barclays 
which may have given him the impression that a direct debit had been set up from 427 to 
make payments to the BBL. Barclays apologised to Mr L for this and offered to pay £150 to 
him as compensation for any trouble or upset this may have caused. However, Barclays also 
noted that theyd sent several letters to Mr L which specified that payments for the BBL 
werent being received, and so they continued to feel that they hadnt acted unfairly by 
defaulting the BBL, even in acknowledgement of the confusing letters Mr L had received. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response to Mr Ls 
complaint that Barclays had issued already represented a fair outcome to what had 
happened, and they didnt think Barclays should be asked to take any further action. Mr L 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr L has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr L for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr L notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr L and Barclays. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr L has explained that when he spoke with Barclays in October 2021, he asked for the 
direct debit from 272 to be cancelled and for a new direct debit from 427 to be set up. Mr L 
has also explained that following this call he received a direct debit mandate from Barclays 
which he returned to them in a pre-paid envelope to enable the new direct debit for the BBL 
payments from 427 to be put in place, and that after this he received letters from Barclays 
which indicated that a new direct debit had been set up accordingly.
Ive listened to the telephone call in question here, and while Barclays agent did confirm to 
Mr L that the direct debit from 272 had been cancelled, they also explained that it hadnt 
been possible to set up a new direct debit from 427 at that time. The agent then went on to 
explain to Mr L that theyd sent a request for a new direct debit from 427 to be put in place, 
but that Mr L should monitor the account to ensure that this had happened and that the next 
scheduled payment for the BBL had been made and that Mr L may need to call Barclays to 
make that payment manually if the direct debit wasnt set up as requested. And Mr L clearly 
acknowledges the agents instructions and agrees to do as the agent requested. Mr L has explained that following the phone call with the agent he received a direct debit 
mandate from Barclays which he completed and returned to them in a pre-paid envelope. 
But Barclays have no record of receiving such a mandate. Barclays do have record of 
sending a direct debit mandate to Mr L, but this was by secured message, and so didnt (and 
couldnt) include a pre-paid envelope. And notably, at other times during his correspondence 
with this service, Mr L has denied ever receiving a direct debit mandate from Barclays 
following the October 2021 phone call.
Given the above, I have doubts as to whether Mr L did complete and return a direct debit 
mandate to Barclays to instruct a new direct debit from 427. But if I accept that he did send 
such a mandate, it wasnt received by Barclays and no such direct debit was ever set up. 
And I feel it was Mr Ls responsibility  as the account holder  to have monitored both the 
BBL and 427 and to ensure that payments towards the BBL were being made  which is in 
line with what Barclays agent advised Mr L during the October 2021 phone call when they 
couldnt set up a new direct debit from 427 at that time.
Following the October 2021 phone call, no payments were made to the BBL in October, 
November, or December 2021. This led to the BBL falling into a position of arrears, and 
those arrears were never cleared by Mr L, which ultimately led to Barclays issuing a formal 
demand to Mr L in June 2022 and defaulting his BBL for non-payment. 
Mr L has demonstrated that, following the October 2021 phone call, he received a letter from 
Barclays dated 13 November 2021 which said: We have calculated that your repayment 
instalments will become £932.62 payable monthly. We will amend the amount of your direct 
debit, so you dont need to do anything. The new repayment will be effective from your 
repayment date 27 November 2021.
Mr L received a similar letter dated 13 January 2022. And Mr L contends that upon receiving 
these letters he was of the reasonable understanding that the direct debit to pay the BBL 
from 427 had been set up as hed requested, and that  to quote directly from the letters  
he didnt need to do anything. 
But Barclays also sent the following letters to Mr L  to the same address as the two letters 
described above which were received by Mr L  following the October 2021 phone call:
11 November 2021 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £931.20
11 December 2021 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £1,863.82
25 December 2021 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £1,836.82
13 January 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £1,859.08
27 January 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £1,859.08
12 February 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £1,856.27
26 February 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £1,856.27
14 March 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £2,786.25
27 March 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £1,851.99
12 April 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £1,837.80
28 April 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £2,764.20
15 May 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £2,764.20
29 May 2022 BBL missed payments letter Arrears of £3,687.10
24 June 2022 Formal Demand Notice
Its now apparent that the two contentious letters that Mr L received dated 13 November and 
13 January were auto-generated letters which notified Mr L on an amendment to the 
required monthly payment amount for the BBL  presumed to be being paid by direct debit  
in consideration of the missed payments on the account. I can appreciate how this may have been confusing for Mr L given the wording of the letters 
and that his online access to the BBL and 272 remained restricted. But as explained, I feel 
that the fact that Mr Ls online access to those accounts remained restricted was because  
Mr L hadnt acted to unblock the accounts by contacting Barclays as hed been told he would 
need to, and which he acknowledged and agreed to do during the October 2021 phone call.
I also note that by the time Mr L had received the second confusing letter, dated 13 January, 
hed received four BBL missed payments letters  11 November, 11 & 25 December, and 13 
January  and as such I feel that its reasonable to have expected Mr L to have contacted 
Barclays and to have clarified the position of his BBL  especially in the continuing absence 
of being able to view the accounts online. 
Correspondingly, I also dont feel that the receipt of the two confusing letters  received as 
they were by Mr L in the midst of and in conjunction with the receipt of more frequently 
received missed payment letters  should have led Mr L to form any reasonable belief that 
he didnt need to take any action regarding his BBL and to ignore the more frequently 
received missed payment letters that Barclays were sending to him.
Mr L has explained that he made manual payments to the BBL from January 2022 onwards, 
in the absence of being able to view the BBL online, and notes that he made two payments 
in November 2021 which should have cleared the arrears that were present at that time. 
But unfortunately, its clear that while Mr L did transfer an amount from 427 in November 
2021, he didnt transfer this amount to the BBL  which would have addressed the arrears  
but instead made the transfer to 272, the BCA where the direct debit had been originally set 
to pay the BBL, but which had been cancelled by Mr L the month before, during the October 
2021 phone call. As such, these payments didnt clear the BBL arrears, which remained 
present as per the subsequent missed payment letters sent to Mr L by Barclays.
In consideration of all the above, I feel that what happened was that Mr L initially fell into 
arrears on the BBL and into an unauthorised overdraft on 272 because he didnt ensure that 
the necessary money was present in 272 for the payments for the BBL to be paid. And 
because these accounts fell into arrears, online access to them was restricted by Barclays.
Mr L noticed that his online access to those accounts was restricted, and he called Barclays 
in October 2021. And shortly afterwards he cleared the arrears present on the BBL and 272 
so that both accounts were brought back into line. 
Also on this call, Mr L asked for the direct debit from 272 to be cancelled and a new direct 
debit set up to make the BBL payments from 427. But while Barclays agent was able to 
cancel the direct debit from 272, they couldnt set up the new direct debit from 427 and told 
Mr L to monitor his accounts and to call Barclays back if the direct debit wasnt set up and if 
the payment wasnt made  which Mr L didnt do.
Mr L feels that he was hampered by being unable to view his accounts online, because they 
remained restricted. But Mr L was also told on the October call that he would need to call 
Barclays back after hed cleared the arrears on the BBL and the overdrawn balance on 272 
to ask that these accounts be unblocked so that he could access them again online  but Mr 
L didnt do this.
Mr L then didnt make the payments to the BBL in October, November, or December 2021, 
which meant the BBL fell into arrears. And while Mr L was making manual payments to the 
BBL following these months, so that the amount of arrears present on the BBL didnt continue to grow, he didnt clear the arrears that had accrued on the BBL, which eventually 
led Barclays to default the account for prolonged non-payment in June 2022 as they did. 
In consideration of all the above, I dont feel that Barclays have done anything wrong or 
acted unfairly towards Mr L by defaulting his account as they did here. And this is because 
the BBL was in a position of multiple arrears for several months. 
Instead, I feel that whats happened here is that Mr L hasnt managed his Barclays business 
accounts as would reasonably be expected of him and in line with his responsibilities as an 
account holder. This includes that Mr L didnt take the steps required of him to be able to 
view his accounts online, didnt act to ensure that the required payments for his BBL had 
been received, and didnt respond to the many BBL arrears letters that he received from 
Barclays. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ls complaint.
In their response to Mr Ls complaint, Barclays acknowledged that the letters Mr L had 
received in November 2021 and January 2022, which incorrectly indicated that he didnt 
need to do anything regarding his BBL direct debit, may have been confusing, and they 
offered to make a payment of £125 to Mr L as compensation for any trouble or upset he may 
have incurred because of this. 
Mr L has asked how Barclays can uphold his complaint on this basis but not uphold it in full 
and how Barclays can maintain that the defaulting of his BBL was fair. But as Ive explained 
above, while the two letters Mr L received may have been confusing, they were received by 
him in conjunction with a greater number of other, contradictory letters, which confirmed that 
payments had been missed on the BBL and that Mr L needed act. 
As such, Im satisfied that the £150 that Barclays have offered Mr L here is a fair amount 
given that its solely for the trouble and upset Mr L may have incurred had he done what Im 
satisfied he could and reasonably should have upon the receipt of the confusing letters in 
conjunction with the BBL missed payment letters  which was to contact Barclays to confirm 
the status of the BBL as being in arrears  which Mr L didnt do.
Accordingly, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ls favour, Ill only be doing so to 
formally compel Barclays  should Mr L accept this final decision  to make the payment of 
£150 to him that theyve already offered to make. And as explained, I wont be upholding any 
further aspect of this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £150 to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman