DRN-2970872
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr B payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in June 
1991.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr B has agreed that he was given the option about whether to take PPI. But he says Bank 
of Scotland was wrong to recommend that he take the PPI. He says this is because, a 
couple of years later, he was made redundant when his nationalised industry was 
unexpected privatised. When he claimed on the PPI, he says he was told that he couldnt 
receive PPI benefits because hed received a redundancy package. He says he was also 
advised that he wouldnt have been able to claim under the sickness provisions because he 
had been entitled to good sick pay from his employer. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 30 years ago and, not surprisingly, none the original 
documents from the time are now available. This includes the actual policy that applied to 
Mr Bs PPI. 
At the ombudsman we have been provided with a large number of historic policies by Bank 
of Scotland (and other lenders and insurers). The longer ago the PPI was sold, the more 
patchy our library is. The Bank of Scotland policy we have, that is nearest June 1991, is the 
policy that came into force in January 1993. It would be unusual for a banks PPI policy to 
change significantly in such a short time  especially on the matters that are at issue in this 
complaint. I think its very likely the relevant clauses were similar or identical to the ones in 
force in June 1991. 
Looking at the 1993 policy, there is no reason why a customer wouldnt be entitled to 
benefits purely because they had received a redundancy package  and, of all the PPI 
policies Ive reviewed, Ive never come across one that would have that restriction. So either 
Mr Bs claim was wrongly turned down, or there was some other reason he wasnt able to 
claim. I can only speculate what that might be. But there is a provision (which is normal for 
such policies) that you dont get any benefit for the period when youre receiving pay in lieu 
of notice  for the purposes of this policy that period doesnt count as unemployment. And 
you also dont receive PPI benefits for the first 30 days of your unemployment (not including 
the period of payment in lieu). I dont know how long it was before Mr B was back in 
employment, but this may have been why Mr S was told he couldnt claim. But, if he had 
suffered long term unemployment, and he had become entitled to PPI benefits, these could 
have been useful. The actual redundancy pay-out (excluding an payment in lieu of notice) 
shouldnt have affected that claim.
Also, as is also usual, receiving employer sick pay wouldnt have stopped Mr B receiving PPI 
sickness benefits  he must have been given wrong information about that by someone. 
Ive thought about other reasons why recommending this PPI might have been wrong. But 
Ive not seen evidence it was an unsuitable recommendation, based on what Ive seen of 
Mr Bs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr B was eligible for the policy (in the sense of him meeting the criteria for 
the type of person the PPI was for); and so he would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. Whether this was then paid, would depend on the circumstances of 
the claim. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr B couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And he could have cancelled the policy if this 
changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr B would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and a recommendation was suitable. It 
would then be up to Mr B to decide whether he wanted to accept the recommendation and 
agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether Mr B took the PPI.  I say this because, in his circumstances, its 
unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman