DRN-1948010
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs M complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs M  took out a travel insurance policy in March 2019. They were due to travel 
abroad in June 2019.
Mrs M was later scheduled to begin fertility treatment. But due to the risk of Zika virus in the 
country she was travelling to, her treating doctors advised her not to travel. That was down 
to the increased risks to pregnant women and those trying to conceive. So Mr A and Mrs M 
cancelled their trip and made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Admiral turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of Mr A and Mrs Ms policy 
didnt cover claims due to planned fertility treatment. It also said the policy specifically 
excluded claims where a policyholder knew or ought reasonably to have known that there 
was a reason theyd need to cancel the trip.
Mr A and Mrs M werent happy with Admirals decision. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr A and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.  She acknowledged 
that the policy didnt strictly cover Mrs Ms situation. But she noted that the policy specifically 
excluded claims where a policyholder travelled against medical advice. So she felt Mrs M 
had been put in a position where she wouldnt be covered if she didnt travel, but also 
wouldnt be covered if she did. The investigator also didnt think Mr A and Mrs M wouldve 
been aware of the risks of Zika virus in the country they were travelling to when they booked 
their trip. Given Mr A and Mrs M were trying to conceive when they booked the trip, she 
thought it was unlikely theyd have done so if theyd been aware of possible risks.
Admiral disagreed. It said the risks of the Zika virus had been well documented in the media. 
So it felt Mr A and Mrs M shouldve been aware of these risks before booking the holiday. It 
also said that Mrs M didnt get in touch with it between booking the trip and her planned 
holiday to let her know she was having investigations and treatment was planned. It said if 
shed done so, it wouldve told her there was no cover for any investigations.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Admiral has treated Mr A and Mrs M fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules and guidance say insurers must consider claims promptly and 
fairly. And they shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Mr A and Mrs Ms policy sets out the insured events the cancellations section covers, such 
as illness or injury, or theft of a passport in the days before departure. The policy does cover 
cancellation due to complications of pregnancy, but fertility treatment doesnt fall within the 
definition of this. 
So I accept that beginning fertility treatment isnt strictly something the policy covers. But I 
dont think applying the policy terms strictly produces a fair and reasonable outcome here. 
Thats because the policy specifically excludes:
Any travel which is against a doctors advice (or would have been if you had sought such 
advice.)
Mrs M was advised not to travel on her planned trip by her treating doctors. So if shed done 
so, it seems she wouldnt have been covered by the policy. Effectively then, Mrs M wasnt 
covered for cancellation if she chose not to travel. But if she chose to travel as planned and 
not lose out on the costs of the trip, she wouldnt have been covered at all. In my view, this 
isnt fair or reasonable.
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Admiral to deal with this claim under the 
cancellation section of the policy, in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Admiral also thinks the claim should be specifically excluded under the following policy term:
An anticipated event or occurrence affecting your trip, which already happened, you knew 
would happen, or could reasonably have expected to happen, and you were aware of it 
when your insurance started or renewed, or the date when you booked your trip, whichever 
is later.
It says the risks of the Zika virus were well-known when Mr A and Mrs M booked their trip 
and took out the policy. It says that as they were trying to conceive, it was their responsibility 
to check any risk factors affecting the country they were planning to travel to. 
I asked Admiral to provide me with evidence that the risks of Zika virus were well-known and 
publicised in the area Mr A and Mrs M were due to travel to in 2019. Its pointed to the NHS 
website and a travel website which it says explained the risks. I dont think this is enough 
evidence to show they shouldve been aware of the risks of Zika virus though. Thats 
because it hasnt provided me with any evidence of widespread media reporting about the 
risks of Zika in that specific country in 2019, as there was a few years before when Zika and 
its risks were widely publicised in another area of the world. And there doesnt seem to have 
been any specific reason why theyd have checked a travel health website to a popular 
tourist destination.
So Admiral hasnt persuaded me that Mr A and Mrs M ought to have reasonably been aware 
that if they booked their trip, they might need to cancel it.
And like the investigator, I think, given its clear Mr A and Mrs M were trying to conceive a 
child, its highly unlikely theyd have booked somewhere they knew could be risky for them.  
Overall, Im not satisfied Admiral has shown that on balance, the exclusion clause should 
apply.
Ive gone on to think about whether Mr A and Mrs M ought to have let Admiral know about 
their planned investigations. So Ive considered the timeline of events and the policy terms.Admiral says the policy was taken out on 6 March 2019, although it seems the policy 
schedule wasnt issued until 12 March 2019. Mrs Ms GPs letter says that she had an 
appointment at the surgery on 12 March 2019, when a blood test was scheduled for the 
following day. The results of that test prompted a referral to a fertility clinic, where Mrs M was 
scheduled to begin treatment a few weeks later.
So at the point Admiral tells us Mrs M bought the policy, while it seems she and Mr A had 
been struggling to conceive, it doesnt look as though Mrs M had sought medical advice or 
been referred for any treatment. So I wouldnt have expected her to declare it to Admiral.
Admiral maintains Mrs M shouldve got in touch after she bought the policy to tell it that shed 
been referred to the fertility clinic. Ive looked at the policy terms relating to a change in 
health after a policy has started. These say:
After you have paid for this policy, you must tell us if any insured person is diagnosed with a 
new medical condition or if their health changes (including any changes in medication or 
admission to hospital), as this can affect the cover we provide.
If you do not tell us about any new medical conditions or changes to your health, you may 
not have the cover you need for any claims relating to a medical condition.
The policy defines a medical condition as: any disease, illness or injury you or any insured 
person has.
I dont think Mrs M wouldve considered being referred to a fertility clinic as a disease, illness 
or injury she needed to let Admiral know about. Admiral hasnt provided any medical 
evidence to suggest she was taking medication or had been admitted to hospital. And I dont 
think seeing a GP, having a blood test or being referred to a fertility clinic are a significant 
change in health Mrs M shouldve known she needed to disclose to Admiral.
This means I also dont think its fair for Admiral to turn down the claim on this basis.
Overall, I dont think Admiral has handled Mr A and Mrs Ms claim fairly and reasonably. So 
Im directing it to deal with their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to deal with Mr A and Mrs Ms claim, under the 
cancellation section of the policy, in line with the remaining terms and conditions. To any 
settlement paid, it must add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim 
until the date of settlement.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman