DRN-3111391
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have held him responsible for a loan 
taken out in his name, as well as some additional payments made from his account. Mr R 
says he didnt take out the loan or make the subsequent transactions. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr R says he discovered that a loan for £6,700 was taken out in his name 
with Barclays after having some issues trying to access his mobile banking app. In addition 
to this, he also noticed two transactions, an ATM cash withdrawal and an Assisted Service 
Device (ASD) cash withdrawal - totalling £2,000 - had also been made from his account on 
the same day as the loan funds had credited his account. Mr R has said that he didnt apply 
for the loan and he didnt make the two later transactions either.
In November 2019, Mr R says he visited a local Barclays branch in the hope of resolving the 
dispute. During his visit, he was told to call Barclays fraud department and was told by 
someone on the helpline that he wouldnt owe anything on the loan. However, after this visit, 
he continued to receive text messages and letters from Barclays explaining he had missed 
payments on the loan.
 
Mr R visited the local branch again in January 2020 and this time a complaint was raised in 
relation to the disputed loan and subsequent transactions. He received a final response to 
the complaint from Barclays in April 2020. In the response, Barclays told Mr R they were 
unable to accept his claim that the disputed loan and transactions were fraudulent. This was 
because their investigation showed the transactions were completed with Mr Rs genuine 
card and PIN and Barclays couldnt establish a point of compromise for any of the required 
information. Mr R had said only he knew his PIN and his card was in his possession at the 
time. Whilst Barclays said they couldnt accept Mr Rs fraud claim, they did offer him £450 for 
the inconvenience of failing to correctly understand his complaint when hed previously 
visited his local branch to raise the dispute as well as also acknowledging hed been 
provided with incorrect information.
 
Unhappy with the final response, Mr R brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. During her investigation, she was told the 
following:
What Mr R said  
Mr R explained he hadnt been in the area where the disputed transactions took 
place.
He lives alone and always had his bank card on him. He also confirmed no-one else 
wouldve had access to his card or other banking details.
He confirmed he did make a payment to a friend via his mobile banking on the same 
day as the disputed activity.
He had previously taken out a loan with Barclays in November 2018, which he was 
paying off each month. However, he was unable to continue paying this as Barclays 
then closed the account and merged it with the disputed loan. Hes since discovered 
that Barclays have applied negative information on his credit file due to his failure to 
make payments on the disputed loan. 
The situation has left him feeling extremely worried about his financial position.
What Barclays has said:
Mr R has told them he didnt apply for a loan, nor did he make any of the transactions 
after the loan had credited his account.
A mobile banking registration process was completed on Mr Rs profile a few days 
before the disputed activity took place. This resulted in the mobile banking facility 
being useable on a new device. For this to happen, Mr Rs card and PIN were 
required. Mr R has told them he didnt complete this mobile banking registration.
The person who carried out the ASD cash withdrawal wouldve needed to know 
additional information about Mr R in order to complete the transaction. This is in 
addition to needing access to Mr Rs genuine card and PIN. Theyve also confirmed 
the card used was the same one which had been issued to Mr R a few months earlier 
in July 2019 and also that there had been no changes to the PIN for the card as far 
back as September 2017.
A further transaction was made from the same ASD machine for £1,950 on the same 
day in the form of a transfer. But this was subsequently returned. Barclays has 
confirmed that Mr Rs genuine card and PIN wouldve been needed for this 
transaction as well. Theyre unable to provide any further information about this 
payment beyond this.
The disputed loan was a top up loan. This meant part of it was used to pay off the 
previous undisputed loan Mr R had taken out in November 2018. This also explains 
why a reduced amount of just under £6,000 ended up crediting Mr Rs account on 25 
October 2019 rather than the full £6,700. 
They made the decision to hold Mr R liable for both the loan and the transactions as 
they believe its most likely that he authorised both   theres no explanation for how 
various things such as his card and PIN were compromised.
Theyve confirmed an amount of just over £3,600 was moved out of Mr Rs account 
into an internal sundry account when the accounts were closed down. Theyve 
confirmed that this amount remains in the sundry account. 
Our investigator considered the information available to them and agreed with Barclays that 
it was most likely Mr R had authorised both the loan and the later transactions. She couldnt 
see how someone else wouldve been able to complete the disputed transactions given Mr R 
has said no one else had access to the card and PIN. She also highlighted that the payment 
Mr R confirmed hed made to his friend was made from the same device as the one used to 
apply for the disputed loan as well as a disputed £100 transfer between Mr Rs accounts 
which happened shortly before the loan credited the account. This device also matched with 
the phone number that Mr R had registered both with Barclays and our service. And given 
Mr R had also confirmed that no-one else had access to his phone  our investigator was 
also persuaded this it was most likely Mr R had applied for the loan as well.
Finally, our investigator also felt that whilst Barclays had caused Mr R inconvenience by 
repeatedly having to visit his local branch to try and resolve the issue, she felt the £450 
already offered was reasonable.
Mr R (and his representative) disagreed with our investigators view. In response to the view, 
they said the following:They remain unsure where the rest of the funds relating to the disputed loan have 
gone  which couldve been used towards the settling the loan ultimately reducing 
the interest that has accrued since
Barclays stopped and returned an attempted transaction of £1,950  but didnt inform 
Mr R about their reasons for stopping this transaction. 
Mr R was continually provided with conflicting information at varying stages. For 
example, at some stages he was told he wouldnt be held liable for the loan, then this 
was changed, and Mr R was told his claim had been declined by the fraud team. 
Overall, they feel Barclays have acted very unprofessionally throughout the course of 
this complaint. 
Theyve highlighted that its possible for things such as bank cards to be cloned as 
well as phones and banking apps being able to be hacked. So they feel its unfair the 
outcome was made based solely on the fact there was no point of compromise to the 
necessary details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulations in relation to the disputed transactions involved with this complaint 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). I wont go into specific detail here but in 
summary the regulations set out when a customer is responsible for transactions which 
happen on their account. This is typically when the transactions have been authorised by the 
customer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer has 
authorised transactions or not, the bank would be expected to provide evidence as to why 
theyre holding their customer liable.
Having reviewed the information provided by both Barclays and Mr R  I agree with the 
outcome that our investigator reached. Ill explain why below.
There are two elements to consider:
- the application of the loan
- the disputed transactions which followed 
In terms of the application of the loan, I can see Barclays has been able to provide evidence 
of the device the application was made from. Im satisfied this was the same device which 
was used roughly an hour and a half earlier for a payment which Mr R has confirmed to our 
investigator that he did make. I appreciate Mr R has said he didnt register this new device 
(which from the evidence Ive seen happened four days before the disputed activity). But if 
that was the case  I would question how Mr R has been able to make the genuine mobile 
banking payment from the same device shortly before the loan was applied for. Barclays has 
also confirmed that in order for the new device to be registered  someone wouldve also 
needed access to Mr Rs genuine card and PIN to verify the registration. Mr R has told our 
investigator that no-one else had access to his card or knew his PIN. As a result, Im also not 
persuaded theres a plausible explanation as to how someone else couldve completed the 
registration process in the first place. 
I can also see that when this device was registered, it was alongside the same phone 
number that Barclays had for Mr R  as well as the same one that was provided to our 
service when we received the complaint. If a fraudster had been the one to register this new 
device, Im not sure why they would run the risk of registering it alongside Mr Rs recognised 
phone number  as this would increase the likelihood of Mr R finding out what happened. In addition to this, Id have also expected a fraudster to have made the most of being able to 
access the mobile banking on a new device. But instead  they wait four days before 
attempting any payments out of the account  even though there was an available balance 
to potentially transfer out at the point of registration. For these reasons, Im persuaded (on 
balance) that its most likely this was a device that was associated with Mr R.
Ive then thought about how plausible it would be for someone to have been able to obtain 
this device only an hour and a half after it had been genuinely used  as well as being able 
to obtain the correct login credentials in order to access Mr Rs mobile banking to apply for a 
loan. During a visit to branch, I can see Mr R (and his representative) has suggested his 
phone mayve been hacked  but I havent seen any evidence which persuades me this was 
the most likely scenario. Mr R has also confirmed that no-one else had access to his phone 
around the time of the disputed activity. And so I think this unlikely. Instead, I think its most 
likely that Mr R was the one to apply for the loan.
 
Another reason why Im persuaded this is most likely is because of the nature of the loan 
itself. Barclays has confirmed this was a top up loan. This is essentially a loan which is used 
to pay off some kind of pre-existing loan or finance with the same provider. Barclays has 
also evidenced wording in the disputed agreement which implies the applicant had to choose 
if they wanted the loan to be used to offset any pre-existing loans or finance:
Then, as youve asked us to, well use your new loan to repay your existing loan with us as 
detailed below, or any other borrowing with us youve told us you would like to pay off
If a fraudster was the one applying for the loan, Im unsure why they would choose to apply 
for this ahead of a standard loan. This would ultimately mean the fraudster would have less 
money to be able to use after the top-up loan had been used to offset any pre-existing loans 
and finance held by their victim with no benefit to them.
Considering the above, Im persuaded overall that its most likely Mr R did apply for the loan. 
And it is therefore fair and reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr R liable for it.
 
Ive then thought about the disputed transactions which took place from Mr Rs account after 
the loan had been credited. In order for both the ATM and ASD withdrawals to take place, Mr 
Rs genuine card and PIN wouldve been required  the same as when mobile banking was 
registered on the new device. As Ive already mentioned, Ive thought about whether theres 
a plausible explanation for how someone else couldve obtained these things. But given that 
Mr R has confirmed no-one else had access to the card or PIN  Im not persuaded there is 
an alternative explanation for what happened. Therefore, I think its most likely these 
withdrawals mustve also been authorised by Mr R in some capacity.
I appreciate Mr Rs representative has suggested the possibility that Mr Rs card couldve 
been cloned. However, Im not persuaded this was the case and I dont consider it the most 
likely explanation as to what happened. Cards can be cloned by fraudsters copying the 
magnetic stripe on the back of cards. But Ive not seen any credible evidence of the 
embedded chip being able to be copied. On this occasion, both the ASD and ATM 
transactions have been authenticated as a result of the chip on the card being read and then 
the subsequent PIN being entered. Therefore, Im satisfied it was Mr Rs genuine card being 
used and not a clone. 
Finally, Ive thought about how Barclays handled Mr Rs claim from when he first made them 
aware of what happened. Its clear the issue went on for a number of months  and involved 
Mr R visiting branch on a number of occasions during that time which I appreciate wouldve 
been frustrating for him. And whilst I havent seen any evidence to specifically show this, I 
have no reason to doubt that Mr R mayve initially been provided with some incorrect information in regard to the outcome of his claim  Barclays have admitted as such. For the 
length of time taken as well as being provided with incorrect information, I do think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to award some compensation for this. However, Ive thought about 
whether the amount offered - £450  is reasonable on this occasion. Having done so, Im 
satisfied it is and wont be asking Barclays to award anything further.
Ive also considered Mr Rs concerns that interest has continually been applied to the 
outstanding loan balance. As Im satisfied Mr R is liable for the loan  Barclays would be 
entitled to add interest at the agreed rate set out in the original loan agreement. So Im not 
persuaded this has been applied unfairly. Im also aware that Mr Rs representative has said 
that Barclays had agreed to put this matter on hold whilst the complaint was being 
considered. I havent seen any evidence which confirms that  but even if I accepted that Mr 
R and his representative had been told this, this doesnt mean that interest wouldnt accrue 
still during this time. It just means that the matter couldnt be pursued until the complaint had 
been resolved and Mr R had ultimately been held liable.
I note the other issue Mr R and his representative have raised is the whereabouts of an 
amount of just over £3,600 which left Mr Rs account in November 2019. As mentioned 
earlier, Barclays has said the money has been moved to an internal sundry account  where 
it still remains. It is for Mr R and Barclays to discuss whether these funds are now accessible 
and whether they can now be used to reduce the outstanding loan balance. But as this didnt 
form part of Mr Rs initial complaint, I wont be commenting on this further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman