DRN-1193118
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2007. 
Miss P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Capital One had to make it clear to Miss P that she had a choice 
about it. But Miss P says she didnt see anything about PPI during her application for the 
credit card and that she would never have agreed to it.
Capital Ones records show that the PPI started in 2007, around two years after the credit 
card was opened. And Capital One says the PPI was sold when Miss P called to activate a 
replacement card.
Capital One hasnt been able to send us a recording of the call when Miss P took out the 
PPI. But it has sent us a copy of the call script it says wouldve been used in activation calls 
at the time. This script instructs the operator to ask is this ok? or are you happy with this? 
in relation to the PPI, and says that they must get explicit consent from the customer before 
adding the policy.
Based on what I understand about Capital Ones sales practices at the time, I think its likely 
the call with Miss P largely followed the script Capital One has sent us. So I think its likely 
Capital One did make it clear to Miss P thats he had a choice about the PPI, and that Miss P 
chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Miss P has said she didnt take out PPI on other credit cards and loans she has, so wouldnt 
have agreed to it on this credit card. But I dont think not taking it on other accounts 
necessarily means Miss P didnt want PPI on this credit card. And, as Ive explained above, 
based on the evidence I have I think its likely Capital One did make it clear to Miss P that 
she had a choice about the PPI here.
I havent seen clear evidence that Capital One gave Miss P any personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to her. This means it didnt have to check if the 
PPI was right for Miss P. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy 
would also likely have paid out longer than Miss P wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. So it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Miss P off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because:
    Capial One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premium) - so it should have told Miss P about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
     Miss P, that was unfair.
    To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
     that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman