DRN-3351466
The complaint and background
Miss H feels that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly applied charges and 
interest to her accounts. 
Miss H complained to Halifax, but it did not uphold the complaint, so she referred her 
concerns to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Hs concerns, he explained that he didnt think 
Halifax had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Miss Hs accounts. Miss H disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Miss Hs complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax charged Miss H over the years were fair and reasonable. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision, so it isnt something for me 
to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Miss H if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges  
 and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial difficulty. So 
Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Miss H fairly and 
reasonably.
I dont think that Halifax did treat Miss H unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I cant see that there were any obvious signs of financial difficulties that 
should have flagged to Halifax that Miss H might need some help. 
I want to be clear here that Im not saying Miss H wasnt in financial difficulties, but while I 
accept that Miss H was using her overdraft on one of her accounts regularly, the amount 
being credited to the account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable 
prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. And Miss H was regularly 
transferring large sums from her overdrawn account to another account she held which was 
generally operating in credit. So, in the absence of any evidence of contact from Miss H to 
say she was struggling financially, I dont think this was enough to flag to Halifax that it ought 
to review her accounts in more detail, or that should have alerted Halifax to any potential 
financial difficulty. 
And when Miss H did speak to Halifax in January 2020, it took appropriate steps to help her 
by taking details of her income and expenditure and temporarily stopping charges. 
With all this in mind, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with adding 
the interest, fees and charges it did, so I dont think it did anything wrong here.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss H, but Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt 
treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman