DRN-3241960
The complaint
Mr A complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money sent him a notice of 
default when he was two months in arrears with his loan payments and that he had to 
borrow money at a high interest rate to repay it and stop the account being defaulted.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr A was provided with a loan of £3,000 by 118 118 Money payable over 12 
months at the monthly rate of £349.33. I shall deal with the record of payments on the loan 
account below. On 8 October 2021, Mr A was served with a notice of default as he was over 
two months in arrears with his loan payments. He contacted 118 118 Money to say that the 
notice was served too early and that he should be given an opportunity to pay off the 
arrears. 
He then contacted 118 118 Money several times after that in order to get a guarantee that if 
he made a payment arrangement the loan would not be defaulted. Having failed to get that 
guarantee he says he was put in a position where if he didnt borrow to pay off the arrears, 
the loan would be defaulted. He tells us his wife had to borrow the money for him at an 
exorbitant interest rate to pay off the arrears. He says that if 118 118 Money had sent the 
notice at the appropriate time, he would have had the funds to pay the arrears in full, and 
that hed tried several times to make payment arrangement and 118 118 Money wouldnt set 
one up. He says that 118 118 Money falsely advised him that it had to serve the notice in 
accordance with FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) regulations.
On referral to this service our adjudicator said that although 118 118 Money could have 
issued the Notice of Default later, he didnt believe that issuing it when it did was wrong, and 
Mr A wouldve been in exactly the same position but just a month further down the line had it 
issued it after a further month. He was unable to uphold the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
118 118 Money issued the Notice of Default on 8 October 2021. At that stage the account 
was two months in arrears. Mr A called 118 118 Money three days later. In the course of the 
call the adviser said they could set up a payment arrangement, but the call terminated before 
this could be done. Mr A called 118 118 Money back two weeks later. During several calls 
up until 27 October 2021 he asked to speak to a manager, and I understand that there was 
some difficulty over the availability of a manager.
Mr A spoke to an adviser on 27 October 2021 and asked for a guarantee that if he set up a 
payment arrangement the account would not be defaulted. The adviser said they couldnt 
give such a guarantee. Mr A says he then spoke to a manager who wouldnt accept a 
payment of half the arrears and told him the only way to stop the default was if he paid the 
arrears in full. Mr A says his wife had to borrow the money to pay off the arrears. He believes 
118 118 Money falsely told him it had to serve the notice in accordance with FCA regulations 
when there was no such regulation.
Unfortunately I havent been supplied with copy of the recording of the call Mr A had with a 
manager on 27 October. I shall assume that the manager told him he had to pay the arrears 
rather than setting up a payment arrangement.
I noted that the default notice was sent over 18 months after the first instalment was due on 
1 April 2020, for what was supposed to be a 12 month loan. Looking at the account of 
payments, I see that several payments were missed in the course of the agreement, and that 
on 30 April 2021 two months payments were written off. It appears that when payments were 
missed after that this triggered the sending of a default notice. As this was more than six 
months after the loan was due to be repaid, even if Mr A had been allowed a payment 
holiday, the loan was likely to have been more than two months in arrears so it was 
reasonable to send the default notice then.
From the calls that have been provided, I didnt hear 118 118 Money tell Mr A that FCA 
regulations required the service of the notice, rather that the notice was served in 
accordance with the Consumer Credit Act. So, whilst best practice and the Information 
Commissioners Office guidance says that a such a notice should be sent after the account 
was three months in arrears, I cant say that 118 118 Money acted in breach of that.. 
If I assume that the manager Mr A spoke to on 27 October insisted that only full payment of 
the arrears would stop the account being defaulted, this might not be surprising given the 
way the account had been run.
Ive considered what the position might have been if 118 118 Money had waited a further 
month before serving a notice. Ive seen that Mr A contacted 118 118 Money after receiving 
the notice and missing two further payments on the loans, so its likely that he would have 
waited until the default notice was received. But after that time 118 118 Money would have 
been entitled to default the account and this might have been fair if the relationship between 
it and Mr A had broken down. Given the history of the account that may well have been 
reasonable.
Ive noted that Mr As wife had to borrow the money at a very high interest rate to pay off the 
arrears. She has declined to provide any evidence of this. So even if it could be said that 
Mr A made a loss, hes not shown us any evidence of this. He says that his salary was due 
to be paid in November and that hed received £250 compensation. But, bearing in mind that 
three months instalments would have been due then, there would have been no guarantee 
that he could have afforded the payment. So its likely that if hed wanted to pay off the 
arrears, he would still have had to borrow the money to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman