DRN-2167971
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) refused to honour a settlement figure which it had sent to him.  
What happened
 In February 2015 Mr W was supplied with a caravan and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with BPF. The agreement was voluntary terminated in 2017, leaving Mr W with a 
shortfall to pay.
Mr W initially complained about the shortfall amount. Hes since been making repayments 
towards the outstanding balance.
Mr W says that in October 2019 he was contacted about arrears of repayments and a debt 
collection agency told him that the balance due under the agreement was £1225.44. Mr W 
says that when he tried to pay this amount, BPF refused to accept it and denied that a 
settlement offer had been made. Mr W was unhappy about this and complained.
In response, BPF said the outstanding balance was £2554.08. It offered £50 compensation 
to Mr W for the delay in logging his complaint.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that BPF had provided conflicting 
information about the outstanding balance and asked it to pay £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W.
Mr W said he was happy with the compensation, but he still disagreed with the outstanding 
balance figure. So, Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at the letter dated 28 October 2019 which was sent to Mr W. This says that the 
amount required from Mr W to discharge the indebtedness under the agreement is 
£1225.44.
I can see why Mr W might have thought that this was the amount required to settle the 
account. However, I can see from the contact notes provided by BPF that Mr W was made 
aware during a telephone call dated 4 November 2019 that this figure was an error.
Ive also taken into account that Mr W was in regular communication with BPF and the debt 
collection agency about the account. I think he would have been aware of the correct 
outstanding balance. Further, I can see that the correct balance figure of £2554.08 appears 
in the letter dated 28 October 2019 and is clearly referred to as the outstanding balance.
I appreciate that Mr W disagreed with BPF about the outstanding balance and continues to 
disagree. However, whilst I can see that the information in the letter dated 28 October 2019 
was misleading, I havent seen anything to suggest that the figure of £2554.08 is incorrect.
BPF has acknowledged that the letter dated 28 October 2019 contained conflicting 
information. It has explained that this was a system generated letter which was triggered 
incorrectly. Im satisfied, based on the contact notes, that BPF made Mr W aware of the error 
promptly. But I dont think BPF has done enough to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W by the misleading information in the letter. 
Putting things right
 I appreciate that Mr W wants BPF to accept the amount stated in the letter dated 28 
October 2019 in settlement of the account. However, I dont think its fair to ask BPF to do 
this. Im satisfied that the figure was quoted in error and that Mr W was aware that the 
correct figure required to settle the account was higher. Im also satisfied that BPF took 
steps to correct the error within a reasonable time.
That said, I dont think BPF has done enough to resolve the complaint fairly. It took some 
time for BPF to log Mr Ws complaint and the conflicting figures have caused him distress 
and inconvenience at a time when he was already experiencing difficulties. BPF should pay 
further compensation of £300 (in addition to the £50 already paid).
In relation to Mr Ws credit file, BPF has explained that it didnt record any defaults prior to 
selling the account. So, any reports on Mr Ws credit file in relation to this agreement have 
been made by the third party who owns the debt now. Im unable to ask BPF to amend the 
credit file for this reason. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance must pay further compensation of £300 to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman