DRN-3696155
The complaint
Mr D complains that for a period he was unable to make overpayments to his mortgage 
account because HSBC UK Bank Plc was unable to provide access to his online banking 
account to allow him to do so. Mr D wants that sorted and compensation for the time taken 
to do so.
What happened
Mr D had a fixed rate mortgage product with HSBC since 2019 and he took out a further 
product with HSBC in 2022. Mr D had a bank account with another bank from which he paid 
the mortgage. Mr D understood that he would be able to overpay a certain percentage of his 
mortgage by calling up and speaking to someone over the phone, but HSBC required him to 
set up an online banking with a mortgage account. However, HSBC was unable to set up 
online banking for Mr D. 
Mr Ds alternative was to pay by way of telegraphic transfer (TT) from his own account with 
his own bank to HSBC, but this process caused an automatic block and he had to contact 
his banks anti-fraud tam which caused him an hours waiting time each time he had to make 
contact. HSBC apologised, offered compensation of £200 and told Mr D that it had a team 
looking at the problem. 
Although HSBC said that the problem was fixed and closed the complaint, it wasnt. So, after 
further contact, HSBC said that the problem was that the mortgage was linked to an 
incorrect profile and to view the mortgage via online banking, it had to be moved to a HSBC 
profile. HSBC said that this would be done in September 2022. HSBC also paid a further 
£150 compensation. 
On 27 September HSBC wrote to Mr D giving him a new customer number a new mortgage 
reference number with a link to register following Mr Ds further complaint of 21 September, 
but Mr D says that this threw up an error message. On 4 October 2022 HSBC acknowledged 
that Mr D was unable to register for online banking services and asked him to contact the 
online team offering £100 for the delay. On 20 October HSBC told us that its Internet 
Banking Team helped Mr D to register for online and mobile banking applications 
successfully but that the team had told Mr D that he cant make payment to the mortgage 
though his mobile app but gave him an option to initiate a payment from his current account 
with his bank. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as now HSBC had, 
after further review, recognised the problem, provided a fix, and provided appropriate 
compensation. Mr D disagreed saying that the problem hadnt been fixed. Mr D says that the 
compensation offered is inadequate for the distress and inconvenience he had suffered 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues in this complaint. Firstly, the delay in registering Mr D for internet 
banking and secondly Mr Ds inability to make overpayments to his mortgage account. As 
the background indicates there was a difficulty in setting up this account for a period of 
months - from May until September/October 2022. Initially, HSBC didnt know what the 
problem was, then identified it as a problem related to an incorrect profile, then Mr D had 
continuing difficulty registering for the account. 
HSBC acknowledged that there were issues with its service and offered compensation in 
total of £450. I can see that must have been very frustrating and time consuming for Mr D 
trying to get this up and running over these several months. 
Mr Ds second issue was that this problem with online banking prevented him making 
overpayments and I have to consider whether that is in fact correct and whether Mr D 
suffered any financial loss.
 
Mr D says that when he took out a new mortgage product with HSBC that he was told that 
he could make payments to his account by phone but that hasnt proved to be the case. Mr 
D hasnt provided any documentary evidence that such a promise was attached to the new 
mortgage product, and I havent been directed to any phone call where this promise had 
been made. I also cant understand how or why HSBC could offer to make a payment from 
an account with another bank and Ive seen no evidence that HSBC agreed to do so. But It 
seems that about the same time that Mr D took out the new mortgage product that HSBC 
agreed to instal internet banking for his mortgage account. 
If Mr D wanted to make overpayments from his account with another bank he would still 
have to go through any processes required by that other bank. Mr D says that the problem 
was that if he tried to make a payment to the HSBC account, this process generated an 
automatic block by his own bank, and he was put on hold for almost an hour to wait to speak 
to their anti-fraud team. But that seems to me to be an issue with his own bank and not 
HSBC. So, Im not convinced that the absence of the internet banking facility prevented Mr D 
making overpayments. 
   
Mr D had another way to make overpayments, namely by TT from his bank account which is 
a popular way of making overpayments. I noted that Mr D made an overpayment in May and 
presumably could have done that in the same manner again, so I dont consider that Mr D 
lost out financially because of this. Mr D believed that by setting up the online banking with 
HSBC that he could avoid the delay he experienced whilst trying to get a TT processed 
through his own bank but it seems that that any delay, on Mr Ds evidence, lay with his own 
bank and not with HSBC and I cant find HSBC at fault for that.
    
Ive carefully read the evidence on this file. I can understand Mr Ds frustration in the delays 
in setting up the internet banking facility and I would have thought that HSBC should have 
grasped and dealt with the issue earlier. But whilst I sympathise with the difficulties that Mr D 
experienced in setting up this account, I believe that the £450 offered by HSBC represents 
fair compensation for Mr Ds distress and inconvenience. I will not require HSBC to pay 
further compensation and I dont uphold this complaint.
   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman