DRN-3981845
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs M purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a 
company which Ill call P. They financed it through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. 
In May 2021, Mr and Mrs M made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. They 
said that P had told them they would save £40,000 over the lifetime of the system. But the 
benefits have been much less, and they think the system was misrepresented to them, 
inducing them to purchase it. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and 
Mrs M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs M but found the system had not generated as 
much electricity as expected, so asked Shawbrook for its thoughts on this.
Shawbrook asked P for its comments. P said that Mr and Mrs M had contacted it in January 
2020 with concerns about how little benefit they were receiving. P said it inspected the 
system in March 2020 and found there was a fault, which it fixed. P had offered to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs M for the value of the lost benefits from installation until 3 March 2020  when 
the system was fixed. Mr and Mrs M had not responded to that offer. But P said the offer 
was still available to Mr and Mrs M and that upon acceptance P would add statutory interest 
to the date of settlement, which would compensate them for the time theyd been without 
that money. 
Our adjudicator explained this to Mr and Mrs M and said that the offer was fair. But Mr and 
Mrs M didnt accept this. They felt the offer was pitiful as it was only about £300, much less 
than the amount they expected to benefit from the system, which was £40,000 over the 
lifetime of the system. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, section 75 applies to 
this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs M can claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, 
for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way they could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant because it says that any negotiations between Mr and Mrs M 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Shawbrook shouldve treated Mr and Mrs M fairly when responding to their claim under 
section 75. I have the power to decide whether Shawbrook did this, and if not to tell it how to 
put things right. 
Mr and Mrs M say they were told they would save £40,000 over the lifetime of the system. 
Solar panel systems are generally expected to have a lifespan of 25 years. At the time of 
sale, P provided a detailed quote, which included the following table setting out the 
estimated benefits that Mr and Mrs M could receive from the system:It is clear from this that the savings that Mr and Mrs M refer to are actually made up of the 
following benefits from the system:
Feed-In Tariff payments (for electricity generated and electricity exported to the grid)
Electricity savings from using electricity generated by the solar panels as it is 
generated (rather than buying an equivalent amount of electricity from their electricity 
supplier)
It is also clear that the total estimated income and savings over 25 years are shown as 
£20,897.82. Given this, I think it is unlikely that Mr and Mrs M were told they would save 
£40,000 over the lifetime of the system. It maybe that they have mis-remembered the figure 
they were given. 
The information in the quote makes me think that it is more likely that Mr and Mrs M were 
told the system would generate financial benefits of about £20,000 over its 25-year lifespan. 
This estimated benefit is based on a number of assumptions about the amount of electricity 
generated by the system, how much electricity is used by Mr and Mrs M as it is generated, 
and inflation which affects FIT payment and electricity unit rates. These assumptions are set 
out in the quote. Im satisfied that those assumptions were reasonable at the time, and I 
would not say it was a misrepresentation if the actual benefits received dont match those in 
the quote due to inflation not matching the assumptions or Mr and Mrs M not using as much 
of the generated electricity as estimated (their actions being beyond the control of P). 
However, up until March 2020, it is clear that the system was not generating as much 
electricity as it should have. In fact, it was generating less than half the expected amount. 
So, the benefits that Mr and Mrs M received in that time were less than half what they were 
expecting. This prompted their initial complaint to P and could be a breach of contract  
since the system wasnt generating as much electricity as set out in the quote. 
In March 2020, P inspected the system and rectified a fault that was causing the under-
generation. Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms FIT statements since then, it appears that the system 
is generating electricity as expected, and as set out in the quote. 
P has offered to reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the lost benefits due to the under-generation of 
electricity up to 3 March 2020. Im satisfied that adequately compensates Mr and Mrs M for 
their losses compared to what they were expecting. The problem is not ongoing, so I 
wouldnt expect Shawbrook to do anything further. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that P misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs M. There may 
have been a breach of contract because the system was not working properly until it was 
fixed in March 2020. But Ps offer puts that right. So, I dont expect Shawbrook to do 
anything further in respect of that. So, I dont think Shawbrook acted unfairly when it declined 
Mr and Mrs Ms claim.  
If Mr and Mrs M wish to receive the compensation offered by P they should contact them 
directly as soon as possible. While P has said that it will honour its offer and add interest to 
it, that offer may not be available indefinitely.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman