DRN-1841734
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr T have complained about their home insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited, in 
relation to how it handled a water leak claim they made to it in 2018.
What happened
A valve in the water tank situated in the eaves of Mrs H and Mr Ts home burst in April 2018. 
The deluge of water that resulted affected almost every room in the house. Mrs H and Mr T 
needed to move out of their home and Mr Ts employer found the family somewhere to live. 
Whilst Fairmead accepted the property needed to be stripped out for it to be dried, this was 
not fully completed until late August 2018 with the property being found to be dry in 
September. It was then not until February 2019 that work to reinstate the home began.
In April 2019 the claim was further delayed by disputes that arose in respect of what was 
needed to reinstate the kitchen and flooring at the property. Mrs H and Mr T became 
concerned at what they saw as constant efforts to undervalue their claim. They were also 
concerned about poor work completed by Fairmeads contractor. 
Ultimately it was agreed that the remaining work would be settled in cash. But this in turn 
resulted in further upset as it became clear that Fairmeads contractor had been less than 
honest with Fairmead about why it had stopped work. It also meant that Mr T had to manage 
the work to completion. 
Mrs H and Mr T wrote to Fairmead setting out what they saw as the disastrous process 
they had lived through. They detailed a general and compete lack of communication as well 
as instances of lack of care being taken with their property, such as the toilet being used 
whilst disconnected and then not being emptied/cleaned. They said they felt theyd been out 
of their property longer than they should have and that they could have let their property if 
the claim had been completed in good order. They asked Fairmead to pay them for their 
administrative and project management costs and reimburse them for lost rent.
Fairmead agreed with all the points Mrs H and Mr T had made about how their claim had 
been handled. It accepted they had been caused distress and inconvenient, for which it 
offered £350. It also agreed to pay £50 to cover the cost of extra phone calls it accepted they 
likely had to make to keep the claim on track. But it wasnt minded to pay any more for the 
administrative costs sought by Mrs H and Mr T. Nor anything for their time to project manage 
the claim. Regarding lost rent it said there was no evidence to suggest they were planning to 
rent their home out, if they had done that then a different policy would have been in place.  
Mrs H and Mr T complained to this service. They said they felt the compensation offered was 
derisory. Our investigator felt Fairmead had handled the claim poorly, causing a lot of 
distress and inconvenience. She felt it should pay £1,000 compensation on top of the £350 
offered in the final response. But she wasnt minded to make it pay any other costs 
requested by Mrs H and Mr T.
Mrs H and Mr T said they felt the suggested total compensation was insufficient. Fairmead, 
meanwhile, said it felt the suggested sum was too much and offered a lesser amount, a 
further £650. It also confirmed the £350 and £50 had already been paid to Mrs H and Mr T. 
Whilst our investigator put this offer forwards to Mrs H and Mr T, they didnt accept it. The 
complaint was passed to me a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs H and Mr T went through a terrible time as a result of how Fairmead 
handled this claim. Whilst I havent set everything out here I accept they were caused 
significant distress and inconvenience due to Fairmeads poor handling of their claim. They 
shouldnt have had to suffer through all of that. Its also clear to me that Fairmead doesnt 
dispute this. It has accepted the complaint issues raised by Mrs H and Mr T. In summary 
they are:
Huge delays with the claim lasting far, far longer than it ever should have done.
Meaning the family were in alternative accommodation for far longer than they should 
have been.
There was a complete lack of communication.
Payments were made late.
The contractors lied and didnt take care of their home.
The work done was substandard.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that significant compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Whilst I understand that Mrs H and Mr T think £1,350 is not enough in that respect. Im 
satisfied that it is. Ive seen everything theyve said and set that against the way we award 
compensation. I know Mrs H and Mr T have considered things like their hourly professional 
wage and what they might have achieved for renting their home during the period of 
Fairmeads delay  but that is not the sort of basis we use for making awards. We look at the 
upset suffered and apply a figure to that which we think fairly and reasonably makes up for 
the suffering caused by the insurers failures.
Likewise, I see that Fairmead thinks £1,350 is too much. I dont agree. This claim was 
prolonged way beyond the point it should have been resolved and Fairmeads failures didnt 
just stop at claim delays. For the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied Fairmead caused 
Mrs H and Mr T, compensation totalling £1,350 is warranted. 
Fairmead has paid £50 as a contribution towards extra phone call costs it accepts Mrs H and 
Mr T had. Mrs H and Mr T want further payment based on their hourly wage. This is not the 
type of award we usually make. Having to make extra phone calls and take time to further a 
poorly handled claim equates to inconvenience, and Ive explained my compensation award 
for that above. 
Mrs H and Mr T also asked Fairmead to pay for them to project manage the repairs. Again, 
taking time to try and further the claim is covered by any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. And whilst I know there were a lot of disputes about what was needed to 
reinstate the property, Mrs H and Mr T always needed to be involved in resolving those. In 
terms of the final repairs being settled in cash, I see it was then necessary for Mrs H and 
Mr T to manage the reinstatement. I understand this was time consuming for them  but it 
seems this was likely the best available way forwards for them at that time. I see Mrs H and Mr T also feel they have lost out on income they might have earned had 
they had the opportunity to let out their home. Mr T said their intent to let is evidenced by an 
email from late 2017, just a few months before the leak. I appreciate that Mrs H and Mr T 
feel this shows they would have let the flat and the only thing that stopped them was 
Fairmeads failure to handle the claim in a timely manner. But Im not persuaded this is the 
case.
In the 2017 email, Mr T tells a property agent that he is thinking about letting the property. 
The agent replies that if Mr T decides to do this or wants any advice, hed be happy to help, 
just get in touch. Mrs H and Mr T havent provided anything further which shows they moved 
the matter of renting their home on from being more than just an idea to a definite plan. For 
me to make Farimead liable for lost rent in a situation where a loss has occurred and it 
handles the subsequent claim badly, Id have to be satisfied that if the loss followed by its 
failures had not occurred, the home would most likely always have been let. Given that 
Mrs H and Mr T dont seem to have moved beyond letting their property being just an idea, 
or a possibility, between the 2017 email and the date of loss in April 2018, Im not persuaded 
that is the case. So I cant reasonably require Fairmead to reimburse the rent they think they 
may have obtained if theyd let their home.
Putting things right
Ive found Mrs H and Mr T are due fair and reasonable compensation of £1,350. Fairmead 
has already paid £350 which means it will now have to pay Mrs H and Mr T, if they accept 
my decision, a further £1,000.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay a further £1,000 
compensation to Mrs H and Mr T (my total award being £1,350 but with £350 already having 
been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman