DRN-2908238
The complaint
Mr I complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible to lend to 
him.
What happened
Mr I took out a Lending Stream loan in January 2020. He borrowed £350 and he was due to 
repay this over 6 monthly instalments  although as far as I am aware he hasnt fully repaid 
the loan. Mr I mainly complained that his credit history at the time, which included multiple 
loans and some problems keeping up with repayments, showed that no further borrowing 
should have been provided to him.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr I and Lending Stream told us about the loan. 
Our adjudicator thought it wasnt unreasonable that Lending Stream had provided this loan 
and didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that (in brief summary):
given the amount of the loan, what was apparent about Mr Is circumstances at the 
time and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Lending 
Stream to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr I provided, or the information Lending 
Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr I said about his finances
our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr I took, the amount this loan 
was for or the period of time Mr I was borrowing meant Mr Is loan history, on its own, 
shouldve made Lending Stream realise he mightve been experiencing underlying 
financial difficulty.
 
Mr I disagreed with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that Lending Stream had carried 
out credit checks that led to it declining all his previous loan applications  and that his credit 
position hadnt improved since then. He felt that a responsible lender wouldve at least asked 
for further documentation to check the information hed provided in support of his credit 
application  which he said wouldve shown the lending wasnt affordable. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr I 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint.
Before lending to Mr I, Lending Stream asked Mr I for information about his financial 
situation. As well as requesting details of his income and his normal outgoings, Lending 
Stream also asked Mr I what his monthly expenses were for other credit and checked this 
information with an independent credit reference agency to understand their view of his 
credit expenses.
The figures hed declared and the information Lending Stream collected appear to support 
its lending decision. Mr I had declared take home pay of £1,850 and outgoings of around 
£875 plus an amount of £225 Mr I said he was paying towards his other credit commitments 
 leaving him with disposable income of £750 for the rest of the month. Lending Streams credit checks showed that Mr I had 14 active credit accounts at the time of 
application, 3 delinquent accounts within last 12 months (in other words there had been 
some payment problems) and no defaults recorded on his credit history in the previous 12 
months.
I think the information Lending Stream had gathered suggested Mr I had ample disposable 
income to be able to pay the monthly repayments for the loan. But Lending Stream also 
needed to be satisfied that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr I and Ive thought 
carefully about the conclusions Lending Stream drew from the information it held about Mr I.
I dont think there was anything apparent on the credit checks that Lending Stream did that 
suggested Mr I would be likely to find it hard to pay this loan in a way that was sustainable 
for him. Although it was apparent that hed had some payment problems on his three 
delinquent accounts this alone wouldnt have been sufficient in my view to put off a 
responsible lender from considering his application in a positive light. Borrowers applying for 
loans of this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit 
history. The fact that no defaults were recorded suggested he had reached agreement with 
the lenders and he was making satisfactory repayments. 
One of Mr Is main concerns is that he had a record of multiple loan applications all of which 
Lending Stream had declined over the course of the previous year  the last time just a 
month or so before Mr I successfully applied for this loan. Lending Stream has now sent us 
details showing this. And Mr I has sent information showing that Lending Stream carried out 
a number of credit checks between January 2019 and January 2020  including one on the 
day this loan was approved. He believes credit checks shouldve revealed that he was 
regularly relying on expensive credit providers and often had multiple loans outstanding at 
the same time. So, I can understand why Mr I is anxious to know why Lending Stream 
approved this application when he feels his financial situation was similar throughout the 
whole period he had been applying to borrow.
I've taken carefully into account all this information. Its worth remembering that a lender 
might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same 
credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any differences between what Lending 
Stream recorded and other information Ive seen about Mr Is actual financial situation at the 
time.
On balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as 
there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had gathered, to suggest Mr I wouldnt be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. I dont think proportionate checks in these 
circumstances wouldve required Lending Stream to probe any more deeply into Mr Is 
finances or ask Mr I to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to 
verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Lending Stream to have asked to see the bank 
statements that Mr I has sent me. So although these show information that suggests 
Lending Stream possibly didnt have a proper understanding of Mr Is actual financial 
situation at the time, if this wasnt information that Mr I told Lending Stream about, then 
Lending Stream couldnt have known about it and I cant fairly say that Lending Stream 
shouldve known about it. 
I dont think that Mr Is record of declined loan applications throughout 2019 was sufficient to 
have prompted a responsible lender to decline this application. Everyones circumstances can change month to month  his previous loan application had been declined the month 
before. Prior to that, 3 months  had passed since Mr I had last applied to borrow from 
Lending Stream. So I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to rely mainly on the 
information it had gathered when making this lending decision  and I dont think Lending 
Stream had any strong reason to think at that stage Mr I was showing any particular signs of 
financial difficulty. He was actively using credit but seemed to be managing his finances 
effectively.
So Im not upholding Mr Is complaint about the loan.
Im very sorry that Mr I found repaying this loan difficult. I do accept that in reality Mr Is 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the 
other information Lending Stream obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be 
able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending 
Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr I. 
I havent seen enough to make me think that Lending Stream acted towards Mr I in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. Mr I complained that Lending Stream didnt send him its 
final response letter within the 8 weeks period it shouldve done. But whilst Ive noted what 
he says about this, the lateness of the final response letter hasnt significantly disadvantaged 
Mr I, financially or otherwise. I can completely understand this was frustrating for him. But 
although its unfortunate, its not enough in my view to warrant any extra payment. So, as 
things stand, Im not making any award against Lending Stream. 
I appreciate that this outcome is going to disappoint Mr I but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream (or any third party) that it should discuss 
payment options with Mr I and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he needs further time to 
pay what he still owes. 
And if Mr I would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr I has confirmed that the loan has now been repaid and he has set out his objections to 
my provisional decision. To briefly summarise, Mr I feels strongly that the credit information 
Lending Stream gathered should have prompted a responsible lender to carry out further 
checks  and that Lending Stream shouldve realised that further lending wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable for him. 
Lending Stream has acknowledged my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.  And Ive kept all 
these things in mind when considering Mr Is complaint.I note that Mr I has repaid this loan and I appreciate him taking the trouble to update me on 
this point. 
I would like to assure Mr I that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said, 
including his comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr I hasnt provided me with 
any new information that changes what I think about this case. Id already considered the 
main points he has mentioned above when thinking about my provisional decision and 
addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the outcome. I can understand that 
Mr I is disappointed in the outcome of the complaint and that he holds a different view to me. 
But I dont feel I can usefully add to what I've said in my provisional decision where I have 
explained how Ive come to my view.
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman