DRN-1841093
The complaint
Ms S complaint is about a mortgage and linked mortgage current account (MCA) she has 
with Barclays Bank UK PLC. She is unhappy that Barclays has reduced the borrowing limit 
on her MCA.
What happened
In 2003 Barclays advanced Ms S a repayment mortgage for £220,000 over 25 years. 
Running alongside the mortgage was a MCA. The total borrowing limit Barclays set for the 
combined account was £262,500. As the mortgage balance reduced, the MCA borrowing 
limit increased to reflect the total borrowing limit. Any credit balance in the MCA was offset 
against the mortgage balance for interest purposes, but equally, any amount the account 
was overdrawn by attracted interest. Ms S also had the option to link savings account to the 
mortgage and have those balances offset against the mortgage for interest purposes.
In May 2006 when Ms S applied for and was granted a new interest rate product for the 
mortgage, Barclays wrote to her confirming the details of the new product and also 
confirmed the MCA borrowing limit was £86,555.61. The MCA limit increased over time as 
the balance on the mortgage reduced, so that the total borrowing amount remained stable.
In April, May, November and December 2016 and May 2017 Barclays wrote to Ms S 
reminding her of how her MCA worked and that she needed to repay it by the end of her 
mortgage term. It noted that she had for the previous twelve months been close to the 
borrowing limit and asked that she contact it to tell it about her plans for repaying the debt.  
By April 2017 the borrowing on the MCA was over £206,000. Barclays also explained that it 
would be reviewing the borrowing limit on her account to ensure it was appropriate. It 
confirmed that it could make changes to the limit, but that it would give two months written 
notice of doing so before it did. Ms S didnt call Barclays to discuss the issue and it was 
unable to speak to her when it tried calling her.
In April 2017 Ms S made some large deposits into the MCA, which put it in credit for around 
a month. The balance of the overdraft rapidly increased and by the end of June 2017 it was 
in the region of £65,000. 
At the end of June 2017 Barclays wrote to Ms S to inform her that it intended to reduce the 
borrowing limit on her MCA from £208,520 to £175,300. It asked Ms S to contact it by 
30 August 2017 if she had any concerns about the change. She didnt contact Barclays, but 
I note that she has said she didnt receive the letter, possibly because it was not delivered or 
because she wasnt living in the flat at the time because she was having building work done.  
At this point Ms S was less than £65,000 overdrawn.
At the point the MCA limit was reduced the balance was just under £123,000. By the end of 
2017 the MCA balance had increased to around £163,000 overdrawn. This had increased 
again by the time Barclays sent Ms S her annual mortgage statement in October 2018 and 
the borrowing on the MCA was just under £180,000.
In mid-December 2018 Ms S called Barclays and told it she has lost her job. She explained 
that she wasnt able to pay her mortgage that month, but would do so in January. It was 
agreed she could do this, and the potential consequences were explained to her. The MCA 
account balance was discussed and the impacts this could have for her. The MCA borrowing 
limit was altered to the amount Ms S had spent at the time £182,008.90 so that the balance 
wasnt considered unauthorised and wouldnt attract charges. Ms S appears to have made 
payments into the account from this point onward to ensure the balance remained within the 
overdraft limit.
In January 2019 Ms S asked for information about her mortgage account as she was 
considering selling the property. She asked about short-term finance to help her in the 
interim and Barclays told her that it no longer offered that type of loan. Shortly thereafter 
Ms S called back and confirmed shed spoken to a broker to arrange a bridging loan. She 
asked that the relevant documentation to allow a second charge to be added to the property 
title be sent to her. Barclays asked her to provide details of the proposed charge for it to 
consider. Ms S didnt provide anything.
In March and April 2019 Barclays again sent Ms S a letter about her MCA balance and 
reminded her of how it worked and that she needed to repay it by the end of her mortgage 
term. It reminded her of the limit on the account of c£182,000. It again asked her to call it to 
discuss the matter. 
Ms S contacted Barclays in April 2019 and explained that she wouldnt be able to make her 
May mortgage payment. She asked that money was released from her pre-payment pot to 
cover the payment. Barclays agreed to do so. 
At the beginning of July 2019 Barclays received notification from the bank that Ms S used to 
pay her mortgage that shed cancelled the direct debit mandate. A matter of days later Ms S 
called Barclays and asked that the MCA limit be increased to its previous level. She was 
reminded that Barclays had written to her in 2017 telling her that it was reducing the limit and 
shed had time to ask that it be reinstated. As she hadnt called, the limit had been reduced.
Ms S complained to Barclays that her MCA limit had been reduced without her permission or 
notification. Barclays responded to the complaint in July 2019, but didnt uphold it. It said it 
reviewed the limit applicable to an account to ensure it remained appropriate for a 
consumers needs and to ensure it could be repaid by the end of the mortgage term. The 
mortgage conditions allowed it to do so. This is what it had done in 2017 and it didnt 
consider it did anything wrong.
Ms S wasnt happy with Barclays answer and referred her complaint to this service. She 
said she hadnt received the July 2017 letter and hadnt been aware the MCA limit had 
reduced. She said she carried on depositing money into the account; which she wouldnt 
have done had she known about the reduced limit. She told us it was having a big impact on 
her life and she didnt feel she could get on with anything else  Barclays had ruined her 
life. She had no idea why a bank would act in such a way and had lost faith in Barclays.
In support of her having not received the June 2017 letter from Barclays Ms S provided a 
photograph of an envelope addressed to someone else in a different road, which she said 
she found in the road. In addition, she said she didnt receive any text message confirmation 
of a branch meeting as she should have; evidencing that Barclays communications were 
unreliable.
One of our investigators considered Ms S complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Ms S didnt accept the investigators findings and said she didnt know Barclays had 
changed her mortgage completely. She repeated that she wanted it reinstated to the arrangement she had negotiated for a full 25 years. She asked the case be referred to an 
ombudsman if the investigator was unable to change his findings. 
Subsequently Ms S said that had she been told Barclays intended to reduce the MCA limit 
she would have withdrawn money up to the limit of just over £250,000. She says she would 
have then left the balance at that level as this is what was agreed in 2003 and she believes 
she is entitled to keep. Ms S says Barclays took the money she deposited in the MCA 
account in April 2017 leaving her with no fund.
As Ms S further comments didnt change the investigators decision the complaint has been 
referred to me for consideration. Ms S had asked for a conversation with the ombudsman 
who would be considering her complaint. I had the investigator explain to her that I have to 
remain impartial and appear to do so, so it would be inappropriate for me to discuss a 
complaint with only one party to a complaint. As such, she was invited to record what she 
wanted to say to me. She did so and I have listened to that recording and taken account of 
her comments when reaching my conclusions.
relevant terms and conditions
Section 18 of the MCA terms and conditions details:
18.1 We reserve the right to decline any request from you to borrow using a Mortgage 
Current Account Reserve.
18.6 We may vary or withdraw the amount of the Mortgage Current Account Reserve Limit 
and the period for which it is available. We will do this where
(i) in any other circumstances at your request or in order to comply with our 
obligations as a responsible lender.
18.3 We reserve the right to withdraw any unused part of your Mortgage Current Account 
Reserve Limit for any reason at our total discretion with immediate effect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before considering Ms S individual circumstances I think it would be appropriate to explain 
that the industry regulators have always required credit providers (including mortgage 
lenders) to lend responsibly. In general terms this means only allowing a consumer to 
borrow in circumstances where they can reasonably afford to pay the money (along with any 
interest charged) back to the lender. In 2014 the current regulator increased the burden on 
lenders to ensure they were lending responsibly to consumers. This requirement applied to 
all new lending being granted. 
I would also explain that a consumer isnt entitled to borrow money from a lender. A lender is 
entitled to decline a request to borrow if that request doesnt fit within its lending criteria. It is 
also allowed to alter its lending criteria to reflect its view of various risks and to comply with 
what the regulator requires of it. As long as the lender applies its lending criteria to all its 
customers in a fair manner, it is allowed to set its own criteria and change it when 
appropriate, and that isnt something this service would look to interfere with.
Having listened to Ms S recorded comments, I think it would also be worth clarifying that the 
offset facility she was referring to is still in place. If Ms S were to pay off the overdraft she has run up and put some funds into the MCA account, any positive balance would be used 
to offset the interest on her mortgage. It is the overdraft facility on the MCA that Ms S is 
unhappy about, specifically that she cant borrow as much as she once could.
In June 2017 Barclays reviewed Ms S borrowing. There is nothing wrong with it doing so as 
it is required to ensure it is lending to all its customers fairly and sensibly. At the time Ms S 
had her mortgage and she owed another c £65,000 on the MCA overdraft.  The MCA limit at 
that point allowed her to borrow almost another £190,000. 
Ms S was approaching the last ten years of her mortgage term and hadnt responded to 
numerous requests for her to talk to Barclays about how she was going to repay the 
overdraft debt by the end of the mortgage term. The borrowing had also been increasing 
rapidly since she had cleared the overdraft only a few months earlier. 
In the circumstances, Barclays concluded it wouldnt be responsible for it to allow Ms S to 
run up the same level of overdraft again. I am not persuaded it was an unreasonable 
decision at the time and was in line with the regulators requirement to lend responsibly and 
ensure that the money would be paid back by the end of the term. I would also comment that 
Barclays didnt remove the overdraft facility completely, but rather reduced it by 
approximately £75,000. Ms S still had access to a further £110,000 of borrowing if she 
wanted to use it. 
I note that Ms S has said that Barclays took some of the money she deposited in the account 
in 2017. I cant agree that is the case. Ms S owed Barclays money at that point and when 
she deposited the large sum of money in the April of that year, all she effectively did was pay 
off the debt she owed. Whilst she may not have viewed the situation in that manner, that is 
what she did in reality.
Ms S has said she didnt receive the notification of the reduction in the overdraft limit. I have 
looked at the letter sent to her and it was addressed correctly. Although post can go missing 
in transit, most is correctly delivered, and Ive seen nothing that evidences Ms S was having 
difficulties with her post in 2017. This would indicate that the letter was most likely delivered. 
Indeed, given Ms S recent comments about the situation with the property at the time the 
letter was sent, it would seem non-delivery probably wasnt the reason she didnt get it. 
Whilst I have sympathy for Ms S if she didnt get the letter telling her about the reduction in 
her overdraft facility that was being proposed because she had building works being done, 
but it was her responsibility to ensure her post was kept safe and accessible to her in those 
circumstances. 
I have looked at the letter she has said she found in the street to evidence post is not 
delivered in her area. However, that letter wasnt correctly addressed  there was just a flat 
number and a street name; no house number or building name. If that letter hadnt been 
delivered correctly, that may well be the reason, but that is not the same situation as the 
letter from Barclays to Ms S.
I can understand Ms S wanting to keep the total borrowing limit she was given at the time 
she was sold her mortgage, especially given her job loss in 2018. However, the lender is 
entitled under the mortgage contract to vary the arrangement if it considers it needs to or it 
would be appropriate to do so. Ms S wasnt at the time using the full overdraft facility and 
given she was more than halfway through her mortgage term, with no apparent plan to pay 
back what had at times been a very significant overdraft debt, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Barclays to limit the amount of debt it allowed her to get into going forward. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 
29 October 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman