DRN-2831633
The complaint
Ms H complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim she made under her 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H made a claim under her pet insurance policy after her cat fell ill and needed treatment 
around September 2020. Pinnacle declined the claim after deciding that the illness related to 
a pre-existing condition that Ms Hs cat had suffered prior to the commencement of the 
policy.
Ms H disagreed and complained to Pinnacle. She felt her cat fell ill because of a different 
reason and didnt agree that the illness was due to a pre-existing condition. Pinnacle referred 
to historic veterinary (vet) notes and had its own vet technician review the claim  the insurer 
stood by its decision to decline the claim because it felt the illness was due to a pre-existing 
condition.
Ms H asked this service to review the matter  our investigator felt the insurer had acted 
fairly when it declined the claim for this reason. Ms H didnt agree and feels the policy should 
cover this claim. As Ms H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators opinion that Pinnacle hasnt acted unfairly here  
Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy explain that Pinnacle will not pay claims for any condition or 
symptom that has been looked in to by a vet before the policy started. Ms Hs pet insurance 
policy began in February 2020.
Its unclear exactly what may have initiated this period of illness that Ms Hs cat suffered. 
Ms H seems to have had her cat seen by different vets throughout the course of treating this 
illness. And, although Ms H submits that one of the vets suggested that the illness wasnt 
triggered by something related to a pre-existing condition  I havent seen any vet notes to 
validate this.
The vet history that Ive seen from before the policy began and that Pinnacle has made 
reference to, seems to list multiple vet visits for similar medical issues. So it seems to me 
that Ms Hs cat often fell ill for similar reasons or showed symptoms that appear to be 
related. On balance, having considered the vet notes for Ms Hs cat, I think the insurer acted 
fairly when it decided that the illness related to this claim is linked to a pre-existing condition. 
So I dont think Pinnacle acted unfairly when it declined the claim and I wont be asking it to 
do anything differently because of this.
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint against Pinnacle Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman