DRN-3402766
The complaint
Mr C complains Lloyds Bank PLC have treated him unfairly by refusing his mortgage 
application to consolidate his unsecured borrowing.
What happened
In around August 2021 Mr C approached Lloyds for a mortgage. He wanted to borrow 
enough to repay his existing mortgage with another lender and consolidate unsecured debt 
totalling around £17,000. He had some unsecured borrowing with Lloyds. His existing 
mortgage and the rest of his unsecured lending was with another lender in the same group 
of companies as Lloyds. Mr C had been getting letters about his persistent debt. And he felt 
consolidating his debt into a mortgage would be a sensible way to resolve things.
Mr C applied to Lloyds three times. They discussed Mr Cs financial situation and 
circumstances with him to see whether they could give him a mortgage decision in principle. 
But his applications were declined at that stage on grounds he didnt pass Lloyds credit 
score requirements. And Lloyds said the minimum £25,000 loan they were offering at the 
time was unaffordable under their lending criteria. They calculated he could only afford a 
loan of around £5,200 based on the information he provided. 
Mr C complained. He felt Lloyds had treated him unfairly in not agreeing his proposals when 
he was trying to address his overall financial situation with the group. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, so he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator was satisfied Lloyds had considered Mr Cs application fairly. And she said, 
broadly, since Lloyds had declined the application for commercial reasons, we couldnt 
interfere with that decision. Since Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, his complaints 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for all the information Mr C and Lloyds have provided. I may not mention here 
everything theyve told the Financial Ombudsman. No discourtesy is intended. It reflects the 
informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I think are the key issues in      
Mr Cs complaint. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Cs difficult personal circumstances and health issues. And I 
acknowledge the efforts hes made to address his debt. I can understand it was 
disappointing Lloyds werent prepared to give him a mortgage when he felt that would 
resolve his situation. I appreciate he feels Lloyds have acted unfairly.
In essence, Mr Cs concern is that Lloyds unfairly exercised their commercial judgment when 
they decided not to offer him a mortgage to consolidate his debt. I cant tell lenders whether 
or not to offer their customers mortgages. They are entitled to use their commercial 
judgment. I can consider whether they apply their commercial judgment fairly and 
reasonably  but I cant substitute my judgment for theirs.
In considering whether to lend, Lloyds, like other lenders, apply their own lending criteria. 
They are entitled to do that. Generally, those criteria include a wide range of things. And 
each lender will decide how much weight to give each one. They may include, for example, 
the customers credit history, employment history and address history as well as their own 
attitude to risk. When considering affordability, the lender may apply criteria that go beyond 
the Financial Conduct Authority rules they have to follow. The information the lender gathers 
will be used to determine an internal credit score for the person applying.
Lloyds explained they refused Mr Cs application on grounds of his credit score, other credit 
information and other information they had about him. They allocated him a score based on 
that information. They said it didnt mean Mr C was a bad payer  just that he didnt fit their 
risk profile at the time. They explained they could only take part of his income into account in 
assessing affordability and hed failed their affordability requirements. 
I can understand why Mr C disputed Lloyds finding that the mortgage he wanted would be 
unaffordable for him. Hed calculated hed save around £300 on monthly loan payments if he 
could consolidate his debt; hed always managed to pay his unsecured debts each month 
except during the coronavirus pandemic when he was temporarily out of work and reached 
his credit card limits; there was significant equity in his property; and he had a good credit 
score with credit reference agencies. 
I know Mr Cs disputed Lloyds claim the minimum amount they were prepared to lend at the 
time was £25,000. Lloyds have provided evidence that was the case. But I dont think it 
affects Mr Cs position since the most Lloyds may have been prepared to lend him, subject 
to him making a full application, was around £5,200. And that wasnt enough to consolidate 
his debts.
It isnt unfair or unreasonable for a lender to look at all the information about a customer and 
decide the loan may be unaffordable based on its own lending criteria. Im satisfied Lloyds 
gave fair consideration to Mr Cs applications in reaching their decision. They gathered 
detailed information about his financial and personal circumstances. When his applications 
for a decision in principle were declined, they let Mr C know how he could appeal that 
decision to their underwriters. Im not aware he did that. Even if he did, I havent seen 
anything to suggest Lloyds applied their lending criteria incorrectly in Mr Cs case. Whilst I 
understand Mr C feels Lloyds should help with the debt he owes to the wider group of 
companies, I cant direct Lloyds to give Mr C a mortgage. 
I appreciate Mr C would like to understand more about why Lloyds declined his application.  
Lloyds explained the broad reasons for their decision and gave Mr C information about how 
they assess credit scoring. But their lending criteria are commercially sensitive, and I cant 
reasonably require Lloyds to share detailed information about them. So, I wont ask them to 
provide further explanation about why they declined Mr Cs application. I think the 
explanation they provided to him was fair in the circumstances.
Whilst I understand my decision will be disappointing for Mr C, bearing everything in mind, I 
dont uphold his complaint. Mr Cs circumstances may have changed since he applied to 
Lloyds for a mortgage last year. He could consider making a new application now, although 
theres no guarantee it would succeed. In any event Id encourage him to seek independent 
financial advice about the best way to address his unsecured debt.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman