DRN-3584663
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc increased the interest rate on its 
overdraft, didnt respond to its questions about this and delayed a refund of the fee.
What happened
L had an existing overdraft with HSBC. It received a letter about the renewal in October 2020 
which set out that the interest margin would be more than doubled. L contacted HSBC and 
was told that the branch had no discretion. L didnt receive an answer from the central team 
before the overdraft was renewed and a fee of £375 charged. L wasnt satisfied with the lack 
of any explanation and the delay in communication from HSBC. The overdraft has now been 
cancelled and the fee returned.
HSBC said it had made a commercial decision to increase the interest rate and wouldnt be 
negotiating about that. It had offered to refund the fee and pay L £50 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC pay L a total of £200 in compensation. Although 
the branch had said it would refer Ls query to the central team in November 2020, this didnt 
happen. L had continued to contact HSBC and didnt receive any answer before the fee was 
charged and the overdraft renewed. On 11 February 2021 HSBC had issued a final 
response stating that the rates couldnt be negotiated. L further complained that the fee had 
already been charged. On 30 June 2021 HSBC said that L could cancel the overdraft and 
receive a fee refund and a return of the directors personal guarantee. It offered 
compensation of £50. L wrote on 4 October 2021 and said it had been unable to contact 
HSBC by phone and wanted its fee and the personal guarantee returned. On 30 October 
2021 it was unhappy to receive a renewal letter for the following year. And on 15 November 
2021 HSBC said that it hadnt been clear L also wanted the overdraft limit removed. L 
confirmed its position about the overdraft limit and HSBC dealt with this on 12 January 2022 
and said it wouldnt be providing any further compensation.
She said that L had taken action in response to the renewal letter of October 2020 as it had 
been asked to do. And so, it wasnt reasonable that it be renewed without further contact.  
Having said that once it had been put in place L reasonably needed to confirm that the limit 
itself was no longer required. HSBC took too long to deal with Ls communication, and this 
caused inconvenience. She knew that L had asked for £500 but said that we wouldnt be 
using Ls professional rates and making a punitive award. And there had been other ways 
apart from letter to contact HSBC which might have got a quicker response.
L didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The director that represents it said 
he was disappointed at the lack of any further compensation. He had tried to use the direct 
form of communication through telephone and hadnt had success in branch. Thats why 
hed been writing letters and he felt he was being blamed for failings that were HSBCs. The 
compensation doesnt address his professional rates for L, and it took three letters before 
the personal guarantee was returned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out the key dates and letters above. I agree that it was reasonable to 
expect HSBC to contact L further about the interest rate before it was applied. That seemed 
to be the reason for the advance notification of the renewal. The letter L had received about 
this did direct it to either phone or branch contact. And it relied on the branch to progress this 
and reminded staff about this several times.
HSBC had made its position clear about the rate by February 2021. There was no 
negotiation. L further complained that by then the renewal had taken place. And I note it had 
to wait until June 2021 before an offer was made about this. That offer asked L to phone to 
say if it wanted the overdraft to be removed. I appreciate it says it did try. But it didnt write 
about this until October 2021 and I agree that it didnt explicitly state that it wanted the 
overdraft removed. It stated in a letter that We wish our overdraft fee returned along with 
our personal guarantee and it said it didnt think that the compensation was reasonable. 
That led to a further final response.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and as our investigator says we dont make 
punitive awards or generally apply professional rates when thinking about time spent and 
inconvenience. We publish guidelines about compensation and here the complainant is L, a 
company and separate legal entity that cant suffer distress. As Ive explained above things 
could have been resolved sooner and I note the further contact that L made during the 
period. And being direct I think that after 30 June 2021 L didnt promptly give clear 
instructions to HSBC. 
Ive balanced all these factors in making my assessment and having done so I consider that 
the amount recommended by our investigator is reasonable to reflect the inconvenience 
caused by HSBC. I appreciate that the director will be disappointed by my assessment. 
I understand that the £50 originally offered hasnt yet been paid. And I make clear that the 
total amount of compensation for L is £200.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay L a total of 
£200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman