DRN-3140725
The complaint
Mr F complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) wrongly invested his 
pension fund - and then wrongly disinvested it - which has meant that Mr F has crystallised 
investment losses.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 12 October 2021, in which I set out my 
reasons for why I thought the case should be upheld. In summary, I considered that, if 
properly informed that his pension funds had already been invested, Mr F wouldnt have 
chosen to move them into cash. And I recommended that SJP compensate Mr F 
accordingly.   
A copy of that provisional decision is set out below, beginning with the background to the 
complaint:
In late 2019, SJP advised Mr F in connection with the transfer of two pensions to an SJP 
retirement account. He transferred benefits from a personal pension and from an ex-
employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) - a defined benefit scheme. Mr F says he 
wanted to invest the personal pension proceeds (about one third of the total investment) in 
medium risk funds, and the defined benefit scheme proceeds in low risk funds. But he says 
SJP invested the funds in the reverse of this.
The proceeds from the defined benefit scheme arrived with SJP on 6 March 2020. SJP told 
Mr F the money would take three to five working days to clear, and Mr F says he took this to 
mean it would be retained in cash during that time. Financial markets were starting to fall 
due to the emerging situation with Covid-19 and Mr F said he wanted to discuss the 
investment strategy with SJP.
The fund proceeds were, in fact, invested on 6 March 2020 in line with Mr Fs investment 
strategy. SJP contacted Mr F on 16 March 2020 but couldnt confirm how his fund was held 
at that time. Mr F says he was still under the impression the fund was in cash. He sent an 
email to SJP to say the funds derived of the defined benefit transfer should be retained in 
cash, which SJP took as an instruction to disinvest. Mr Fs pension fund value fell by around 
£87,000 in the intervening period.
SJP accepted it shouldnt have told Mr F that the transferred funds would take three to five 
working days to be invested, and that this had been an oversight. But SJP didnt consider 
this had resulted in any financial loss to Mr F. 
SJP said it hadnt given Mr F any advice about converting the fund to cash, and had acted 
on his instructions on 16 March 2020. So it didnt consider it had contributed to any loss 
caused as a result of the switch.
Mr F wasnt happy with SJPs response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the personal pension proceeds had been invested in line with the investment strategy 
recommended by SJP in 2019.
The investigator didnt think that SJPs suitability report said that the defined benefit scheme 
proceeds would be invested in low risk funds. He said the report recommended twelve 
different funds, two of which were low risk with the remainder being medium risk. The report 
indicated Mr F had agreed with this strategy, and the investigator was satisfied the defined 
benefit transfer proceeds had been invested in line with the report.
The investigator accepted there may have been some confusion about the status of Mr Fs 
money following SJPs email of 6 March 2020. But he said that, when the phone call he was 
expecting from SJP didnt happen, it would have been reasonable for Mr F to contact SJP if 
he was concerned about the fund. The investigator was satisfied that the fund had been 
invested in line with Mr Fs instructions. 
In light of SJPs information that the funds would be invested within three to five working 
days, the investigator considered it reasonable for Mr F to have known the funds were 
invested by 16 March 2020. The investigator also noted that Mr F was concerned about 
volatility in the markets. So he thought that, if Mr F had known the fund was invested, he 
would have still given instructions to convert to cash to protect against further losses. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He provided an email from SJP which 
showed the investment strategy was to invest one third of his overall fund in medium risk 
funds, and two thirds in low risk funds. 
He also said the conversion to cash had incurred losses and Mr F considered this was 
unfair. He thought that SJP should have informed him of the loss situation before making the 
switch, so he could have made an informed decision. 
The investigator issued a second view on the matter, but he wasnt persuaded to change his 
overall conclusions. He accepted that SJPs email had said that two thirds of the fund would 
be invested in lower risk funds. But he also noted that the email in question pre-dated SJPs 
suitability report, and the investigator was satisfied that this was the document on which Mr 
Fs investment strategy was based.
The investigator remained of the view that SJP acted on Mr Fs execution-only instructions, 
which meant it didnt have to point out the encashment costs (or losses) to him. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said the suitability report didnt 
specify that hed agreed to change his investment strategy. 
Mr F said he didnt consider his instruction to retain the fund in cash was an instruction to 
incur encashment losses. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so 
the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly note that Mr F has complained about the execution of the investment strategy, rather 
than any advice to transfer his plans in the first place. As such, my focus will be on these 
matters. But if my understanding of Mr Fs complaint is incorrect, he should let me know in 
response to this decision. Investment Strategy
Mr F says his intention was always to invest one third of the overall fund in medium risk 
funds, and the remainder in low risk funds. And I accept that the email from SJP dated 22 
October 2019 suggests this was the case.
But SJP also produced a recommendation letter in connection with the personal pension 
dated 13 November 2019. It then produced a suitability report sent in December 2019 in 
connection with the defined benefit scheme transfer. 
Both the recommendation letter and suitability report said:
You confirmed you are a medium risk investor on our risk spectrum. You want your capital 
to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least five years. You want the potential to 
achieve better long-term returns and are comfortable with most of your capital being 
invested in equities and property, some of it overseas. 
The recommendation letter continued as follows:
I recommended the above fund range because you wanted to split your investments 1/3 into 
non equity and lower risk investments such as fixed income securities, and 2/3 into well 
diversified equity-based funds.
The suitability report identified twelve funds for the investment of the defined benefit scheme 
proceeds. Two of these were listed as Lower-Medium risk, and the remainder as Medium 
risk. 
The report continued by saying:
Having reviewed the funds available and the geographical focus of such funds, we agreed 
via consensus on the above fund selection and allocation to each of those funds.
Therefore, despite the content of SJPs October 2019 email, and bearing in mind the overall 
amount of Mr Fs investment, I think its likely the investment strategy would have evolved 
during a number of discussions between him and SJP. And on balance, I think its likely that 
the recommendation and suitability letter accurately recorded what had been agreed with Mr 
F. 
So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that SJP made Mr F aware of the basis on which he 
would be investing the proceeds of both funds. And if Mr F disagreed with the proposed 
strategy, I think it would have been reasonable to expect him to say so following receipt of 
the suitability report. Im also satisfied that the investments were made in line with the 
agreed investment strategy. 
Investment of defined benefit scheme proceeds
When SJP received the transfer from Mr Fs defined benefit scheme it sent him an email that 
said:
It will now take 3-5 working days for the funds to clear and you will receive written 
confirmation from us when it does.
Mr F replied straight away, saying:Can you call me next week to discuss investment strategy.
Being mindful of impact of coronavirus on the markets.
SJP said:
Yes of course, lets speak next week. It is a great time to be entering the markets, so it is 
lucky the funds are coming over now.
SJP accepts that it was wrong to mention the three to five day timeframe for investment, 
given that the funds would be invested upon receipt. But it says Mr F knew what the 
investment strategy was, and that it invested the funds in line with that strategy.
Ive noted what SJP has said. But I also note that its email referred to the funds being 
cleared rather than invested. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr F to assume that 
the money would be held in cash for three to five days, after which it would be invested once 
it had cleared.
Im also mindful that SJP said Mr F would receive written confirmation once the money had 
cleared. He didnt receive anything. Again, in light of the emails wording, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to assume that the money would remain in cash until he received that 
confirmation.
Its unfortunate that SJP cant provide a copy of the phone call it had with Mr F on 16 March 
2020. I understand that, at that point, SJP couldnt confirm how Mr Fs investment was held, 
so it couldnt tell him whether or not the money had been invested. But following that call Mr 
F sent SJP an email that said:
As discussed please retain the [defined benefit] monies in a guaranteed cash position.
The existing investments to stay as they are.
SJP took this to mean that Mr F wanted to move his funds into cash. The investments had 
already been made, so SJP disinvested them, which incurred the losses.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr F was under the impression his funds were already in 
cash when he spoke to SJP on 16 March. I agree with the investigators conclusions on this 
and I think the position is supported by Mr Fs instructions to retain the monies in cash.
But the investigator thought that, if Mr F had known the investments had already been made, 
he wouldve still gone ahead and converted them to cash.
Would Mr F have acted differently?
When I take account of the position overall, I think SJP should have told Mr F on 6 March 
2020 that his funds would be invested that day in line with his investment strategy. As this is 
what would always have happened, I dont think that Mr F would have had the opportunity to 
tell SJP that he wanted the funds to be held in cash instead. Instead of saying that the funds 
were yet to clear, it should have confirmed that they had been invested in line with the 
agreed strategy. 
But I then need to consider, as did the investigator, what it is Mr F is more likely than not to 
have done in terms of an investment strategy, had he been accurately informed of the 
situation, both on 6 March 2020 and later on 16 March 2020.My initial thoughts on this were that it was unlikely that Mr F would have transferred into 
cash at that point. Markets were turbulent from early March 2020 onwards, and were 
continuing to fall by 16 March 2020. If Mr F moved to cash he would have crystallised his 
losses.
Mr F was clearly concerned about the volatility of financial markets, but my view was that the 
planned investment strategy would reasonably indicate that Mr F had what Id consider to be 
a fairly pragmatic approach to investing, rather than one of outright and absolute caution. In 
light of that, I didnt think that Mr F would have moved his pension funds into cash in the 
knowledge that this would crystallise existing losses. I thought it was more likely than not 
that, properly informed, Mr F would have decided to leave matters as they were, in the hope 
that any later recovery in financial markets would recoup the paper losses at that point. 
But at my request, the investigator has enquired of Mr F as to what he has done with his 
pension funds since. Mr F confirmed that his pension funds remain in cash, and when further 
asked as to why this was the case, Mr F has said that this reflected his concerns for the 
market and that his investment instruction to SJP had been to not speculate with his money.
This makes the matter of how Mr F would have reacted, once the funds had been invested 
and had incurred losses, more difficult to decide. As Ive concluded above, I dont think the 
agreed investment strategy was one of outright caution, and Im satisfied that Mr Fs funds 
were invested as planned. 
The unforeseen volatility and decline in financial markets due to the emerging Covid-19 
situation was incredibly unfortunate in terms of timing for Mr F, but I cant fairly hold SJP 
responsible for that.
But although I think Mr Fs attitude towards any kind of market exposure may have swiftly 
altered once he realised that his pension funds had already incurred losses  as has been 
reflected by him retaining the pension funds in cash since  my view on his likely actions if 
hed been made aware of the losses already incurred remains that he wouldnt have 
transferred into cash.
Had his pension funds remained in cash when transferred, I think he would have maintained 
that position, for the time being, as was later indicated in a phone call with SJP. But I dont 
think Mr F would have crystallised existing losses. Mr F was clearly interested in movements 
in financial markets, and I think this is consistent with what Ive said above about a degree of 
financial pragmatism in Mr Fs decision making.
Ive also taken into account Mr Fs comment in his instruction of 16 March 2020 that, 
although he wished to retain the proceeds from the OPS transfer in what he thought were 
existing cash positions (which in fact prompted the switch into cash), he asked that the other 
investments remain as they were. 
And so I think, on balance, its more likely than not that Mr F would have retained all of his 
investments as they were when he became aware of the losses already incurred, had he not 
been of the view that the funds derived of the OPS transfer were still retained in cash. 
Potential mitigation of Mr Fs position
It follows, therefore, that I think SJP is responsible for the losses incurred by that switch into 
cash. But Ive also thought about steps which Mr F could, or perhaps arguably should, have 
taken since to mitigate that position of loss. It might reasonably be argued for example that, 
had Mr F re-entered financial markets at a point since March 2020, he could have 
participated in market recovery.But Ive also thought about the likely effect on Mr F of having witnessed his pension funds 
immediately losing some £90,000 as soon as he transferred them from a previously 
guaranteed environment. And I think this would have caused Mr F no small amount of alarm. 
So when thinking about how Mr F ought perhaps to have acted in the time since that point, I 
dont think its necessarily unreasonable, or even unexpected, that an individual in that 
position would seek to maintain a cautious stance with a view to preserving the residual 
value of his pension funds.
I dont therefore think that Mr F should have acted differently in terms of his investment 
strategy since March 2020.
Putting things right
And so, on that basis, my current view is that SJP should calculate, as at the date of any 
subsequent final decision, the notional current value of the funds which were transferred into 
cash, had they remained invested in the agreed pension funds. 
If that value is greater than the current actual value of those pension funds, then SJP should, 
if possible, make a payment into Mr Fs pension policy to make up the loss, taking into 
account any charges, annual allowance and available tax relief.
If that isnt possible, or such a payment wouldnt be possible due to annual allowance or 
lifetime allowance protection issues, the amount should be paid directly to Mr F, but with a 
notional deduction for the income tax (assumed to be basic rate) which Mr F would pay in 
retirement on 75% of the compensation (allowing for tax free cash). 
In response to the provisional decision, Mr F said he accepted my findings. SJP partially did 
so, but also wished to comment further on Mr Fs likely investment strategy had he not 
thought his defined benefit transfer proceeds had remained in cash. 
It said the following in summary:
It noted that the proposed outcome seemed to revolve around the emails between Mr 
F and SJP in March 2020. It didnt think there was an indication from Mr F as to a 
specific intention for the investment of the defined benefit transfer proceeds.
It didnt necessarily agree that Mr F would have inferred from the email conversation 
that his pension funds would remain in cash for three to five days upon receipt, after 
which they would be invested. The terms and conditions for the retirement account 
clearly said that the funds would be invested upon receipt, rather than there being 
any holding period in cash.
SJP also thought that, had Mr F not thought he was instructing a switch of the 
defined benefit transfer proceeds, rather than instructing it to leave the existing 
investments as they were in the second part of his email, he would have simply 
instructed SJP to maintain all of his investments as they were. The fact that he 
separated the two would imply that he was making two distinct instructions.
SJP also re-submitted the call notes from 27 March 2020, in which it felt it was 
demonstrated that Mr F gave no explicit instructions which would reasonably be 
understood to supersede the selected investment strategy. And having been told that 
this was a good time to invest, he didnt contradict this, as surely he would have done 
had he believed there was the prospect of postponing the investment.With regard to my view on Mr Fs likely investment strategy since March 2020, it was 
confused on this point as Mr  F, in the belief that he was invested in cash as at 16 
March 2020, apparently wished to remain out of the market. To therefore remove the 
likely cash investment aspect since March 2020 would be giving Mr F the benefit of 
hindsight  which was inconsistent with the argument hes presented.
Notwithstanding the fact that his second investment had already fallen in value by 16 
March 2020, his choice would suggest that he would have done nothing more than 
freezing the value of his pension funds at that point. This was inconsistent with the 
investment strategy I had said in my findings was reasonable to assume for Mr F.
In terms of my comments relating to whether Mr F could or should have mitigated his 
losses since, SJP said that according to Mr F there was no investment strategy any 
more and that his funds were invested in cash and would remain there. SJP was 
therefore uncomfortable with the notion that Mr F would have opted to ride out the 
market falls of 10-15% which were not uncommon in financial markets during the 
early stages of the pandemic. It thought that Mr Fs actual decision to remain 
invested in cash strongly suggested that he wouldnt have remained in invested in the 
original strategy when he witnessed the markets falling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional comments from SJP. I do acknowledge that the 
terms and conditions may have made it clear that the funds would be invested immediately 
upon receipt as per the agreed investment strategy. But Im also mindful of the likelihood that 
Mr F would have placed more immediate store in what hed been told by the SJP 
representative, in that it would take three to five working days for the funds to clear. And 
that he would receive confirmation once they had done so. 
Mr F didnt receive that confirmation and so, as I set out in the provisional decision, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for him to have believed that the funds remained in cash, pending 
investment. That Mr F believed this to be the case was further supported by his comment on 
16 May 2020 that he wanted the defined benefit transfer proceeds to be retained in cash  
rather than moved or switched to cash. And the comment that he wanted his pension money 
retained in cash was a further opportunity for SJP to inform him that it had in fact already 
been invested in line with the agreed strategy.
As to the point regarding the separation within Mr Fs instruction, I dont think this supports 
SJPs position. I agree that Mr F was making two separate instructions, but on the 
understanding that part of his money had already been invested (the earlier transfer from 
Aegon) and that the remainder (from the defined benefits transfer) remained in cash. He 
wanted the former to remain invested in pension funds, and the latter to be retained in cash 
for the time being.
I also agree that, in line with the terms and conditions, the funds would have been invested  
and in fact already had been immediately upon receipt. But I think the information Mr F was 
given would have reasonably given him the impression that they hadnt. He may not have 
said anything specific about the planned investment strategy, but I think he reasonably 
thought a further conversation might occur about it before any move out of cash was made.
As to the point about Mr Fs investment strategy after March 2020, I think theres a possible 
blurring of the lines here between what Mr F did do and what he would have done had he: in the first instance not been under the impression that his funds remained in cash; and in the 
second instance, instead been told that they had in fact already been invested in pension 
funds.
So to further explain my thinking on this, had Mr F been properly informed that his 
transferred pension money had all been invested by 16 March 2020, I think its more likely 
than not that he wouldnt have wanted to crystallise losses at that point by moving into cash. 
And this is supported by his instruction relating to the money transferred from Aegon which 
he knew had already been invested in pension funds  i.e. leave them as they were. Mr F 
knew that he would have already suffered some losses on those invested funds, but chose 
not to crystallise those losses and instructed SJP to leave them as they were. 
And Mr F only asked that the pension money from the defined benefit transfer be retained in 
cash because he thought it was in cash  hence the word retain rather than switch. Had 
he known that it had already been invested in pension funds, it seems logical to me that he 
would have treated it as he did the proceeds from the Aegon transfer  and so wouldnt have 
crystallised any losses at that point.
Its obviously difficult to know what Mr F would have done after that from the hypothetical 
position that his defined benefit transfer proceeds had remained in cash  but retaining them 
in cash might in any case not have been an unreasonable course of action. To begin with, 
his pension plan would have been some £90,000 better off, due to the investment strategy 
not having yet been implemented. And Mr F may then have capitalised on a subsequent 
investment into funds with diminished unit prices.
This is, of course, supposition. The reality is that Mr Fs transferred funds had been invested 
as planned, and in line with the terms and conditions, but in answer to the point made by 
SJP as to my proposed remedy providing Mr F with the benefit of hindsight, the above is 
nevertheless an exploration of the possibilities open to a pragmatic investor such as Mr F, 
had the proceeds from the defined benefit transfer not already been invested. Had the 
hypothetical situation of the funds not having been invested existed, Mr F might be in an 
altogether better position.
And I think this also feeds into the last point made by SJP about any action Mr F could, or 
should, have taken to mitigate his position. Its impossible to know for certain what he would 
have done had his pension funds remained in cash. But I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Mr F, having witnessed the actual loss, rather than hypothetical situation, arising from the 
mistaken crystallisation to the tune of around £90,000 in March 2020, to have then taken a 
slightly more cautious approach with the remainder of his pension funds.
But what I think I can in any case be more certain of, on the basis of what I think is more 
likely than not to have been the case, is that, as with the Aegon transfer proceeds which he 
knew had already been invested into pension funds, he wouldnt have wanted to crystallise 
the losses incurred on the defined benefit transfer proceeds, had he known they too had 
already been invested. SJP has confirmed that the funds transferred from Aegon have 
remained invested as they were. And so I think, as with the funds transferred from Aegon, he 
would more likely than not have opted to ride out the market turbulence with all of his 
pension funds, had he known that theyd all been invested.
It follows, therefore, that my view on the outcome of complaint, and how Mr Fs position 
should be remedied, remains as set out within the provisional decision.
Putting things rightSt. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should calculate, as at the date of this decision, 
the notional current value of the funds which were transferred into cash, had they remained 
invested in the agreed pension funds. 
If that value is greater than the current actual value of those pension funds, then St. James's 
Place Wealth Management Plc should, if possible, make a payment into Mr Fs pension 
policy to make up the loss, taking into account any charges, annual allowance and available 
tax relief.
If that isnt possible, or such a payment wouldnt be possible due to annual allowance or 
lifetime allowance protection issues, the amount should be paid directly to Mr F, but with a 
notional deduction for the income tax (assumed, as in the provisional decision, to be basic 
rate) which Mr F would pay in retirement on 75% of the compensation (allowing for tax free 
cash). 
Payment of any loss should be made within 28 days of St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc being notified of Mr Fs acceptance of this decision. If it isnt, simple 
interest at 8% pa should be applied to any loss amount from the date of this decision to the 
date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc to undertake the above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman