DRN-4504265
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as LiveLend acted
irresponsibly when it provided him with a £5,000 loan in April 2022.
Background
Mr C applied for, and was given, a £5,000 loan from Chetwood Financial in April 2022. The
term of the loan was 42 months and Mr C was required to repay a total of £7,328.47.
Mr C has told us that at the time he took out the loan he had taken out six other loans in
quick succession and was relying on credit cards and his overdraft to meet his monthly
outgoings. He has said that he had a history of missed payments at this time as well.
Chetwood Financial has said that it ran all the necessary and required checks at the time Mr
C applied for the loan. It said that his credit file showed only one credit card and no missed
payments. It believed that the loan was affordable and has provided evidence to substantiate
that claim. As it didnt think it was wrong to provide the loan to Mr C it didnt uphold his
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 2023. In it I said that Id not seen sufficient 
evidence from Mr C to support his allegation that the loan wasnt affordable. So even though 
I thought the checks completed by Chetwood Financial couldve been more thorough I didnt 
uphold the complaint. I asked both parties to respond by 8 December 2023 after which time I 
would reconsider any additional information or comments. 
Chetwood Financial confirmed it had nothing further to add.
Mr C responded to the provisional decision saying he disagreed with my findings. He 
provided a copy of his credit file from March 2022 to support his allegation that the lending 
was unaffordable. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the information provided by Mr C, Im still of the 
opinion that there was nothing to indicate to Chetwood Financial that the lending was 
unaffordable. I know this will come as disappointment to Mr C so Id like to explain my 
reasoning.
In his response to the provisional decision Mr C said that he had missed a number of 
payments to existing credit providers before applying for the loan with Chetwood Finance.
Having reviewed the file I can see that Mr C had two credit cards. The first was just over its 
limit (at 101%) and the second one had some missed payments showing in the statement 
history. However, these missed payments were from July and August 2021 and so some 
eight to nine months prior to this lending. Since then, the card had been well maintained and 
there were no other missed payments.
All the other active accounts on Mr Cs credit file were up to date. In addition to this I can see 
that in February 2022, shortly before taking out the loan with Chetwood Finance Mr C 
appears to have been approved for a mortgage. While I still accept the checks that were 
completed by Chetwood Finance couldve been better, I dont think its likely that he wouldve 
been approved for a new mortgage deal less than two months prior to applying for the loan if 
he had been showing signs of financial instability. 
Therefore while I appreciate Mr C sending us his credit file, I still dont think that evidence of 
some arrears on one of his credit cards, over eight months prior to applying for the loan with 
Chetwood Finance was enough to demonstrate that the loan wasnt affordable. Which 
means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Chetwood Financial 
Limited trading as LiveLend. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman