DRN-2523814
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly used his 
endowment policy to clear the arrears on his interest only mortgage. He wants Virgin Money 
to write off the original sum borrowed.
Mr S also says that he didnt consent to the mortgage term being extended in 2011. And he 
wants Virgin Money to refund the amounts he has paid since then.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage for around £30,000 in 1984, over a 23 year term. The mortgage 
was on an interest only basis and with an endowment policy as the repayment vehicle.
Mr S took out additional borrowing of around £5,000 in 1989. This was also on an interest 
only basis and had a term of 19 years. The repayment vehicle for this was a separate 
endowment policy. And further borrowing was taken out in 1990 for £14,000. This was on a 
repayment basis and had a term of 25 years.
The mortgage fell into arrears. And in June 1995 the provider for the endowment policy 
backing the original loan notified Virgin Money that the policy had lapsed. The policy was 
surrendered and paid to the mortgage.
The term for the initial borrowing and further advance came to an end in 2009. And in July 
2011 after discussion between the parties the terms of these parts of the mortgage were 
extended by 10 years.
The further borrowing on a repayment basis was redeemed in March 2015. 
Mr S complained to Virgin Money in August 2019. He said that he hadnt been given any 
forewarning of the endowment policy being used to reduce the arrears on the initial 
borrowing. And he said he hadnt been given any reasons or advice. He also said that he 
hadnt agreed to the extension of his loan term in 2011.
Virgin Money didnt uphold his complaint and so Mr S referred it to this service.
Our investigator didnt feel that Virgin Money had acted unfairly. He said, in summary:
Virgin Money had explained that the policy was assigned to the mortgage so that 
when it was due to mature it would have been paid directly to the mortgage account. 
He understood that the policy lapsed in 1995 and the endowment provider contacted 
Virgin Money to make it aware this had happened. Once the endowment had lapsed 
this meant that there were no premiums being paid and the policy wouldnt be 
increasing in value  so it would no longer be able to repay the full balance owing on 
the initial borrowing;
Due to arrears building on the account and the fact that the policy had lapsed he 
didnt think it was unreasonable for the policy to have been surrendered and paid 
towards the mortgage account to reduce the arrears;
He appreciated that Mr S felt that Virgin Money should have done more at the time 
as he had no advice or guidance once his repayment vehicle was no longer in place. 
But hed seen a letter that Virgin Money had sent to Mr S in April 1994 in relation to a 
different policy. This explained that Mr S would need to look into a new repayment 
vehicle. And it highlighted that the capital would be outstanding at the end of its term 
and would need to be repaid. So he felt that this had been explained to Mr S;
The term for the initial borrowing and further advance came to an end in 2009. He 
could see that Mr S was sent numerous term end letters between 2009 and 2011. 
And there were discussions between Mr S and Virgin Money in July 2011. The 
investigator felt that, given Mr Ss circumstances at the time, it was suitable to extend 
the mortgage. And he could see that Virgin Money had checked affordability and 
looked at alternative options such as converting to repayment.
Even if Mr S hadnt agreed the extension the full balance for the initial borrowing and 
further advance would still need to be repaid. Mr S had said he wasnt in a position to 
repay this in 2011, so the investigator felt it was suitable to agree a term extension.
Mr S doesnt agree with our investigators view and so his complaint has been referred to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the circumstances to which this complaint relates took place some time ago. For 
this reason, the information available to me is limited in certain respects. In the 
circumstances, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having carefully considered the evidence and arguments available to me Ive come to the 
same decision as our investigator. I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mr S 
so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Surrender of endowment policy
Virgin Money has explained that this policy was assigned to the mortgage. From the 
information supplied to me Im persuaded that the policy lapsed in 1995, and the endowment 
provider contacted Virgin Money to make it aware of this. And Virgin Money responded and 
asked the provider to surrender the policy so it could pay the proceeds towards the 
mortgage account. Im satisfied that it took this action due to the arrears building on the 
account at the time. And, although I appreciate that Mr S doesnt agree, I am persuaded that 
it was not unreasonable for Virgin Money to take this action in the circumstances. As our 
investigator has explained, once the endowment policy had lapsed no further contributions 
would be paid to it and it would not be sufficient to pay off the borrowing at the end of the 
term. 
Mr S says that Virgin Money didnt give him forewarning, and didnt explain why it had 
surrendered the policy or give him any advice on what he should do. But Virgin Money says, 
and I accept, that it didnt give advice at that time. And as our investigator explained, the 
business had previously written to Mr S about another policy in April 1994. That letter 
explained that where a policy lapsed the capital on the mortgage would be outstanding at the 
end of the term and would need to be repaid. And it also said that in those circumstances Mr 
S would need to look into a new repayment vehicle. So Im persuaded that Mr S should have 
been aware of the consequences of the endowment policy being surrendered. I appreciate that Mr S feels that Virgin Money should have given him the opportunity to 
reinstate the policy, as it did with the other policy in 1994. But although Ive considered what 
he has to say I dont agree. Im satisfied, on balance, that Virgin Money didnt act 
unreasonably when it asked the insurer to pay the policy to the mortgage.
Term extension
Mr S is also unhappy that Virgin Money extended the term of the interest only part of his 
mortgage by 10 years. He says he didnt agree to the term extension.
Ive reviewed the evidence available to me from the time. I can see that the term expired in 
2009. And Virgin Money wrote to Mr S on a number of occasions. Mr S spoke to Virgin 
Money in July 2011 to discuss his options. He said in particular that a repayment mortgage 
wouldnt be affordable. Virgin Money confirmed that a 10 year extension would be possible. 
And it wrote to Mr S setting out the details of the possible extension. Mr S replied and 
confirmed that he wasnt able to repay the mortgage at that time. And the term extension 
was subsequently put into place in accordance with the terms of Virgin Moneys letter.
As our investigator explained, whether or not Mr S agreed to the term extension interest 
would have continued to be charged on the outstanding mortgage. And, in the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that Virgin Money made an error by implementing the 
term extension, or that Mr S has suffered any loss because of this.
The outstanding balance of Mr Ss mortgage is now due to be repaid. I expect Virgin Money 
to take account of Mr Ss circumstances, particularly in light of how he has been affected by 
the pandemic, when taking steps to collect the balance. Mr S will need to engage with Virgin 
Money about how he will be able to repay the mortgage now the term has expired.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman