DRN-3063131
The complaint
Mrs S has complained Black Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services, 
granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford.
What happened
In September 2018 Mrs S traded in her existing car and bought another under a hire 
purchase agreement. This new car was to cost her more than £560 a month for a four year 
period. Shed confirmed her average annual mileage was 6,125 so her mileage allowance 
was set at 24,505.
In July 2019 Mrs S contacted Land Rover Financial Services. Shed recently got a new job 
and was expecting  to travel consistently more so was concerned that she needed a better 
mileage allowance. She was also struggling financially and felt that she should never have 
been offered the agreement.
Land Rover didnt agree with this assessment as they felt theyd carried out appropriate 
checks at the time which showed the agreement was affordable. Mrs S brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed Mrs Ss bank statements and finances. Overall she felt Land 
Rover hadnt done enough checks and the agreement wasnt affordable or sustainable. She 
believed Land Rover should bring the agreement to an end, collect the car, refund all 
payments in excess of £400 a month, along with 8% simple interest.
Mrs S noted the figure quoted for her monthly income was widely off the mark. At the time 
she was earning around £700 a month less. However overall she accepted this outcome.
Land Rover didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They believed Mrs S had a 
disposable income of £1,830 a month taking into account her mortgage costs and other 
living expenses.
They asked an ombudsman to consider Mrs Ss complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 18 August 2021. Overall I believed the hire purchase 
agreement was affordable so I wasnt going to ask Land Rover to do anything further.
Mrs S raised further points in response:
She didnt believe Land Rover had been at all helpful throughout what had happened 
and could have done significantly more to sort out her concerns;
She wondered how the lack of proper checks by Land Rover was to be addressed;
She felt the agreement was in her sole name so didnt understand why joint income 
could be taken into account; and 
Whilst she was relieved it was accepted shed not lied about her income, she still 
thought shed been pressured by Land Rover.
No further response was received by Land Rover.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my 
provisional decision. I hope Ive also answered some of Mrs Ss concerns.
There are a number of different strands to this complaint. These include the complaint Mrs S 
made about the mileage allowance and the impact that was having on her. I dont doubt this 
has been causing her much concern. When she first wrote to Land Rover in July 2019, this 
was the issue she first mentioned. A new role would entail a lot more travelling which would 
considerably exceed her current mileage allowance.
Land Rover has since confirmed:
If the customer chooses to trade in the vehicle (part exchange it), the Guaranteed Final 
Value does not apply, nor does the excess mileage charge. If the customer trades the 
vehicle into a Dealer, the Dealer would determine the valuation of the vehicle for part 
exchange purposes.
Obviously higher mileage will lower the value of the car when its traded in against the 
outstanding finance, but Mrs S will have been paying a monthly charge related to a lower 
mileage so that only seems appropriate. It will have been difficult for Mrs S to know exactly 
what mileage allowance shed have required for the full length of the agreement but there is 
a way out of this issue although I appreciate it isnt cost free.
However the central part of Mrs Ss complaint is about unaffordability, and Ive concentrated 
on that.
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
Im also aware that our investigator completed a detailed view dated 24 November 2020. I 
will inevitably be repeating some of the same issues as my basis for considering whether 
Land Rover conducted proper checks uses the same criteria as our investigator despite me 
coming to a different outcome.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the affordability aspects of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Land Rover complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs S could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Land Rover act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?If I think Mrs S has been disadvantaged in any way by Land Rovers actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Land Rover complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Land Rover were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ss ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often 
referred to as an affordability check. This check has to be borrower-focussed. This means it 
needs to be concerned with whether Mrs S could sustainably afford the borrowing, rather 
than how statistically likely she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to Land Rover as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
Mrs S took out a hire purchase agreement with Land Rover. The total amount repayable in 
the agreement was over £59,000. The agreement was taken out in September 2018 for a 
four year period. The APR was 5.9% and Mrs S was paying over £560 a month. 
This was therefore a long-term and costly financial commitment. My starting point is that any 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been quite thorough.
Land Rover has provided us with details of the checks carried out prior to lending to Mrs S. 
These helped them to understand what Mrs Ss current credit commitments were and to see 
how she was managing them. Mrs S had a detailed credit history with a number of financial 
agreements, including credit cards and loans. A credit check shows these were managed 
effectively.
Land Rover has told us that they were aware of Mrs Ss annual salary of £48,650 a year. 
They estimated her take-home pay to be in excess of £3,000 a month. However Ive seen 
Mrs Ss bank statements from this period and this shows Mrs S was taking home about 
£2,300 a month. Land Rover believe this is the figure Mrs S provided to the dealer. But I very 
much doubt if this was the case. I cant see Mrs S would have said that. If thered been any 
further checks on her salary and bank statements, that lie would very quickly unravel so I 
cant see what shed gain from that. The inconsistency in the information Land Rover holds  
and what are the facts  may be explained as simply as human error at the dealers inputting 
her salary as £48,000 when £43,000 was closer to the reality.
I cant see that Land Rover undertook any income and expenditure check. Theyve shared 
with us the checks they did undertake as part of their lending assessment. These depend on generalised models and household data from the ONS rather than being specific to Mrs Ss 
financial situation.
So overall Im not satisfied they carried out checks that were proportionate to the credit being 
offered.
Mrs S has asked whether this aspect needs addressing. Our role at the ombudsman service 
is to look at individual complaints. Not whether a business is meeting their regulatory 
requirements. That is the responsibility of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority and 
not our service. 
If I believed that the inadequate checks led to a specific unfairness in Mrs Ss case then I 
may consider compensation a fair solution. However here I believe, as I show below, that 
Mrs S could afford the borrowing. As the inadequate checks had no major impact, 
compensation is not the fair approach.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs S could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Its clear that Mrs S said within a year of taking out the agreement, that she felt it was 
unaffordable. But Ive reviewed Mrs Ss financial situation at the time she took out the 
finance and I dont agree that it was unreasonable of Land Rover to offer the credit they did.
Mrs S held a joint bank account with her husband. Both of their salaries were paid into that 
account. Their joint financial commitments and household expenses were paid out (as well 
as small financial payments each month to their individual current accounts). Before Mrs S 
took out this hire purchase agreement, shed had a previous agreement for another car. This 
new agreement with Land Rover was costing her an additional £125 a month.
Its certainly true, as our investigator highlighted, that there were a few months prior to taking 
out this agreement when Mr and Mrs S were making high monthly payments to pay off their 
credit card bill. They used this account for a considerable amount of their regular and 
discretionary expenditure. This then left very little money in their current account. 
But it is not our role to dictate what someone should be spending their money on. And Mr 
and Mrs S had a level of income and expenditure which gave them choices. They could 
reduce their monthly discretionary spend or they could reduce the amount they paid off 
towards their credit card bill. I can see they repaid in full every month but the amount of their 
account varied considerably from month to month. One month it was £3,200 whilst another it 
was £1,270. 
The month they repaid £3,200, they had limited additional funds but I can see they only just 
went into their agreed overdraft facility that one month. This was more generally not the 
case.
We consider different criteria for assessing affordability. These include the proportion of 
disposable income thats used by the proposed credit, the proportion of overall income that 
is taken up by credit agreements as well as the ability of the customer to withstand any 
future economic shocks. Were also able to take into account joint salaries and financial 
commitments and Ive done that here. I know Mrs S has questioned this aspect. Shes right 
that the agreement was in her sole name but the regulatory criteria for assessing affordability 
allow us to look at joint income and expenditure.
Ive specifically assessed Mrs Ss ability to repay based on her actual salary (and financial 
commitments) rather than the salary Land Rover initially believed she had. I did ask Land Rover whether theyd have changed their view on whether the lending was affordable 
knowing her salary was £700 lower than they believed. They said they wouldnt have as they 
still believed she had a disposable income in excess of £1,000. Im not sure I specifically 
agree with the way theyve undertaken that assessment, but I dont disagree with the 
underlying principle.
Land Rover has said Mrs S continues to repay her hire purchase agreement and that this, in 
itself, suggests it is affordable. I would caution against such a blanket approach as I cant 
see Land Rover has carried out any investigation into whether Mrs S had to take out any 
additional borrowing to repay this financial commitment.
That said, I dont believe Land Rover did anything wrong here when granting Mrs S a hire 
purchase agreement. I believe the evidence shows Mrs S could afford to sustainably repay 
the borrowing without causing her financial hardship or the need to borrow further. 
Did Land Rover act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs S has raised the issue that she paid a deposit of £2,500 by credit card and that she was 
pressured into doing this to reduce her monthly payments. This payment also caused her 
issues in having to repay that debt. I think theres a couple of different aspects at play here.
I believe when part-exchanging her previous car, Mrs S had an outstanding balance to pay 
on the finance agreement. She made a payment of £2,500. £1,016 of that was a deposit 
towards her new car so I believe her outstanding balance must have been £1,484. This isnt 
mentioned on her hire purchase agreement with Land Rover but Im sure she will have 
paperwork to confirm this (presumably from her previous finance provider).  
Its certainly true that any upfront deposit would reduce Mrs Ss monthly payments but I cant 
see that was required from Land Rover when assessing her suitability for finance. So I dont 
think theres any evidence Land Rover acted unfairly.
Mrs S also raised a concern about a data protection breach but I believe this was most likely 
to have happened on paperwork she received from the dealership. Again I cant hold Land 
Rover responsible for this aspect.
Overall I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Land Rover to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Black 
Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman