DRN-3968313
The complaint
A, a limited company represented by its director Mr H, complains that Metro Bank PLC wont 
refund money it says it lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr H corresponded with a business (that Ill call L) that said it could teach him how to 
become a financial trader. He attended an initial free webinar but was encouraged to sign up 
for a subsequent session. He paid an initial £500 using a credit card issued by another 
financial business (and in his sole name). L said that hed need to pay a total of £2,995 to 
attend the webinar. Mr H wasnt sure about continuing but says L threatened theyd simply 
take the balance from his credit card. So, Mr H agreed to pay the balance - £2,495 from the 
account of A held at Metro Bank. 
He attended a webinar during which he was encouraged to pay a further £15,000 towards a 
long-term program with the company. Mr H paid the £15,000, again from the account of A at 
Metro, but he almost immediately had doubts about the payment. He tried to cancel with L 
but didnt receive his money back. So, he contacted Metro and it was able to recover the 
£15,000 directly from the bank which received it. However, it declined to refund or pursue 
the £2,495 as it said the matter was a civil dispute between A and L and therefore could not 
be considered under the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which would otherwise have required it to refund A 
unless certain exceptions could be demonstrated.
A referred the complaint to our service, but one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
acknowledged that Mr H had a poor experience with L but was satisfied it was a genuine 
business that couldnt fairly be described as a scam. 
Mr H restated that L was a scam and that he should be entitled to a refund because he 
cancelled the product within 14 days. He said L had no shopfloor, had owed another bank 
money since 2016 and has no employees. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided that this matter is a civil dispute between Mr H and L. That means Metro has no 
obligation to refund A under the CRM Code. It also has no obligation to protect A against 
bad bargains. 
In addition, Mr H appears to have used funds from A for a personal investment. Once Mr H 
removed funds from A and used them for a personal reason, they became his funds.  It 
doesnt matter whether A owed money to Mr H or he took money from it as a loan, it is Mr H 
who has lost money, not A. As it appears that A hasnt lost money, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to ask Metro to reimburse it.
But, in any case, Im satisfied based on the evidence available that the dispute between Mr 
H and L is civil in nature. To be clear, this means that I dont think that L operated as a scam 
and took As money without any intention of providing legitimate services to him. I say this 
because:
-Theres no dispute Mr H received a service from L. He attended the webinar and, as I 
understand, gained access to software provided by the firm.
-L (or businesses related to it) appear to be active, openly operating and not, as far as 
Im aware, subject to any criminal investigation. 
-The use of high-pressure sales techniques does not necessarily mean L were 
operating as a scam. 
-It wouldnt surprise me if an online business had no retail premises, its also not 
uncommon for businesses to be in debt and to not employ anyone directly. It also 
appears that L might be linked to a number of other companies  so it may not have 
been L which provided the services to Mr H. 
-Mr H seeks to rely on consumer legislation to obtain a refund  specifically arguing 
that he should be reimbursed because he cancelled within 14 days. But thats an 
issue he needs to take up with L directly. Metro arent responsible for Ls actions. 
And, a breach of consumer law (though its not clear thats the case here  given Mr 
H appears to have used some of the services before he cancelled) does not 
necessarily amount to fraud.
Overall, its for Mr H to demonstrate that L was acting fraudulently and the evidence does not 
support such a finding. That means Metro did not need to consider the payment under the 
CRM Code and were under no obligation to try and recover it from the receiving bank. 
As this is a civil dispute between Mr H and L and A hasnt suffered a loss, Metro havent 
acted unfairly by declining to refund A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman