DRN-1991526
The complaint
Mr B says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 8 short term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr B between September 
2014 and January 2017. Details of the 8 loans are as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 20/09/2014 25/10/2014 1 200 215.00
2 02/11/2014 06/01/2015 1 250 325.00
3 30/01/2015 27/08/2015 1 300 369.60
4 08/01/2016 27/01/2016 1 150 172.23
5 29/01/2016 26/02/2016 3 400 220.69
6 02/03/2016 27/05/2016 3 550 278.08
7 13/06/2016 26/08/2016 2 150 126.48
8 10/01/2017 27/03/2017 6 450 168.00
Mr B deferred payment of the first loan once and then the next two loans a further two times 
each. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender didnt agree and so Mr Bs complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Trading and the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there was nothing to indicate Mr 
Lender needed to do more when it approved loans 1-3. This was early on in the lending 
relationship between Mr B and Mr Lender. The repayments for each loan would have 
seemed affordable based on what Mr B had told it. So, I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to 
give these loans to him.
However, as our adjudicator explained, by loan four the pattern of Mr Bs borrowing showed 
that he was showing signs that he was struggling to repay. I have drawn this conclusion 
because: 
Mr B deferred repayment of loan 1 and then also did the same for loans 2 and 3 
on two occasions each. He repaid loan 2, a month later than he was due to. He 
also repaid loan 3 almost seven months after his scheduled repayment date. 
Mr B was not making any inroads into the amount he was borrowing. He asked 
for a little less than his first loan but the amounts he was asking to borrow were 
not being reduced, and in general he was indebted by a similar amount than the 
first loan he took out.
This shows me that at this point, he was most likely unable to repay his 
previous loan without taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap 
in his finances. I think when I consider all of these points together, it shows that there was a significant risk 
that Mr B would be unable to meet his repayments for loan 4 because he was showing signs 
that he was struggling to repay in a sustainable way. 
In addition to this, I dont think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks for loan 4. I say 
this because Mr B had been lending from it for around 15 months and had not reduced the 
amount he was borrowing. I think Mr Lender should have, at this point asked him for further 
information about his other short-term lending. 
Had Mr Lender done so, I think it would most likely have made a different lending decision 
about this loan and for all of the loans took out by Mr B going forward. I say this because Mr 
Lender would have seen with better checks that there were clear signs that Mr B was 
struggling to manage his money. At the same time as applying for loan 4, Mr B had taken out 
short-term high cost credit from five other lenders. So, it was most likely he was just 
borrowing to pay off other loans. 
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender should have given loan 4 and every loan agreed after 
this point to Mr B.
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached at loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr B had taken out four loans within 15 months and was asking for 
a fifth. I think it was more likely than not Mr B had to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loan(s) was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Mr Lender 
ought to have known that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect; service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think this pattern of lending should have alerted Mr Lender to the likelihood that Mr 
B was having problems managing his money. I think that Mr Lender shouldve been 
concerned that Mr B might be borrowing elsewhere to repay its loans, again 
increasing his indebtedness unsustainably.
I think that Mr B lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.So, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint from loans 4 onwards and because of this, Mr Lender 
should put things right. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 4 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mr Bs credit file
the number of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so all entries about loans 5 to 8 should be removed from Mr 
Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman