DRN-4049112
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice given to him by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited 
to switch two personal pensions into one new personal pension.
What happened
In 2021, Mr H and his wife met with Lighthouse to discuss their retirement planning. In June 
2021, Lighthouse recommended Mr H switch two personal pensions into one new personal 
pension and invest in the RLP Sustained Diversification Trust fund. Mr H accepted these 
recommendations. 
In 2022, Mr H saw his new pensions value had fallen so he says he asked a new 
independent financial adviser (IFA) about this and was told the RLP fund was an ethical 
fund which by its nature had limited diversification in its underlying assets. Following advice 
from his new IFA, Mr H switched his investment to another fund. 
Mr H complained to Lighthouse. He accepted that investment performance wasnt 
guaranteed but asked why it had recommended he invest in an ethical fund since hed not 
expressed any views on investment restrictions at the time of the advice. Mr H thought the 
RLP fund hadnt been suitable for him and Lighthouses recommendation to invest in it 
meant his financial losses were greater than theyd otherwise have been, since other, more 
diverse, funds would have been more suitable for him and hadnt performed so poorly. And 
Lighthouse hadnt told him the RLP funds diversification would be so limited.
In response, Lighthouse said it had searched the whole market for Mr H and recommended 
the RLP fund to him because it met his objectives. And that investments had generally been 
impacted by recent unforeseeable global events. Lighthouse also said it wasnt responsible 
for Mr Hs decision to crystalise his loss on the advice of his new IFA.
Unhappy, Mr H came to our Service. He said Lighthouse hadnt explained why it had 
recommended this fund over other suitable and more truly diversified funds. 
Our Investigator thought Lighthouses advice had been suitable, as it met Mr Hs objectives 
at that time and meant hed pay lower charges. And Lighthouse hadnt recommended the 
RLP fund because of any ethical features. 
Mr H disagreed. He said Lighthouse hadnt prioritised his objectives and didnt establish 
whether he had any views about ethical investments. Instead, it relied on him to express any 
view he mightve had about this and he hadnt been aware it could be a factor. And Mr H 
thought Lighthouse should have made him aware of the consequences, limitations and 
benefits of investing in the RLP fund. 
But our Investigator reiterated that ethical considerations hadnt been a determining factor, 
and said Lighthouse had provided Mr H with an RLP fund factsheet at the time of the advice. 
Mr H said he hadnt had a preference for ethical investing, and other funds wouldnt have 
had that kind of constraint and had performed significantly better. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When providing advice to Mr H, Lighthouse was required to make a recommendation that 
was suitable for him, based on his circumstances and objectives. In order to determine 
whether a suitable recommendation was made, Ive considered the documents from the time 
of the 2021 advice, including the fact find and suitability report.
Based on these, I think its fair to say Mr H wanted to maximise his pension in the lead up to 
retirement while staying in line with his ATR. I say that because Lighthouse recorded his 
objectives as:
1) To review your existing pension arrangements in respect of performance, charges and 
any guarantees.
2) To consider consolidation of your pension arrangements, where appropriate, for a 
coherent investment strategy.
3) To ensure your monies are invested in accordance with your calculated attitude to 
investment Risk
Lighthouse recorded that Mr H was age 54 and intended to retire at age 67, but that he didnt 
currently know what retirement income hed need as it was still many years away. In 
addition, Lighthouses suitability report recorded that it had assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk 
(ATR) as moderate. For clarity, I think this assessment was fair, given Mr Hs answers to 
the ATR profiling questions. And I note this part of the suitability report recorded that Mr H 
and Lighthouse had agreed the timeframe for investment was at least 10 years because 
investment returns are not guaranteed, particularly in the short-term, and there would be 
times when the value of his investment could drop quite sharply. 
Lighthouse also recorded details about Mr Hs current pension provision. It recorded that one 
of Mr Hs three pensions was a workplace pension he and his employer were contributing to, 
while the other two were personal pensions with no employer contribution. Lighthouse 
recorded that one of these personal pensions (P1) had a transfer value of £48,621.33, 
included a guaranteed bonus rate, allowed flexi-access drawdown, and was invested broadly 
in line with Mr Hs moderate ATR. And Lighthouse recorded that the other personal pension 
(P2) had a transfer value of £171,665.49, didnt allow flexi-access drawdown, and was 
higher risk than Mr Hs moderate ATR. 
Lighthouse considered the possibility of consolidating P1 and P2 into one of his existing 
pensions. But ultimately, it recommended he switch the funds held in P1 and P2 to a new 
personal pension with another provider. The reasons Lighthouse gave for this 
recommendation included:
The new personal pension had significantly lower charges than P1 and P2 and made 
things simpler for Mr H.
There were no penalties for switching P1 and P2 away from Mr Hs current provider and 
it allowed Mr H to crystallise his final bonus for P1. 
The new personal offered access to a range of internal and external funds so Mr H 
could tailor his investment choices over time in line with his ATR, and fund switches 
were free of charge.
The new provider had a discretionary profit share scheme Mr H would be eligible for. Lighthouse also recommended a fund choice for Mr H - it recommended he invest in the 
RLP fund. Lighthouses suitability report set out the reasons for this recommendation, and 
ethical considerations werent given as one of those reasons. Instead, the reasons given 
included: 
The RLP fund was in line with Mr Hs moderate ATR.
The RLP fund was a multi-asset fund so Mr H would benefit from the investment 
diversification offered by the different asset classes used within it.
The RLP fund was an actively managed fund so Mr H would benefit from the expertise 
of a fund manager overseeing the fund performance on a regular basis.
Mr H says Lighthouse didnt highlight to him that it was an ethical fund. I note Lighthouse 
provided Mr H with a factsheet that explained The fund invests in companies with products 
or services that benefit the core themes of environment, human welfare and sustainability. 
Companies leading their industries in ESG performance, as assessed by our analysts, are 
also included in the investable universe, thereby creating a portfolio of investments that 
make a positive contribution to society. And the fact sheet included information about the 
asset mix and the risks involved in investing in the RLP fund.  
So Im satisfied Lighthouse made reasonable efforts to give Mr H the facts about the RLP 
fund it had recommended. And if Mr H wasnt sure about any of the information Lighthouse 
provided to him at the time of the advice, or thought it didnt reflect his understanding of his 
discussions with Lighthouses adviser, then I wouldve expected Mr H to raise this with 
Lighthouse before accepting its recommendations. However, Ive seen nothing to make me 
think Mr H did raise any such concerns. And if Mr H didnt want to invest in the RLP fund, he 
couldve declined that recommendation. In any case, I dont think Lighthouse needed to 
specifically explain to Mr H that the RLP fund had ethical considerations, because this wasnt 
a determining factor for the recommendation. 
Mr H also says the RLP fund wasnt truly diversified. However I note the RLP fact sheet says 
the RLP fund fell within the Association of British Insurers Mixed Investment 20-60% 
Shares sector, and that it was invested across UK and international bonds, UK and 
international equities, property, cash and equivalents, gilts and other investments. So I think 
it was reasonable for Lighthouse to conclude that this was a diversified fund. 
I understand that Mr H says there were other more suitable and truly diversified funds that 
Lighthouse could and should have recommended he invest in. But Lighthouse didnt need to 
recommend the most suitable fund for Mr H  instead, it simply needed to recommend an 
investment that met with Mr Hs ATR and objectives. 
While Mr H hasnt complained about the switch or the costs involved in doing so, for 
completeness Ive considered this here. So Ive thought about whether or not the cost of 
switching was prohibitive in the circumstances.
Ive considered the impact of the Lighthouses £2,202.87 advice fee, which was funded from 
Mr Hs new personal pension. As I say, I think Mr H had a need for pension advice because 
he wanted to maximise his pension whilst staying in line with his current ATR. So, I think he 
wouldve always incurred an advice fee.
Ive also considered the ongoing charges. The suitability report recorded that P1 charged 
0.875% of the value of Mr Hs fund each year. And P2 charged a £5.08 monthly policy fee as 
well as 0.875% of the value of Mr Hs fund each year. The new personal pension charged 
Mr H 0.40% of the fund value per year, and the suitability report explained that this would 
reduce Mr Hs charges by £885.24 each year, after the impact of funding the initial advice 
fee was factored in. So Mr Hs new personal pension had significantly cheaper charges than 
P1 and P2.For these reasons, Im satisfied the cost of switching wasnt prohibitive here  instead, it was 
a reason to make the switch. And Im mindful that Mr Hs pension fund would have been 
invested in the new personal pension and the RLP fund for the medium to long term, given 
Mr H planned to retire in about 13 years time. So I think Mr H was likely to be able to recoup 
the cost of switching these two personal pensions over that time frame. And in any event, 
switching allowed Mr H to meet his objective of maximising his pension whilst keeping his 
investments in line with his moderate ATR. 
So overall, I dont think the recommendation Lighthouse gave Mr H to switch P1 and P2 into 
a new personal pension and invest in the RLP fund was unsuitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman