DRN-1347448
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between July 2018 and March 2019 Sunny provided Mr D with 9 instalment loans. 
Heres a table setting out details of the loans:
Loan Date Taken Date
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest Total
Repayment
1 21/07/2018 28/12/2018 6 £150.00 £43.36
2 08/08/2018 28/01/2019 6 £300.00 £136.74
3 21/09/2018 28/02/2019 6 £50.00 £153.41
4 22/11/2018 28/12/2018 6 £100.00 £186.74
5 17/01/2019 28/02/2019 6 £100.00 £50.00
6 21/01/2019 28/03/2019 6 £150.00 £100.00
7 28/01/2019 02/03/2019 6 £150.00 £149.56
8 04/03/2019 28/05/2019 6 £250.00 £129.81
9 23/03/2019 02/04/2019 6 £100.00 £163.14
*Highest Total Repayment represents the largest instalment due on that loan and any 
overlapping loans.
Mr D feels that Sunny shouldnt have given him multiple loans which were unaffordable for 
him, He told us this caused him a lot of stress and hes had to struggle to afford things on a 
day to day basis. 
When Mr D first complained to Sunny, it didn't uphold his complaint but made him a goodwill 
offer to write off the balance then outstanding on his account. Mr D didn't feel this went far enough and he referred his complaint to us to investigate.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ds complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1 - 3 shouldnt have been lent. But he felt that by loan 4 Sunny shouldve seen that 
Mr D was likely having money problems. And by loan 6 his overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested hed become persistently reliant on short-term loans. So our adjudicator said 
Sunny shouldnt have lent to him from loan 4 onwards and he set out what he thought Sunny 
should do to put things right for Mr D. 
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicator but responded to say it was now willing to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint from loan 8 onwards as a gesture of goodwill and amend Mr Ds credit file.
Sunny sent us details showing how it had worked out what to pay and we sent this 
information on to Mr D. But hes aware this offer stills falls short of what our adjudicator 
recommended and hes asked for an ombudsman review. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr D. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Ds credit file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information Mr D told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1, 2 and 3. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for Mr D, 
based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the 
combined monthly repayments. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the 
checks it did were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr D hasnt raised any objection to 
the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these first three loans, I dont think that I 
need to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 4. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Ds borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 4, Mr D already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny  and now he was asking for further borrowing. Even allowing 
for the fact that loan 3 had been for just £50, nevertheless loan 4 was for twice this amount  
and when he took it out his other loans still had some months to run. This suggests to me 
that Mr D was finding it hard to get on top of his money problems and his financial difficulties 
were likely ongoing.  
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Mr Ds borrowing record had the hallmarks of someone struggling with debt. And despite 
what hed told Sunny about his finances, it showed that Mr D was having serious problems 
managing his money. So Sunny shouldve seen that the indications were that loan 4  and 
any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr D. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr D to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further loans. 
I think Sunny should reasonably have seen that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this 
because:
Mr D wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably. Mr D had been paying Sunny 
loans every month for 6 months in a row since hed started borrowing from Sunny 
and this loan was due to keep him indebted to Sunny for a further 6 months 
 following on from his earlier overlapping loans, Sunny could see that when Mr D 
asked for loan 6, he was still making repayments on loans 2, 3 and 5 and hed only 
recently repaid loans 1 and 4.
 
Sunny didnt necessarily do anything wrong when it loaned again to Mr D before hed 
paid all his earlier loans. But Sunny shouldve seen that he wasnt making any real 
inroads into his debt 
 
although the loan amounts were variable this record of borrowing doesnt suggest 
that Mr D was asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan. Rather, 
I think this indicated that overall his financial circumstances hadnt improved and he 
had ongoing money problems and that he wasnt using the loans for their intended 
purpose.
 
I think that Mr D lost out when Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
 
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Ds ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 through to 9 and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4  9, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr D the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ds credit file for loans 4 and 5. The overall 
pattern of borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about loan 6 and the 
loans that followed is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 - 9 should be removed 
from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ds complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman