DRN-3074523
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme alongside other 
pension funds to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). It was invested with a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM) that I will refer to as S. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr A took early retirement in September 2015. He later found he had been a member of a 
DB scheme with a former employer. As the pension fund associated with the scheme was of 
a high value Mr A approached BRG in early 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. 
BRG completed a fact-find at Mr As home to gather information about his circumstances 
and objectives. BRG found that:
Mr A was 62 years of age retired and was married with two adult children.
He was financially dependent on his wife, who was also retired and in receipt of 
benefits from her pension. This provided an annual net income of £17,500. 
Mr and Mrs A owned their home and had no outstanding debts or liabilities other than 
normal monthly home expenses.
Mr A had a DB Scheme with a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £494,451.71 
and three other personal pensions with a transfer value combined of £53,015.63.
His objectives were to consolidate his pensions schemes to achieve more flexibility in 
the way funds could be used. He also felt the death benefits applying to a SIPP 
would be advantageous to his family in the future. He was considering taking his 
lump sum which could be used to carry out works on their home and help their 
children.
If possible, Mr A wanted to achieve an annual income of around £11,000 to prevent 
Mr and Mrs A from using their existing capital and allow them to live comfortably until 
their state pension qualification (age 66)
Mr A also answered some questions to assess his attitude to risk (ATR) which was assessed 
to be low medium.
On 4 April 2018, BRG advised Mr A to transfer all of his pension benefits into an Intelligent 
Money SIPP and invest the proceeds in the S income portfolio. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were:
To allow access to Tax- Free Cash (TFC) any time after age 55.
To give flexibility in the future. 
To allow Mr A to take a higher or lower level of income as he needed. 
To allow Mr A to leave his money to whomever he chose upon his death.
In August 2019 Mr A was advised that S had been placed into special administration and in 
May 2020 he was advised that his pension fund value stood at approximately £115,000. As 
Mr A felt he had been wrongly advised to transfer his pension provisions he complained to 
BRG.
BRG didnt uphold Mr As complaint it said it had carried out the correct due diligence on S 
and it could not be held responsible for being misled.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
BRG to pay compensation. The Investigator said Mr A was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value transferring his pension out of the DB scheme, and the 
potential benefits of the transfer did not outweigh the benefits that were safeguarded under 
the DB scheme.
BRG disagreed. Overall, it said that the advice it gave Mr A about transferring his pension 
provisions were suited to his ATR and it could not be held responsible for the actions of S.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
BRG stated that the critical yield required to match Mr As benefits at age 65 was 24.05% if 
he took a full pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.7% per year for 2 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr As 
low medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Based on the critical yield alone 
I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was suitable for Mr A.BRG says that in any event, Mr A had no intention of buying an annuity at 65 so the critical 
yield was not a significant factor in determining the advice. Instead, it says it analysed the 
growth the fund required in order to match Mr As DB pension using the average life 
expectancy for someone in his demographic, plus five years. This showed that if growth of 
5% gross per year was achieved it would match Mr As DB income until age 91. Even if the 
growth rate was as low as 2% the fund would have exceeded Mr As need of £11,000 per 
annum.
Firstly I disagree that critical yields are irrelevant. They provide a good indication of the value 
of benefits a consumer is giving up by transferring and the regulator deems it an important 
part of the decision-making process.
BRGs illustrations showed that with returns of 2% per year, funds would run out at age 86. 
With returns of 5% benefits would last until age 91. However, there was a risk Mr A could 
live longer and/or returns of lower than 5% would be achieved. Of course Mr A could have 
taken lower benefits and extended the time his benefits would last, however I cant see the 
benefits of doing this. And I also see no reason why Mr A needed to take these risks with his 
pension. I also note that when BRG mentions the DB benefits being matched they dont 
take the spouses pension into consideration.
Considering the DB scheme represented the majority of Mr As pension provisions I cant 
see that he had the required capacity for loss to give up the guarantees in his DB scheme 
and take the risks of being worse off in retirement.
However, I did consider whether there were any other objectives which made a transfer 
suitable despite very likely providing overall lower retirement benefits.
Flexibility and income needs
I havent seen persuasive evidence that Mr A had a strong need for flexibility in retirement. 
He also had no significant investment experience and I dont think he had a need to control 
his investments  Mr A had already retired and had the option to take TFC from his DB 
scheme, however  I appreciate this would have reduced his monthly pension substantially to 
below what Mr A felt he would need.
However, Mr A had other pensions with a total value of over £50,000 which he could have 
used flexibly to take additional income until the scheme retirement age and joint savings of 
around £27,000. So, I think Mr A would have had other options to access cash that were 
more suitable than risking his main pension provision by transferring his DB pension to a 
SIPP.  
Mr A explained that he wanted to use the TFC to carry out work on his home and help assist 
family members. But Im not persuaded Mr A had a strong enough need to access TFC from 
his DB scheme at the time of the review to risk the full guaranteed pension he was able to 
claim just three years later.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr A might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr A about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think BRG explored to what extent Mr A was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for potentially higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr A 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr A predeceased her. I dont think BRG made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr A. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the 
cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left, or the fund could have 
been completely depleted, particularly if Mr A lived a long life. In any event, BRG should not 
have encouraged Mr A to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr A was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this.  I also think that the transfer of Mr As other pensions would not 
have taken place had it not been for the incorrect advice given to Mr A to transfer funds from 
his DB scheme to the SIPP. 
I say this because Mr A contacted BRG having found details of the DB scheme and was 
primarily seeking advice on how to use the funds to achieve his pension goals. The DB 
scheme made up the majority of Mr As pension provision and had almost 10 times the value 
of his other pensions combined. I think its unlikely he would have moved his smaller pension 
provisions into the SIPP had he been correctly advised not to transfer the DB scheme fund 
too. 
So, I think BRG shouldve advised Mr A to remain in their DB scheme and think this would 
have resulted in Mr A not moving any of his pension provisions to the SIPP.
Other parties
BRG considered the recommendation that Mr A should use a DFM to manage his pension 
funds. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt suitable for Mr A, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr A should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if 
suitable advice had been given.
I understand that BRG is concerned about the actions of the DFM and Ive considered that 
the DFM was also a regulated party with their own regulatory obligations and possibly have 
contributed to Mr As losses. However, I can only consider the complaint in front of me which 
is against BRG and I think its fair in the circumstances that they compensate him for his 
losses in full. I say this because, as explained above, without BRGs unsuitable advice Mr A 
likely would have remained in his DB scheme and his other pensions wouldnt have ended 
up in a SIPP or DFM. Consequently, he wouldnt have experienced the losses he did.
It follows in my view that the losses Mr A suffered in his SIPP could have been fully avoided
if BRG had given suitable advice and so I consider it fair and reasonable that they should
compensate him for any losses he suffered by transferring out of his secure DB scheme.
Putting things rightMy aim in awarding redress is to put Mr A as far as possible in the position hed be in now
if BRG had given him suitable advice. I think Mr A would have retained his existing pension 
arrangements.
What should BRG do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, BRG must determine the combined fair value of his transferred 
pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value is greater 
than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. My aim
is to return Mr A to the position he would have been in but for the actions of BRG. This is
complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the open
market), as their value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, BRG should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take ownership 
of the investments. If BRG is unable to buy the investments, it should give them a nil value 
for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything BRG has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be 
applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, BRG may ask Mr A to provide an undertaking to account to it for the
net amount of any payment he may receive from the illiquid investments. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives.
BRG will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If BRG asks Mr A to provide 
an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of 
that undertaking.
fair value  step one
If Mr A had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme. 
BRG must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr A lost as a result of transferring 
out of his DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)to obtain Mr As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
fair value - step twoBRG will also need to determine the notional value of Mr As other pensions, had they not 
been invested in the DFM. I dont know how exactly Mr A would have invested, so I used a 
reasonable benchmark .
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the investment should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if BRG totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be
paid into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date
BRG receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG 
to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, BRG should pay Mr A £400 for the trouble and upset caused as a result of
the disruption to his retirement planning.
Determination and money award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Better Retirement Group Ltd 
should pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000 plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mr A the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.If Mr A accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Better Retirement Group 
Ltd. My recommendation is not binding on Better Retirement Group Ltd. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr a can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr a may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision 
I uphold the complaint and direct Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay compensation as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman