DRN-2583343
Complaint
Mr C has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) irresponsibly provided him with 
an unaffordable guarantor loan.  
  
Background
TFS Loans provided Mr C with a guarantor loan in September 2014. The loan was for 
£6,000.00, secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, had an APR of 45.0% 
and due to be repaid in 60 instalments of £223.50. The total amount to be repaid was 
£13,410.00, which included interest of £7,410.00. This was in fact Mr Cs second loan with 
TFS Loans. But as he hasnt complained about his first loan, all reference to loan from this 
point onwards is with regard to the loan for £6,000.00 taken in September 2014.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint. He told TFS Loans that the checks it 
carried out before providing Mr C with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and 
such checks would have shown Mr C wasnt in a position to sustainably make the 
repayments. So he thought that TFS Loans shouldnt have provided Mr C with this loan and 
upheld the complaint. 
TFS Loans disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that relevant to my determination of Mr Cs complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr C would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations at the time TFS Loans lent to Mr C required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. TFS Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment 
in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In 
practice this meant that TFS Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for TFS Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had 
to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr C. The existence of a guarantee and the 
potential for TFS Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr C, for the loan payments 
doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were TFS Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
TFS Loans has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr C. 
During this assessment, Mr C confirmed that he received an average of £2,700.00 a month. 
But having reviewed Mr Cs payslips TFS Loans underwriter confirmed that Mr Cs average 
monthly salary was closer to £1,900.00. TFS Loans also carried out credit check on Mr C. The credit check showed that Mr C had a couple of CCJs, which were still outstanding 
despite having been obtained a number of years previously, and that hed defaulted on three 
short-term loan accounts in the calendar year preceding the application. However, Mr C 
confirmed that these previous issues were due to having moved to being paid monthly from 
being paid on a weekly basis and that hed never missed any payments on his TFS Loans 
loan.
Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check TFS Loans carried out and the content of its discussions with Mr C 
indicated that Mr C had significant difficulties with credit in the past. And this wasnt his first 
loan with TFS Loans either. 
In these circumstances, I think that TFS Loans ought to have taken steps to verify Mr Cs 
monthly expenditure, given that it already concluded the monthly income declaration Mr C 
provided wasnt supported by the evidence it obtained. In my view, the information on Mr Cs 
credit file suggested he may have been in financial difficulty. And bearing in mind just how 
long this history of poorly managed credit had been, at least 4 years in the case of the 
outstanding CCJs, I dont think that Mr Cs explanation of this being due to a change in the 
way he was paid was plausible. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
I accept that TFS Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because it had 
received payments on Mr Cs existing loan and the existence of Mr Cs guarantor might have 
given it more confidence that the payments would be made. But I dont think that these 
factors meant that Mr C would be able to sustainably make the payments given what the 
credit file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a customers finances are showing signs of 
strain and distress, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer period of time and 
there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make payments, I think 
its far more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more detailed and 
contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what TFS Loans had 
seen or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for the 
guarantor, TFS Loans needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr Cs financial position in 
order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he 
was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Mr C about the details of his income and expenditure, I think that TFS 
Loans needed to verify what Mr C said about his expenditure, like it did for his income. It could have done this by asking for information such as bank statements or copies of bills. 
And when it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr C 
did have enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 
As theres no evidence that TFS Loans did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Mr C to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations 
made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing Mr C with this loan.
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So Id usually go to decide whether it is more 
likely than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Mr C wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
But I dont think that it is necessary for me to do that here because as well as assessing the 
circumstances behind each individual application, I also think it is fair and reasonable to look 
at the pattern of Mr Cs borrowing in the context of what TFS Loans knew about his overall 
position. And I think that when it provided this loan, TFS Loans ought fairly and reasonably 
to have realised that Mr Cs financial position was such that further loans were simply 
unsustainable for him.
I say this because TFS Loans was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably 
make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in any event, 
had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from the 
guarantor. 
Mr Cs outstanding CCJs and defaulted accounts demonstrated that hed had difficulty 
meeting his existing commitments for an extended period of time. The CCJs remained 
outstanding despite having been obtained more than four years prior to this application. And 
as well as the three defaulted short-term loans, the credit search TFS Loans carried out 
showed that Mr C had been using this credit for an extended period. 
Coupled with this the loan purpose recorded for this loan suggested that Mr C would be 
using the proceeds from this loan to settle debts with TFS Loans and other lenders. So I 
think that TFS Loans ought to have realised that Mr C had no recent track record of 
sustainably repaying debt and there was a strong possibility Mr C would either borrow further 
to repay this loan, or worse still default on it in the way hed done on three separate loans in 
the months leading up to this application. And, in these circumstances, I dont see how TFS 
Loans didnt see that it would be increasing Mr Cs indebtedness in a way that was likely to 
be unsustainable otherwise harmful. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that TFS Loans failed to take account of Mr Cs 
circumstances suggesting that providing this loan would increase his indebtedness in a way 
that was always likely to be unsustainable or otherwise harmful for him. And as this is the 
case I think that it unfairly provided him with this loan.
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude TFS Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some 
other way.  
So I find that TFS Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way.  Did Mr C lose out as a result of TFS Loans unfairly and unreasonably providing him with his 
guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Cs indebtedness. This loan 
wasnt cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and he ended up paying 
interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been given in the first place. 
So I find that Mr C lost out because TFS Loans unfairly provided him with this loan.
  
Fair compensation  what TFS Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans should do to put things right in this case. Having 
done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Cs 
complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
refunding all the interest, fees and charges Mr C paid as a result of the guarantor 
loan he was provided with in September 2014;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date 
they were paid by Mr C to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
pay compensation in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman