DRN-2883145
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about a mortgage he has with Santander UK Plc. He is unhappy about 
the early repayment charge (ERC) he had to pay on his mortgage. Mr G complained about 
the term on the interest rate product he had taken being longer than it should have been. He 
asked that the ERC be waived or reduced.  
What happened
In 2018 Mr G had an existing Santander mortgage. He applied for additional borrowing and 
requested a fixed interest rate product be linked to both the original and new borrowing. 
The first mortgage offer was issued at the end of July 2018. However, it didnt detail the fixed 
interest rate product Mr G had applied for and he complained to Santander about that. A 
further offer was issued on 10 September 2018, but that one was wrong too. The correct 
mortgage offer was issued on 2 October 2018. It was clearly detailed the fixed rate product 
would be linked to the mortgage until 2 January 2021. It was also detailed that an ERC 
applied if the mortgage was repaid before 2 January 2021 and examples of how much it 
could be were given.
At the end of November 2019 Mr G telephoned Santander to enquire about repaying his 
mortgage and asked for a redemption statement to be sent to him. During the conversation 
he was told about the costs associated with repaying the mortgage, including that an ERC 
was payable at that time. 
Mr G made a complaint about the term of the interest rate product and asked that the ERC 
was waived. Santander responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the 
documentation issued in 2018 made it clear the interest rate product ended on 
2 January 2021 and that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was repaid before that. 
In light of this, Santander said it wouldnt waive the ERC.
In February 2020 a further redemption statement was requested. It was faxed to Mr Gs 
solicitor on 18 February 2020. The mortgage was repaid in March 2020. 
As Mr G was unhappy with the complaint response from Santander, he asked this service to 
consider the complaint. During our investigation into the complaint, Mr G mentioned there 
had been delays in his further advance application in 2018 and the fixed interest rate product 
had only been applied once the further advance had been granted. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He confirmed that Mr G had received compensation from Santander in 2018 for 
delays affecting his further advance application. He was satisfied the date the fixed rate 
would expire was clearly detailed in the mortgage offer, as were some estimates of how 
much the ERC would be at various points. The investigator was satisfied the ERC had been 
applied in line with the agreement between Mr G and Santander, so it was not reasonable to 
ask Santander to waive or reduce the ERC.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said he had actually made three 
complaints to Santander in 2018 about delays and gave details about the compensation 
awards hed received.  He provided details of the amount of the ERC to evidence the full 
impact and value of these additional months of ERC over the 2 year fixed rate.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his conclusions and so Mr G asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
Following review of the complaint, I requested more information from Santander regarding 
the earlier complaint response and the delays that had occurred to see if they would have 
made a difference to the situation when Mr G repaid his mortgage.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 March 2021, setting out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
For clarity, I wont be commenting on the complaints Mr G made in 2018 about the delays 
relating to his further advance application. However, I will consider whether those delays had 
an effect on the ERC Mr G paid in 2020.
Mr G is unhappy he had to pay an ERC when he paid his mortgage off. The amount of the 
ERC was clearly detailed in the documentation he received in 2018 and, for clarity, it was a 
flat 3% charge. So no matter when within the term of the product Mr G paid the mortgage off, 
he would pay the same percentage of the redemption amount. 
Mr G is concerned that the product was attached to his mortgage for more than the two 
years he was told it would be. When the interest rate product was discussed before he 
applied for it, it may well have been referred to as a two-year rate. This is fairly normal, but 
when a mortgage offer is produced, for clarity a lender will usually give a specific date the 
rate will apply until. As there can be a period of time between offer and completion, the date 
will usually give some time for these processes and still allow a consumer to benefit from the 
rate for at least two years. 
In Mr Gs case the offer detailed that the product would end on 2 January 2021. The delays 
in the processing of Mr Gs further advance may well have meant this date was later than it 
otherwise would have been. However, even if there hadnt been any delays and the first offer 
sent out by Santander in July 2018 had been correct, Mr G would still have been subject to 
an ERC into the second half of 2020. Mr G repaid his mortgage in March 2020, so he would 
always have had to pay an ERC equal to 3% of the amount repaid.
The interest rate product was applied across Mr Gs existing mortgage and the further 
advance. The existing mortgage functioned as normal during the period of the delays in his 
further advance application. As it was arranged on a repayment basis, capital would have 
continued to be paid off the balance as normal. So I am not persuaded the balance of that 
account would have been higher in March 2020 than it would have been had there been no 
delays with the interest rate product being attached to it. 
However, the 2018 further advance was also arranged on a repayment basis. This means 
that, arguably, if it should have been advanced a couple of months earlier than it was, but for 
the mistakes, the balance in March 2020 would have been slightly lower than it was. As the 
ERC was calculated based on a percentage of the outstanding balance, the ERC is also 
likely to have been marginally higher than it otherwise would have been. 
However, in order to achieve that marginally lower ERC, Mr G would have had to have paid 
out more because he would have started paying the further advance earlier. The monthly payment toward the further advance was £271, of which almost £60 per month was interest. 
As such, if the further advance had been advanced two month earlier, the mortgage balance 
would have been approximately £420 lower. This would have resulted in the ERC being in 
the region of £12 lower than it was. However, Mr G would have paid almost an additional 
£120 in interest in order to be in that position. As such, the delay in the further advance 
processing didnt cause Mr G to suffer a financial loss, overall, when he repaid his mortgage 
and had to pay the ERC.
Santander confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
Mr G didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied he received it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new evidence or comments, I see no reason to alter my 
conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
20 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman