DRN-3613838
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O went abroad on 27 February 2020 and was due to fly home on 16 March 2020. 
However, Mr O has said his flight home was cancelled by the airline. He was then booked on 
another flight with the same airline, almost a week later. But Mr O said this flight was 
cancelled by the airline too. 
Mr O explained the above flights were cancelled as a result of the global coronavirus 
pandemic. And there were no additional flights he could take home at the time. So, Mr O 
was stuck abroad. Mr O remained abroad until September 2020. He sourced 
accommodation for his extended stay. And later contacted AXA, to make a claim under his 
travel insurance policy, for his additional costs. Mr O didnt claim for the full period he 
remained abroad. But rather for his extended stay between 23 May 2020 and 30 May 2020.
AXA considered Mr Os claim and declined it. It told Mr O it had concerns about his claim, 
and the validity of it. AXA said it believed Mr O had misrepresented his claim in breach of his 
policy terms, and it wouldnt be settling the claim. 
It noted its concerns as follows:
Mr O didnt register his claim until 28 April 2020, despite his flights being cancelled in 
March 2020.
There were 12 repatriation flights from Mr Os destination, and it didnt have any 
evidence Mr O wasnt offered a space on them.
Mr O had refused a return flight via another country that AXA had offered him in June 
2020.
It has concerns about the additional accommodation Mr O said he had booked. It had 
concerns about how this was booked, paid for, and the location of it.
Mr O didnt feel this was fair, so he raised a complaint about the matter. AXA maintained 
its position that the claim would not be paid. And so, he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They said AXA 
had acted fairly in taking steps to investigate the loss. But they didnt think AXA had provided 
sufficient evidence to suggest that Mr O had misrepresented his claim, and therefore 
breached the fraud condition of his policy.
With this in mind, our investigator recommended that AXA reconsider Mr Os claim, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and remove any fraud markers from 
internal or external databases. Our investigator also said AXA should pay Mr O £150 for the 
trouble and upset the unreasonable decline of the claim had caused, in addition to the £150 
they felt AXA has reasonably offered for some delays in the claim.
Mr O agreed with these findings. AXA didnt respond. Because AXA didnt respond, this 
complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my provisional decision is that I intend on upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained my reasoning for this below.
When considering complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably 
decline it. So, Ive thought about whether AXA acted fairly in declining Mr Os claim. And 
based on what Ive seen, I dont think it did.
Ive reviewed Mr Os policy booklet  to see what cover his policy provided. And I can see 
that Mr Os policy does explain it provides cover for travel disruption. 
The travel disruption section of the policy says AXA will pay up to £5,000 for reasonable 
additional travel and accommodation expenses (of a similar cost to pre-booked travel or 
accommodation) that Mr O couldnt claim back from another source. This being if he had to 
stay longer outside of his home area, because public transport he was booked on to travel 
home was cancelled or delayed for at least 12 hours. 
Mr Os flights were cancelled by more than 12 hours. In an internal email dated 19 June 
2020, I can see AXA saying Mr O had provided evidence of the initial flights home on 16 
March 2020 being cancelled. And Mr O has provided a letter from the airline provider 
confirming that the flights scheduled for 22 March 200 were cancelled too. So, Im satisfied 
there is cover under the policy for Mr Os extended stay  where he met the remaining policy 
terms. 
As there is cover under the policy for this instance, AXA needed to accept the claim. Unless 
there was an exclusion in the policy that applied or a breach of a condition within the policy.   
AXA has said there was a condition in the policy that Mr O breached. In its letter of 17 
August 2020 it referenced the fraud condition in Mr Os policy. 
Ive reviewed the fraud condition. This says Mr O should act honestly. And references 
several situations AXA would consider fraudulent  such as making a false or exaggerated 
claim, knowingly providing false or forged documentation, or providing information that is not 
complete or true to the best of Mr Os knowledge. And it explains that AXA would not pay 
fraudulent claims.
It isnt for this service to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Rather, 
if AXA is seeking to rely on the fraud condition in the policy, AXA need to show it came to a 
reasonable conclusion, based on evidence, that its more likely than not, the fraud condition 
was breached. 
So, when looking at this complaint, Ive needed to decide whether AXA acted reasonably in 
noting its evidence was sufficient to show this was the case.
 Having considered the information provided to me, I dont think AXA acted reasonably in 
saying the fraud condition in the policy was breached. I say this because I dont think its 
provided sufficient evidence to show its more likely than not that Mr O was dishonest and 
attempting to gain a benefit he wasnt entitled to under the policy.
Flights home
AXA has raised a number of concerns about Mr Os flights home. In terms of the initial flight 
on 16 March 2020, as above, AXA said, in its internal email dated 19 June 2020, that it had 
seen proof from Mr O that this flight was cancelled by the airline. And, Mr O has provided a 
letter from the airline in reference to the cancelled flight on 22 March 2020 too. Given this, 
Im satisfied Mr O provided information to show why he didnt board his return flights home.
Mr O has also provided a copy of an email hes explained was sent to him, on 30 March 
2020. He has explained he received this from the government, confirming he had registered 
for a repatriation flight home. Ive seen this email, and this confirms it is being monitored for 
those from the UK, wanting to return home. The email says there are no return flights to the 
UK, until 23 April 2020. Ive also seen an email from Mr O, dated 24 May 2020, in which Mr 
O is chasing the government, noting he hadnt received any response or updates, and hed 
heard there were now return flights  and hed like to get on one. 
AXA has said there were 12 repatriation flights from where Mr O was, between April 2020 
and June 2020. And said it has no evidence Mr O wasnt offered a seat on one of these 
flights. Suggesting that Mr O could have been offered a seat and refused it. Thinking about 
this, Im equally aware AXA has no evidence that Mr O was offered a seat, and he refused it. 
So, whilst I understand why AXA wanted to check if Mr O had been offered and able to 
return home before he did, I dont it was reasonable for AXA to come to a conclusion, based 
on this evidence, that it was more likely than not that Mr O had acted incorrectly, dishonestly, 
or against his policy terms here.
AXA has also raised that Mr O was offered to return home  via another country in June 
2020. Mr O has explained he refused this because he was concerned about being stuck in 
that country. Mr O said when offered the flight, he checked the advice for travelling to that 
country, and found there were no flights being allowed there. And he said that he was told by 
AXA he would need to pay for this flight. But hed heard there were more repatriation flights 
directly from where he was  around 10 days later. 
Given the above, Im aware Mr O has explained why he didnt accept this flight. Mr O has 
highlighted that he is only claiming costs for his extended stay, between March 2020 and 
May 2020. Based on this, I dont think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude, based on the 
information it had, that Mr O was most likely being misleading, or attempting to gain a benefit 
not entitled to. He wasnt trying to claim for funds at the point he refused this flight home. 
Accommodation booked and payment of this 
AXA has raised a number of concerns about the accommodation Mr O has said he stayed 
in. It was provided with invoices for Mr Os stay  between March 2020 and May 2020. But it 
said the travel agent those invoices were for, said it hadnt facilitated the booking of this, 
when it contacted them initially. AXA also sent an agent to visit the apartment complex, and 
spoke a security guard, who noted there were no short-term lets in the building. 
But I can see that the travel agent later let AXA know they had arranged the apartment 
rental. And they confirmed the invoices Mr O had provided were genuine. The travel agent 
explained why they didnt confirm this at first  this being because they were concerned about giving out Mr Os personal information, without his authorisation. Ive also seen an 
email from the travel agent, that was provided to AXA, which expanded on this. This said:
we provided our default response stating that we have no knowledge of you. We however 
told him to provide more information to enable us to assist him. With most cases of 
fraudsters phishing for information, our default response is sufficient to stop them from 
coming back. We did not consider this an issue and as a result, we did NOT report this 
incidence to the Anti-Kidnapping (AKS) division of the Nigerian Police Force. And there was 
no requirement for us to alert you about this issue
On the 21st of July, (agent) called back requesting for the same information, this time 
around, he sent us copies of the invoices that was issued to you. We ascertained that the 
invoices were genuine and proceeded to contact you on your mobile number for verification. 
Unfortunately, we were unable to reach you. Due to the fact that his request was related to 
the invoice that he had presented and to avoid further delays, we made the decision to 
provide a response. We made the following confirmations:
1.We confirmed that you were indeed a client staying at 1 of our properties
2.We confirmed that you had paid some invoices
3.We confirmed that there were some outstanding invoices yet to be paid.
The travel agent confirmed to AXA that Mr O had paid the invoice for March and May 2020 
had been paid  but April and June 2020 were outstanding at that point. Having looked at 
the information Ive seen, I find the travel agents clarification more persuasive than the 
security guard evidence, given his particular dealings with Mr O, and the fact the security 
guards occupation is for a large complex of apartments that are likely to have various, 
private, arrangements.
Mr O has explained to AXA that he paid for some of the accommodation in cash  and for 
the May 2020 invoice via bank transfer. He has provided a bank statement noting a bank 
transfer, as well as showing cash being transferred to someone abroad. Mr O said he had 
sent these funds abroad before travelling, and then collected the cash when he got abroad. 
And he used this to pay for accommodation. 
Given the above, Im aware the travel agent, has confirmed the booking, and said invoices 
were genuine. And, I think its provided a reasonable explanation as to why it didnt disclose 
this information at first. Mr O has also provided explanations, backed up by evidence, of how 
he paid the accommodation bill. So, whilst it was reasonable for AXA to question the 
information provided, I dont think it provided sufficient evidence to show its more likely than 
not that Mr O breached the fraud condition in the policy. 
Date the claim was registered 
AXA has said that Mr O didnt raise his claim until 28 April 2020, over a month since his flight 
home was cancelled, and his stay abroad was extended. It hasnt explained why it considers 
this to be a breach of the fraud condition, or any other condition within the policy. And it 
hasnt provided any evidence in respect of this. So, Im satisfied this point doesnt alter the 
outcome of the complaint. 
Conclusions
Given the above, and looking at the situation overall, I appreciate why AXA had questions it 
felt it was necessary to ask Mr O. AXA had the right to ask reasonable questions to validate 
a claim made with it. But I dont think it acted fairly in saying the fraud condition was breached. It hasnt shown it 
was more likely than not that Mr O has dishonestly claimed for something he was not 
otherwise entitled to  for example by providing false or untrue information or providing false 
or forged invoices.
With that in mind, I dont think AXA acted fairly in declining Mr Os claim for this reason. So, I 
consider that AXA should reconsider the claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. And, if it has placed internal or external fraud markers on any 
databases, it should remove these.
Our investigator recommended that AXA pay Mr O £150 compensation, for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter caused Mr O. And I agree this is fair. I can appreciate how 
distressing it would have been for Mr O to be unfairly told he had acted fraudulently. And Im 
satisfied £150 fairly recognises this upset.
Its important to highlight Mr O has been offered a separate £150 for some concerns he 
raised about delays in contacting him, which AXA accepted. I do consider this to be fair, to 
recognise the inconvenience this caused Mr O. But I must note that the £150 Im requiring 
AXA to pay Mr O is separate and additional to that.
Given the above my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint about AXA 
Insurance UK Plc. Im intending on requiring AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reconsider Mr Os claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of Mr Os 
policy
Remove any fraud markers from internal or external databases
Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. As 
well as the £150 compensation it had already offered Mr O, if it hasnt paid this 
already.
Mr O responded to the provisional decision and agreed. AXA didnt respond to the 
provisional decision specifically. But it did forward an email previously sent to our 
investigator, on 6 July 2022, with points it felt should be considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding the complaint. Neither party has provided me with 
evidence or comments that changes the outcome detailed in my provisional decision. And 
so, the outcome remains the same, for the same reasons. 
As above, AXA drew attention to an email it sent to this service previously  with its thoughts 
on the complaint. Most of the points raised were already within the information given to this 
service and were commented on within my provisional decision. So, I wont detail these, or 
my reasoning in relation to them, again.
AXA did however raise that it felt Mr O and the travel agent who said he had booked 
accommodation through it had a friendship, which was why the travel agents account was 
altered to satisfy Mr Os need to claim. I havent seen any firm evidence this was the case. 
And so, this doesnt change the outcome of this complaint. 
It also said that if Mr O had contacted to claim earlier than he did, it may have been able to 
arrange a flight home for him. Im aware the airports in the country were shut, until 23 April 2020. So, I think a flight home before then would have been unlikely. Mr O raised his claim 
five days after this point, and he has provided evidence he had contacted the government for 
a flight home. So, whilst I appreciate AXAs point here  I dont think its provided sufficient 
evidence that it would have been able to repatriate Mr O if he had contacted it earlier. And 
so, I dont think its provided sufficient evidence that Mr O prejudiced its position.
My final decision
Given the above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint about AXA Insurance UK 
Plc. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reconsider Mr Os claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of Mr Os 
policy
Remove any fraud markers from internal or external databases
Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. As 
well as the £150 compensation it had already offered Mr O, if it hasnt paid this 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman