DRN-3804539
The complaint
Mr O complains about the service hes received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. He unhappy 
with how they handled his requests for information and the behaviour of their staff. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
In 2017 Mr O raised a Subject Access Request (SAR) with Barclays and requested 
copies of all forms of communication theyd had with him from 2006 up until that 
point.
Barclays replied and asked him to specify which calls he wanted as they deemed the 
request for all calls to be excessive. They also explained they could only search for 
calls for the previous 12 months. However, they didnt receive a response.
Mr O made a further SAR in April 2019 and Barclays sent a response in May 2019. 
Mr O then complained about his SAR not being actioned. Barclays investigated his 
concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr O spoke again with Barclays in December 2019 about a response to another 
complaint he made. During this call he complained about what hed been given in 
response to his SAR. He was unhappy there were none of the call recordings hed 
wanted, and hed also received less correspondence than expected. 
Barclays replied to confirm the call recordings had been requested but as the request 
was non-specific it may take some time to process. 
However, the calls were never sent to Mr O, and he had to make another SAR in July 
2020. He also complained about several issues including the service hed received in 
branch, discrimination, correspondence with staff and his SAR.
Barclays investigated his concerns and said that theyd already responded about 
some of the issues hed raised, and he could refer those issues to this service. They 
didnt uphold any the new concerns that had been made except for how theyd dealt 
with his SAR. They confirmed thered been an error in processing the SAR and 
offered £350 for the inconvenience and an additional £150 for the delay in 
responding to the complaint. The requested calls were subsequently sent to Mr O in 
October 2020.
Barclays issued a second final response in January 2021 where they acknowledged 
that they hadnt correctly handled the December 2019 request correctly. They offered 
Mr O additional compensation of £200 and apologised. 
Mr O didnt accept their findings and referred his complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think Barclays needed to take 
any further action as she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that the service hed 
received had been unreasonable. And she thought the compensation offered for the 
mistakes Barclays made relating to the SAR was fair and reasonable. 
Mr O didnt accept her findings. As theres been no agreement the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I will explain why but Id firstly 
like to clarify that this decision solely concerns Mr Os complaint relating to the issues hes 
experienced with his SAR and the conduct of their staff. He has made other complaints 
against Barclays which will be addressed separately.  
Issues with the SAR
Id firstly like to say I appreciate the frustrations Mr O has experienced when trying to get the 
information hed requested from Barclays. Barclays have accepted that theyve made errors 
when processing his SAR, so my role is to determine if the compensation theyve offered is 
fair and reasonable. 
From what Ive seen Barclays responded to Mr Os initial SAR in 2017 but didnt receive a 
response to the questions theyd asked. Mr O had asked for copies of all conversations - 
telephone and face to face - that he had with Barclays from 2006 up to that time. Barclays 
deemed the request to be excessive and asked him to provide more information to narrow 
down the search e.g. dates and the number called from. I dont think they acted unfairly by 
requesting this information and I dont think they needed to do anything further until Mr O got 
back to them.
However, when Mr O raised the request again, its clear that errors were made. He had to 
make multiple requests, involve the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and had a 
lengthy delay before he received the information hed asked for. Barclays have offered him 
£700 in compensation - £550 for the issues with his SAR and £150 for delays in investigating 
and responding to his complaint. I think that Mr O has been caused a considerable level of 
inconvenience over a long period of time. Having considered the compensation Barclays 
have offered, I think it is fair and reasonable and falls within the range of what I would 
expect. Therefore, I wont be asking them to do any more about this point. 
Behaviour of staff
Mr O has raised a number of concerns about how he was treated by Barclays staff. Hes 
said that hes been treated rudely, ignored, insulted, discriminated against and bullied. I can 
see that Mr O feels very strongly about how hes been treated, and Id like to assure him that 
Ive carefully considered what hes said and reviewed all the available evidence before 
making my decision.  
Ive firstly considered how Mr O was treated by the member of staff in the branch. There isnt 
much contemporaneous evidence from the time, only a note of the branch managers 
recollections. It was noted that the member of staff tried to help Mr O but was unable to, as 
his issues concerned investments and would need to be dealt with by a specialist team. It 
was also noted that she had spent a lot of time contacting the complaints team and the investment team in order to try and help Mr O before advising him that there was nothing 
more she could do to help. Taking everything into account, I dont think there is enough 
evidence for me to fairly say that Mr O was treated badly by the member of staff.
Ive then considered how Mr O was treated by the member of staff who handled his 
complaint and SAR. Unfortunately, most of the call recordings are unavailable, so Ive had to 
try and base my assessment using the limited available evidence. Having done so, I can see 
from the call notes and correspondence that Mr O had raised a number of issues, but the 
member of staff only addressed one of the complaint points in his final response letter (FRL). 
Ive been able to listen to one of the calls where Mr O wanted to discuss his complaint as he 
believed his issues hadnt been addressed, but the member of staff wasnt willing to discuss 
it any further and explained that Mr O could refer his complaint to this service.
I appreciate this would have caused Mr O frustration, and although I can understand why he 
felt he hadnt been listened to, I dont think this shows that the member of staff was rude and 
Im not persuaded that Mr O had been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Barclays should pay Mr O 
the £700 compensation theyve previously offered him if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman