DRN-3221894
The complaint
Ms and Mr P complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their travel insurance claim and 
about its service. My references to AXA include its agents.
What happened
Ms and Mr P had travel insurance through a bank account, insured by AXA. On 10 February 
2019 they booked a multi-location holiday to a country in Europe for a special occasion and 
were due to travel from 24 to 29 July 2019.
In May 2019 Mr P saw an orthopaedic consultant about his ongoing hip problem and elective 
private hip replacement surgery was booked for 19 June 2019. On 17 June 2019 Mr P 
contacted the travel agent and cancelled the holiday. In late June 2019 Mr P had emergency 
bowel surgery following complications from his hip surgery.
Ms and Mr P claimed for the holiday cancellation on their policy as the travel agent hadnt 
refunded the costs. The medical certificate provided in support of the claim was completed 
by the consultant and said the cause of the claim was a large bowel obstruction and he was 
advised to cancel the holiday on 28 June 2019, which was after Ms and Mr P cancelled the 
holiday.
AXA declined the claim. As part of the claim assessment it had spoken to Mr P and 
contacted his GP, the consultant and the travel agent. AXAs final response letter says it 
declined the claim as:
Mr Ps consultant had told it there would have been no medical need to cancel the 
holiday due to the hip replacement, which had been the reason Ms and Mr P 
cancelled. As there was no medical evidence that it would have been medically 
necessary to cancel the holiday due to Mr Ps hip surgery there was no cover under 
the policy terms, and 
There had been multiple inconsistencies from Mr P about the claim, which its letter of 
13 January 2020 outlined. 
AXA paid Ms and Mr P £100 compensation to apologise for the distress and inconvenience 
in not contacting them about the complaint in the timescale it gave.
Ms and Mr P complained to us saying AXAs decision was unfair and it should pay the claim. 
In summary they said:
Mr Ps mild arthritis in his hip suddenly became much worse in April 2019 and his 
consultant recommended hip replacement surgery sooner rather than later. 
Before they cancelled the holiday Mr P phoned his orthopaedic consultants secretary 
and his consultant recommended postponing the holiday. 
When they made the claim, they were extremely stressed due to Mr P having had 
unexpected emergency life-saving bowel surgery. Mr P acknowledged he should 
have told AXA the hip replacement had been the reason for cancellation, not his 
bowel surgery.
Our investigator said AXA had fairly declined the claim. He accepted that due to the stress of 
the situation Mr P may not have initially told AXA the holiday was cancelled due to the hip 
replacement but hed seen no medical evidence to support that Mr Ps consultant had 
advised him to cancel the holiday due to the hip surgery.
Ms and Mr P disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They added that:
Before they cancelled the holiday Mr Ps consultant had advised, though his 
secretary, to cancel the holiday when he knew the level of activity involved in the 
holiday. The consultant repeated the advice when he saw Mr P after the hip surgery.
Mr Ps consultant had answered AXAs questions to the best of his memory. Mr Ps 
multiple surgeries meant his medical notes were very long and his travel insurance 
claim wouldnt be his consultants priority.
If AXA hadnt insisted on telephone consultations and a drawn out claim investigation 
to gather data but instead had relied on a paper trail for evidence it would have paid 
the claim. Mr P and his consultants memories have become a little vague/unclear 
with the background of multiple surgeries and other matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all of Ms and Mr Ps points although Ive only summarised the main 
points above.  
The relevant rules and industry guidance says that insurers should handle claims promptly 
and fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Im sorry to disappoint Ms and Mr P but 
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the cancellation section:
If You cancel the Trip due to Bodily Injury or illness You must provide a medical 
certificate from a Medical Practitioner stating that this necessarily and reasonably 
prevented You from travelling.
Both parties accept that the reason Ms and Mr P cancelled the holiday on 17 June 2019 was 
because Mr P was going to have a hip replacement. Mr P says his consultant advised 
cancellation before he cancelled. But in March 2020 AXA asked Mr Ps consultant questions 
about the hip surgery. The consultants evidence was that:
Had (Mr P) not had the serious operative complication then he would have been fine 
to go on holiday on 24th July 2019 as he would've been 5 weeks post-op.
AXA reasonably understood that meant the consultants opinion was Mr P could have gone 
on holiday despite the hip surgery and it was only the complication of the surgery that meant 
he couldnt go. Ive seen no medical evidence which shows that at the time Ms and Mr P 
cancelled the holiday it was medically necessary to do so.
The medical certificate from Mr Ps consultant, which weve sent to Ms and Mr P to see, 
shows Mr P was advised to cancel the holiday on 28 June 2019 because of his bowel 
obstruction. That was several days after Ms and Mr P cancelled the trip due to his hip 
surgery.
Ms and Mr P say his consultant has relied on his memory as his medical notes were so long. 
But the consultants secretary responded to AXAs questions saying:(The consultant) has been into the hospital today and has looked at (Mr P)'s notes 
and has answered your questions where he can as follows...
So I think AXA reasonably understood that Mr Ps consultant had provided a considered and  
accurate opinion.
I think AXA investigated the claim fairly. AXA could reasonably ask Mr P questions about his 
claim on the phone and follow up queries as appropriate, as its done. AXA contacted Mr Ps 
consultant in writing so he had the opportunity to consider Mr Ps medical notes before 
responding. 
Ms and Mr P submitted a claim form in September 2019 and AXA gave its initial claim 
response in January 2020. Following further investigation in response to Ms and Mr Ps 
comments its final response letter was in July 2020. Theres no evidence to support Ms and 
Mr Ps suggestion that AXA unreasonably delayed the claim outcome or that any delay 
caused Ms and Mr P disadvantage. AXA paid them £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience due to contacting them later than it said it would, which was fair.
Theres no cover for the claim under the terms of the policy as theres no medical evidence 
that it was medically necessary for Ms and Mr P to cancel the holiday at the time they 
cancelled. On the available evidence Im satisfied that AXA fairly and reasonably declined 
the claim.
AXAs final response letter says the multiple inconsistencies about the claim outlined in its 
letter of 13 January 2020 also contributed to the claim outcome. Those inconsistencies 
included:
When Ms and Mr P registered the claim online they said they cancelled the trip due 
to the bowel obstruction and during its call with Mr P he said theyd still planned to go 
on the holiday after the hip replacement surgery but were forced to cancel due to the 
bowel obstruction. 
But the travel agent told AXA Mr P had contacted them on 12,13 and 17 June 2019 
saying he was having a hip replacement on 19 June 2019 and wouldnt be able to 
travel. He cancelled the holiday on 17 June.
Mr P then told AXA his consultant had advised to cancel the holiday due to his hip 
surgery before he cancelled. The only medical evidence was that Mr Ps consultant 
advised to cancel the holiday due to his bowel obstruction, after the holiday had 
already been cancelled.
I understand why AXA is concerned at the inconsistencies in the evidence Mr P provided. 
But as in these circumstances I find that AXA fairly declined the claim on the basis Ive set 
out above I dont need to make a finding as to whether AXA could also fairly decline the 
claim on the basis of the inconsistencies.
In the correspondence between AXA, Mr P and our investigator the issue of whether Mr P 
was or wasnt on the NHS waiting list for a hip replacement within six months before the 
holiday was booked, and if so whether that excluded the claim under the policy terms, was 
also referred to. As I find AXA fairly declined the claim for the reason Ive set out above 
I dont need to make a finding as to whether AXA could also fairly decline the claim for 
another reason.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman