DRN-3327974
The complaint
Mrs P complains  through a representative  that investments sold to her in 1996 and 1998 
were unsuitable. Responsibility for the sales of the investments now sits with Zurich 
Assurance Ltd. To keep things clear, Ill refer to Zurich in this decision to mean them and 
their predecessors. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The investments in 1996 were unsuitably risky for Mrs P. She was noted to be very 
cautious when it came to the possibility of losing money. Zurich accept that the fund 
chosen exposed her money to a level of risk above that rating.
However, Zurich have taken steps to put that right. They say theyve assessed the 
performance of Mrs Ps 1996 investment against what would have been achieved if a 
fund suitable for a very cautious investor had been chosen. 
Mrs Ps representative has suggested using a different alternative to calculate 
redress. But Im satisfied that Zurich can reasonably refer to what they would have 
recommended at the time for someone with Mrs Ps particular attitude to risk. I find it 
likely Mrs P would have gone along with that recommendation at the time.
Zurichs calculation identified that Mrs P profited from the poor service. So I dont see 
they need to do anything further to resolve that part of the complaint. 
I can accept Mrs Ps attitude to risk had changed by 1998, as her circumstances and 
experience of investments changed. 
What we can see of the decision making process when recommending this 
investment shows Mrs Ps personal circumstances were considered by Zurich in a 
thorough way. Their recommendations then followed reasonably from that fact-
finding exercise. 
Affordability in 1998 doesnt look to have been an issue. Ultimately, Mrs P withdrew 
her money from the investment a few years later to invest in a property. That 
suggests she didnt need the money for everyday expenses, and could afford to keep 
it where it would take time to access. 
While the fund invested in did hold equities, these were spread over different areas 
and managed to continually monitor the overall risk of the fund. That reduces the risk 
posed by any one holding underperforming. 
Mrs Ps representative has questioned where she was told about the risk of this 
investment. But I find the time thats passed since the investment ended reasonably 
explains the lack of evidence that Mrs P was informed about the risk of her 
investment. 
For these reasons, Ive decided the recommendations were given reasonably, and havent 
resulted in an unsuitable outcome for Mrs P. So Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman