DRN-3821041
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs W was sold the policy in April 2000 at the same time as taking out the card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs W has told us that she didnt know she had been sold the policy  meaning that it was 
added to the card account without her knowledge or consent. But she has also said that she 
was led to believe that the policy was a compulsory part of the agreement. These statements 
are somewhat at odds with each other. So overall Im not persuaded that Mrs W has a 
particularly strong recollection of the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it took 
place.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ws application form for the card. There was a separate section for 
PPI that Mrs W has signed to select the policy. She could have left that section blank if she 
hadnt wanted PPI.
On balance, based on the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs W 
was given a choice about buying the policy. It seems to me that she probably decided to buy 
it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
AXA France didnt advise Mrs W to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the PPI was right for her.
Mrs W would have received some sick pay from her job. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. 
And Mrs W didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So it seems she 
had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Its possible that AXA France didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs W wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy. As I consider that she had an interest in the PPI and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused her to change her 
mind. So she is no worse off as a result of anything AXA France may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing that it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman