DRN-4319871
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) didnt refund her after she told it 
shed been the victim of a scam.
What happened
Ms A sent a payment of £450 to a person offering nutrition advice and related services. 
Ms A says that whilst she received some services, it wasnt what she expected, and she 
didnt get all she paid for. She contacted YBS to say shed been scammed and asked that it 
return her money.
YBS listened to what had happened but said the matter was a civil dispute and not a scam. 
During the course of delivering its findings, YBS agreed to send Ms A a complaint form, but it 
failed to do so.
Ms A complained further and YBS paid her £100 to acknowledge the inconvenience suffered 
as a result of needing to follow-up on her request.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms As complaint, Ill explain why.
Ms A raised her complaint on the basis that shed been scammed by the person she sent 
money to. But, whilst she may not have been satisfied with the services provided, and may 
not have received all she paid for, Im not persuaded shes been the victim of a scam. 
Instead, she appears to have a civil dispute with the person she sent money to. She did 
receive some of what she expected to. And the person appears to still be operating in the 
same field. Im not saying here that Ms A did receive all she paid for, or that she hasnt been 
perhaps mistreated by the person she sent money to. But Im not persuaded this was a 
scam, rather than a dispute about goods and services between a buyer and a seller.  
Because of this theres nothing more Id expect YBS to do, either now or at the time she 
raised the issue with it. 
Ms A has mentioned the CRM Code, which offers scam protection to the customers of banks 
that signatories to it. But YBS hasnt signed up to the Code. And as Ms A hasnt been the 
victim of a scam, she wouldnt be due a refund under it in any case. 
It seems YBS did fail to deliver on its promise to provide Ms A with a complaint form. It 
recognised its failings here when Ms A pursued her complaint, and it paid her £100 in 
compensation. That appears to be fair and reasonable compensation as a result of the 
additional and otherwise unnecessary action required by Ms A. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Yorkshire Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman