DRN-3091865
The complaint
Miss B (through a representative) has complained that Hamsard 3225 Limited trading as 
CLC Finance (Hamsard) gave her unaffordable loans. 
  
What happened
Miss B took 9 home collected loans from Hamsard between December 2017 and January 
2020. A summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Hamsard 
can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly cost per 
loan
1 £100.00 01/12/2017 23/02/2018 16 £10.00
2 £100.00 26/01/2018 20/07/2018 23 £7.50
3 £125.00 23/02/2018 20/07/2018 21 £10.63
4 £100.00 20/07/2018 14/12/2018 23 £7.60
5 £125.00 20/07/2018 09/11/2018 21 £10.63
6 £150.00 09/11/2018 22/11/2019 23 £11.40
7 £120.00 14/12/2018 22/11/2019 32 £6.00
8 £100.00 14/12/2018 18/10/2019 23 £7.60
9 £100.00 24/01/2020 outstanding 18 £10.00
Ive included the weekly cost per loan, but the amount Miss B owed Hamsard each week 
would depend on whether there were any overlapping loans, so for example, when loan 22 
was granted Miss Bs commitment to Hamsard was £17.50 per week.
Miss B had some problems repaying loans 6  8 as these appear to have only been able to 
have been repaid following a repayment plan. And based on what Hamsard has told us an 
outstanding balance remains due on her final loan. 
Following an investigation, Hamsard didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
An adjudicator reviewed the case and thought Hamsard was wrong to have provided loans 2 
 9. For loans 2 and 3 the adjudicator concluded that Miss B was due to repay a significant 
portion of her declared income to Hamsard. 
The adjudicator then concluded rom loan 4, Hamsard hadnt carried out proportionate 
checks  and its checks needed to go further than relying on what Miss B had declared. She 
could see from the credit report that Miss B had an outstanding County Court Judgement 
from 2014 and had defaults and arrears with another home credit provider. 
From loan 6, the adjudicator concluded that the loans were now unsustainable for Miss B 
and so loans 6 - 8 also ought to not have been provided. 
Miss B has accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Hamsard didnt agree, and in response it made a number of points. In summary it said;
The industry regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) authorised Hamsard 
on 2017 and didnt raise any concerns. 
West Yorkshire trading standards also regular review its operating procedures. 
The FCA also asked about Hamsards lending policies in early 2019
The FCA carried out a review entitled Business Model Drivers of Unaffordable 
lending the results of this review didnt recommend any changes to the regulations. 
If the FCA had any concerns or issues with its procedures these wouldve be raised 
with Hamsard as part of its condition of licence or the rules wouldve been changed. 
Hamsard reiterated that affordability checks were conducted on each loan and these 
checks showed Miss B would be able to afford the repayments. 
A credit search was also conducted for each application. 
Miss B didnt tell Hamsard that she was having financial difficulties.
Hamsard doesnt charge late fees for non-payment neither does it take legal action. 
Hamsard says that if it followed the approach recommended by the adjudicator 
customers could switch to another lender and therefore a customers indebtedness 
could increase and / or it could push the consumer to use unregulated lenders.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided.
Hamsard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Hamsard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Hamsard was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. T this is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. 
Loan 1
The adjudicator didnt uphold this loan, and Miss B appears to have accepted the 
adjudicators outcome. Hamsard also appears to have accepted her findings into this loan. 
So, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. But, for the avoidance of 
doubt, given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this 
lending. And as this loan forms part of the borrowing relationship Miss B had with the lender, 
they are something I have taken into account when considering the later loans, she 
borrowed.
Loans 2 and 3
The adjudicator upheld these loans because in her view, the percentage of Miss Bs 
declared income that she was due to pay Hamsard was too great. And therefore, these 
loans ought to not have been granted. Ive thought carefully about this reasoning, and I 
agree with the adjudicator, and Ive explained why below. 
Around a month after taking loan 1, Miss B returned for loan 2, she borrowed the same 
amount as before, but this time chose to make her repayments over a longer term, which 
had the effect, of not only increasing her time in debt, but also reducing the weekly 
repayments  potentially to make the loan affordable. 
Loan 3 was taken a further month after loan 2, and this was her largest loan to date. Loan 1 
was repaid on the same day but using proceeds from loan 3. So, although the loan was for 
£125 around £35 of that sum went towards settling loan 1. 
When loans 2 and 3 were granted Miss B declared she had a weekly income of £102. I think 
its fair to describe this as modest. For both loans she also declared that her weekly 
outgoings were £44.50. 
Again, these outgoings are quite modest, given Miss B only declared costs for gas, electric, 
water and food. I consider it more likely than not that Miss B had further outgoings than what 
she declared and or her outgoings were more than this. But I think its fair to say, that at this 
point, Hamsard, based on what Miss B declared was already committed to spending nearly 
50% of her weekly income on just her living costs. On top of this she had to service her 
loans with Hamsard. For both of these loans, Miss Bs total repayment to Hamsard was around £17 a week, given 
she had overlapping loans. This equates to around 17% of Miss Bs declared income. 
As Ive explained above, the loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of what Im 
consideration. I also have to consider whether the loans were sustainable. Given, Miss Bs 
modest income and outgoings, and the fact that Miss B was committed to paying this sum to 
Hamsard for a not insignificant period of time, I do now think, that it had reached the point 
where the loans repayments were unsustainable for Miss B. There was a real possibly that 
she couldnt repay these loans fully without needing to take further borrowing, which is what 
ended up happening. So, my decision is that Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about loans 2 
and 3. 
Loans 4 and 5
Miss B was able to repay loans 2 and 3 without any obvious repayment problems. But it 
looks like Miss B was only able to repay loans 2 and 3 on the date that she did because 
once again she had effectively refinanced these loans. So, a portion of the capital from loans 
4 and 5 (around £70) went towards repaying loans 2 and 3. So even though Miss B 
borrowed a total of £225 for these loans, she actually only received around £154. 
Even though, Miss B hadnt borrowed any more capital than the previous loans and was now 
committing to repay the same amount to Hamsard as shed previously done (combined 
weekly repayments of around £17 per week) she was doing so for an additional 21 weeks.  
Miss Bs outgoings were roughly the same as they were for loans 2 and 3 - £49.50 per week 
again this is quite modest. But, Hamsard has recorded a significant increase in Miss Bs 
income, she is now working part time and is still in receipt of benefits. This led to her weekly 
income increasing to around £283. It also seems at this point, that Hamsard saw some 
evidence of her income. So, I think its fair to say at this point that Hamsard had a fairly good 
idea of Miss B actual income. 
But like the adjudicator, I do think, given the way Miss B was using these loans, and the fact 
she was extending her term out even further the checks needed to go further than just 
relying on what Miss B declared about her outgoings. I think it had now reached the point, 
where Hamsard needed to make further enquires and verify with Miss B about her living 
costs, including whether she had any other credit commitments. For these loans, Hamsard 
didnt carry out a proportionate check. 
So, Ive thought about what Hamsard may have seen had it carried out, what I consider to be 
a proportionate check. Miss B hasnt provided this Service with a copy of her bank 
statements, but she has provided a copy of her credit file. 
I dont consider it unreasonable to use this because its worth noting at this point, that 
Hamsard told this Service in the response to the adjudicators assessment that it carried out 
a credit check. But it hasnt provided the results for any of the loans. 
Having looked at Miss Bs credit file, Ive come to the same conclusions of the adjudicator. 
There was sufficient information contained within to indicate to Hamsard that Miss B was 
having financial difficulties as she was struggling to repay outstanding debts. Ive been able 
to confirm the following;
Miss B had been discharged from a debt relief order in 2015, I appreciate this was 
just under three years before these loans, but its an indication she had previously 
had significant financial difficulties. She had an unpaid County Court Judgement from 2014  and it doesnt appear any 
payments were being made towards this balance.  
Miss B had at least two other outstanding home credit loans  with other providers. 
For one of the loans, Miss B was paying a further £21 per week  but she was only 
able to repay this due to being on a payment arrangement. This loan was closed at 
the end of July, so to me this suggests that she had immediate and ongoing financial 
difficulties at the point Hamsard approved loans 4 and 5. 
A default was recorded on Miss Bs credit file in June 2018 in connection with a 
mobile phone contract.
Miss B also had a catalogue shopping account that needing servicing  which from 
June 2018 had started to get into arrears  again a further sign that Miss B was 
having difficulties. 
There was evidence that Miss B had been using at least another three other home 
credit providers for a number of years.
Overall, the picture Ive gathered from Miss Bs credit file, is someone, who given the recent 
arrears and defaults was in a difficult financial position. It also shows that Miss Bs declared 
weekly outgoings couldnt be accurate because by now Hamsard ought to have been aware 
of her other, outstanding credit commitments. 
So, I dont think it was sustainable to further increase her indebtedness by providing her 
further lending, because I dont think she had the ability to take on these loans at the time.
 
Loans 6 - 9
Hamsards response concerns how this service approaches repeat lending and the rules and 
regulations that were in place at the time and how it has complied with them. We have 
responded to Hamsard on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, 
and the published decisions on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at 
length here. 
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6-9 were proportionate and 
Ill explain why below. 
I will say that Ive not found what Hamsard says about its checks to be persuasive in 
demonstrating the loans were either affordable or sustainable. It looks like, based on what 
has been provided, that Hamsard took the same sort of information for each loan, that being 
asking Miss B about her income and her expenditure.  
So, Im not clear how Hamsard can say it carried out proportionate checks when, as Ive said 
above, it doesnt appear to have changed the type or level of checks despite Miss B 
returning for new loans fairly regularly as well as showing signs of potential financial 
difficulties when it took her longer than intended to repay a number of loans for example 
loans 6 - 8. So, the fact Miss B confirmed she could afford the loans doesnt set aside the 
requirement for Hamsard to carry out proportionate checks. 
Although Hamsard says that there is no record of Miss B raising her concerns with its agent 
about financial difficulties, it doesnt mean there werent any financial difficulties, and Im not 
sure what bearing that has on the case. What Im considering is whether Hamsard did 
something wrong when it lent these loans  in line with the rules and regulations at the time. 
As I have explained, I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for 
these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. But I would say, by this time that 
a proportionate check, in my view, wouldve been verifying the information Miss B had provided. Hamsard couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve asked for evidence of 
her income, and her outgoings via the way of copies of bills. Or it couldve asked to see a 
copy of her bank statements. Based on what Ive seen, Im not convinced that any of the 
checks on the loans from loan 6 onwards were proportionate. 
But, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Miss B, Hamsard also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during the course of its lending relationship with Miss B. 
I think Hamsard was wrong to have provided loans 6-9 because Miss B wasnt in a position 
to sustainably repay them for the following reasons:
By loan 6, Miss B had been indebted to Hamsard for under a year. During this time, 
she had taken six loans with terms of up to five months, but most of the loans were 
due to be repaid within three to four months. But it seems that Miss B was settling 
these loans quicker than Hamsard had expected but she was only doing so by taking 
further loans. So Hamsard ought to have realised it was more likely that Miss B was 
having longer term problems as the need for credit continued.
Miss B appeared to be showing signs that she needed to borrow a new loan as soon 
as (or close to) settling a previous loan  usually using the new loan to settle the 
balance. She was granted loan 6 on the same day loan 5 had been repaid. Loans 4 
and 5 was also taken out the same day that loans 2 and 3 were repaid. This 
continued need for credit ought to have alerted Hamsard to consider whether the 
loans were sustainable.
Miss B was regularly making repayments to a number of loans at the same time. This 
suggests that Miss B wasnt making any real improvements to the amount she owed 
Hamsard. She went on to exhibit the same pattern of borrowing for her subsequent 
loans  and at times had at least three loans running concurrently.
Loan 6 was Miss Bs largest capital loan to date and loan 4 was also running at the 
same time. The total repayments due at this time were around £19 per week which is 
more than two times what Miss B initially paid for her first loan. The weekly 
repayments didnt sustainably decrease over the remaining borrowing period. Even 
for the final loan, Miss B was still paying Hamsard more than her first. So, Miss Bs 
overall indebtedness to Hamsard didnt significantly decrease over the time she 
borrowed. 
Miss B didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Hamsard. Loan 9 was 
taken out was taken out just over two years after Miss Bs first. And it was for the 
same amount. Miss B had paid interest to, in effect, service a debt to Hamsard over 
an extended period.
Finally, there are also period in time when Miss B takes significantly longer than Hamsard 
expected for her to repay her final loans. Miss B was only able to do so by appearing to 
agree to a repayment plan. Given the number of loans, the time in debt and the overlapping 
nature of these loans is to me a clear indicator that Miss B was having wider financial 
problems. 
I think that Miss B lost out because Hamsard continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowingher to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Miss B borrowed and the time she spent in debt was likely 
to have had negative implications on Miss Bs ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these loans.
So, overall, having considered everything Im upholding Miss Bs complaint as I think 
Hamsard were wrong to approve loans 2 - 9 for these reasons.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Hamsard should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss B from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought
to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss B may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss B in a compliant way at this time. I also havent seen any
evidence to suggest that Miss B wouldve approached an unregulated lender for funds, as
Hamsard has raised.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss B would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Hamsards liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Hamsard shouldnt have given Miss B loans 2 - 9. 
If Hamsard has sold the outstanding debt Hamsard should buy it back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Hamsard is not able to buy the debt back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Hamsard should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B. Hamsard should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Hamsard should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss B as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss B 
having made overpayments then Hamsard should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Hamsard should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B can 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss B. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Hamsard should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss B.
E. Hamsard should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in 
relation to loans 2 to 5.The overall pattern of Miss Bs borrowing for loans 6 - 9 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Hamsard should remove 
these loans entirely from Miss Bs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Hamsard should give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint in part.
Hamsard 3225 Limited trading as CLC Finance should put things right for Miss B as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman