DRN-3817791
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions she didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Monzo accepted these were unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Miss W failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and 
keep her personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded she failed with 
gross negligence. Ill explain why.
Miss W was called by someone pretending to be from Monzos fraud team. She said 
they knew information about her, like her new address, account details and the 
phone she used. So, I can see why she trusted them. 
Miss W was told that someone was trying to make transactions using her card. She 
had recently fallen victim to a phishing text scam which convinced her to share her 
card details. So, I can understand how the context of the call seemed plausible and 
why she became worried about the safety of her money.  
She was asked to forward an email that she received from Monzo  they told her 
they needed this to help set up a new PIN and protect her account. 
Monzo submit that Miss W shouldve been put off by the warning not to forward it, 
even to them. Shes explained she did question this with the caller, and they 
reassured her she wasnt forwarding it to just anyone  and I note they gave her a 
legitimate looking email address to use. Shes also said she was panicked that if she 
didnt, someone would steal her money.  
In the heat of the moment, talking with someone shed been cleverly convinced to 
trust, I can see why she followed their instructions. Im not convinced she acted with 
very significant carelessness to say that she failed with gross negligence. 
Miss W was also asked to confirm her old PIN before they could issue a new one. 
Monzo submit its universally known that people shouldnt share their PIN. But Im 
mindful that people use their PIN with Monzo for lots of different reasons (and not just 
to do with payments). So, I dont think it sounded entirely implausible that she might 
be asked for it in this context. 
The circumstances are again important to consider here: this was a well-orchestrated 
scam, where she understandably felt under pressure by someone she thought was a 
trusted professional. Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss Ws actions fell so 
far below what a reasonable person wouldve done to conclude she failed with gross 
negligence. 
It follows that I conclude Miss W isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo needs to 
put things right  by refunding her losses from these unauthorised transactions 
alongside interest to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Ive also considered Miss Ws non-financial losses. I understand that Monzo has 
already paid her £100 for delays in its investigation. Our investigator recommended a 
further £100. Given that Monzo shouldve refunded this much sooner and its clear 
this put Miss W under a lot of stress about how shed meet her living costs, I agree 
this is a fair award. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Miss W the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £8,935.50.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay a further £100 for Miss Ws distress and inconvenience. I understand £100 has 
already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman