DRN-3852119
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society was late releasing the funds for her 
mortgage on the day of completion, so she wasnt able to complete her purchase that day. 
What happened
Miss S said Nationwide sent her a text and email the day before her house sale and 
purchase were due to complete, saying that the funds for her mortgage were ready and 
would be available. Miss S also told us shed planned this move very carefully to reduce the 
impact on her family, and she explained why that was so important in their circumstances. 
But she said that on the morning of her move, the funds hadnt been released, and she 
spent hours on the phone trying to find out why not. 
Miss S said the funds were eventually released that day, but too late for her purchase. Her 
sale had completed, so she was left homeless until the next day, when her purchase was 
done. She said she had to make emergency arrangements to house all her belongings on a 
Friday night, and wasnt able to get them to her new home until the following Monday. She 
said that despite her careful plans, the move impacted her family significantly. 
Miss S said Nationwide had offered to refund the extra moving costs she paid, and to pay 
£350 in compensation. But she said shed turned that down, it wasnt enough to make up for 
what had gone on. 
Nationwide said it took responsibility for the late release of funds, but it wanted Miss S to 
know that this wasnt initially Nationwides fault. It said it didnt receive a Certificate of Title 
(COT) form from Miss Ss solicitors until the day before completion, although Nationwide 
says it needs at least 48 hours of notice to transfer funds. And it hadnt received a full 
response to some of its concerns over the value of the property until 19 May, when it 
received a solicitors letter dated 17 May, for its valuer to review. Nationwide said it usually 
has an eight working day turnaround for such letters, but in this case, it reviewed the letter 
faster, in order to have funds available for Miss S on 27 May.
Nationwide still thought it should have had the funds available for Miss Ss solicitor by 12pm 
on 27 May 2022, and it said it was very sorry that things had gone wrong. 
Nationwide has sent Miss S a cheque for £1,257.76, which it said was to cover all the costs 
shed incurred, plus some interest, and £350 in compensation as an apology. - 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, and Nationwide should increase its 
compensation payment to £450. She said she agreed the COT was not received with 
sufficient notice to release the funds, but she thought Nationwide had caused avoidable 
delays, which in turn caused the delay in the COT being submitted.
Our investigator said Nationwides valuers had to resolve a concern over the property, and 
she thought that Nationwide had all it needed on that by late March. But the referral to its 
valuers wasnt done until 23 May. Our investigator thought that this was why Miss Ss 
solicitors werent able to complete the COT. So our investigator thought Nationwide should 
pay Miss S the costs it had already offered to cover, plus £450 in compensation. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said Nationwide contacted her the day before the move to say the 
funds were ready. That shouldnt have happened, and was evidence that Nationwide's 
internal departments hadn't communicated with each other. She said if the relevant 
departments were talking to each other, Nationwide would have identified the missing 
information. 
Miss S said Nationwide saying that the usual process is 48 hours of notice was irrelevant to 
her as a customer. This wasnt her mistake. Miss S wanted an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint, because she felt that what had been offered didnt compensate for the stress and 
cost to her mental health Nationwide caused that day.
Nationwide said it wouldnt agree that it had all of the information it needed for its valuer by 
late March. It sent us a letter from Miss Ss solicitors, with an attached indemnity policy. This 
was dated 17 May and Nationwide said it was received on 19 May. So there were still issues 
outstanding long after our investigator suggested things were resolved.
But Nationwide said it did accept there were service issues with the completion and 
releasing of the funds, so it would pay the additional £100 our investigator suggested. 
Because Miss S had requested it, this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Miss S told us Nationwide contacted her to say her funds were ready on 26 May. But it looks 
from the internal notes I have seen as if her solicitors were still asking about this late on 26 
May, and indeed early on 27 May. Those notes suggest Miss Ss solicitors were told, late in 
the working day on 26 May, that Nationwide wasnt ready, because it was awaiting a 
response from its external valuer. I would have expected these concerns to be passed on to 
Miss S, so that she would always have been aware that her purchase might not go ahead 
the following day. 
I think that this would still have been an enormously stressful time for Miss S. And I would 
not seek to make light of this. But I cant say its Nationwides fault if she had expected the 
money to be released on 27 May, and her solicitors hadnt let her know about the problems 
she was likely to face.
Nationwide has pointed to two reasons why things didnt go smoothly  the late COT, and 
the outstanding concerns about the property which were with its valuer to review. It told us 
about the timescales it has in place for receiving confirmation from a valuer that 
arrangements for dealing with a concern about the property (such as an indemnity) are 
satisfactory. And its told us about the timescales it has for arranging the release of funds 
and a transfer to the conveyancing solicitor. 
The COT is an important document because it tells Nationwide where to send the money, 
but also because it provides the final go-ahead from Miss Ss solicitors for the whole 
purchase to go ahead and the mortgage to be taken out. And I can see Nationwide specifies, on its mortgage offer conditions, that it requires a minimum of 48 hours notice for a transfer 
of mortgage funds. I can see, from the date and time on the fax header for the COT, that 
Nationwide didnt get that much notice.
Miss S says this just isnt relevant to her. But I think it is  because when I think about what 
went wrong here, I have to bear in mind that at this point, Nationwide could simply have 
refused to complete the following day. Under the terms of the offer it had made, Nationwide 
didnt have to agree to release money with less than 48 hours notice. 
But Nationwide seems to have tried hard to do so. It didnt do this as quickly as it wanted to, 
but it did manage to speed things up so that funds were released on the agreed day. 
I know Miss S says the money was sent too late to allow all the transactions in the chain to 
go ahead. But I also have to bear in mind that it could equally be argued Miss Ss completion 
finally failed because some of the solicitors involved seem to have gone home promptly on a 
Friday night, rather than stay and complete what Miss S told us was the last purchase in the 
chain. What Miss S has said makes me think that if that hadnt happened, her purchase 
could still have gone ahead, despite Nationwides failure to release funds earlier. 
We know Nationwide has accepted some responsibility for what went wrong. Its offered to 
pay a total of £1,357.76 which includes money to cover the extra costs Miss S incurred, and 
compensation for what went wrong. 
I know Miss S has told us about the particular circumstances of her family, which meant the 
impact on them was much more severe, and she says that whats been offered isnt enough 
to make up for that. I have considered that carefully, and as Ive said, I would not seek in any 
way to make light of the experience she and her family have had. But I havent been able to 
see that all the things that have gone wrong here are Nationwides fault. For that reason, I 
think the offer Nationwide has now made does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, and thats what Ill award.
Nationwide has already sent Miss S a cheque. I dont know if thats been cashed, so I will 
award the full amount of that cheque, plus the additional £100 that our investigator 
suggested, and which Nationwide has already agreed to pay. And Ill allow Nationwide to 
count any money that it has already paid towards that amount. That means, if Miss S has 
cashed this cheque, Nationwide will only need to pay £100 now.
My final decision
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Miss S a total of £1,357.76 for this 
complaint. Nationwide Building Society can count towards that amount any payment it has 
already made to Miss S for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman