DRN-3738189
The complaint
Company S complained about The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd  
trading as SAGIC. It isnt happy that they turned down a claim under their Self-Storage 
Contents Insurance Policy.
What happened
S made a claim under its Self-Storage Contents Policy after it realised some items had been 
stolen from its storage unit. Initially S thought an item must have been left elsewhere with a 
family member and not stored in the unit, but when it checked it realised that the item had 
been left at the unit. And around this time S also noticed that other items had been stolen as 
well. S couldnt tell how the thieves had got into the unit as there was no sign of the locks 
being forced but presumed access had been gained through the ceiling tiles above the unit.
When SAGIC looked into the claim they declined the claim. They said that there wasnt any 
evidence of violent and forcible entry or exit from your individual storage unit which was a 
requirement of the policy in situations like this. As S wasnt happy about this it complained to 
this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for S but didnt uphold its complaint. Although she 
sympathised with Company S she didnt think that SAGIC had done anything wrong in 
relying on its policy terms and conditions in declining the claim. 
As S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Company S position as it feels that items have been stolen from its 
storage unit. But I have to be fair and reasonable to both sides when I consider a complaint 
and I just dont feel there is sufficient evidence to say the theft occurred as S said or that 
SAGIC has acted unreasonably in turning down the claim. I say this as there isnt any 
evidence of violent or forcible entry which means the claim isnt covered under the policy.
Initially S wasnt aware that there had been a theft from its storage unit and believed the 
missing items had been left elsewhere. But having checked the position it realised items 
were missing and believed they have been stolen from its storage unit. S told SAGIC that the 
thief must have gained entry by removing the roof tiles from its storage unit but SAGIC has 
said that there isnt any sign of violent and forced entry. 
Ive looked at the photos and considered Company S account and it is clear that there isnt 
any sign of violent or forced entry. The roof tiles are slight and look like they have just been 
dislodged. And I would expect there to be a greater degree of damage sustained if entry had 
been gained by this method. The frame surrounding the tiles isnt very sturdy and I would 
expect to see some damage if someone managed to climb through the slot and steal the 
items mentioned which arent small. Given this and the fact that there isnt any sign of violent 
or forced entry I dont think SAGICs position is unreasonable. 
I know S has gone on to suggest the theft must have taken place by some other means and 
suggests that perhaps someone working at the Storage Unit gained entry. But again, there 
isnt any evidence that the locks, which S had the keys for, have been tampered with so Im 
not persuaded that there is any evidence of this either. S has also suggested that the police 
are aware of a problem at the Storage Unit, but it hasnt provided any supporting evidence of 
this. 
Overall, Im satisfied SAGIC hasnt acted unreasonably in turning down the claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. If Company S gains any further evidence in support of its 
position I would expect SAGIC to consider this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman