DRN-4324047
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun 
Life Financial of Canada (Sun Life) mis-sold him a personal pension policy when it shouldve 
advised him to join his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS).
Mr B was advised to take out the personal pension covered in this complaint by a business 
which is now part of Sun Life, so its responsible for the complaint. 
Mr B has other complaints with Sun Life. But this complaint only refers to a specified 
personal pension policy. The additional issues Mr B raised in his submission to this service 
have either been raised as separate complaints with Sun Life or resolved. 
What happened
Mr B has a number of personal pension policies which were sold to him by Sun Life. This 
complaint is about a policy he started in late 1991. I understand that this policy remained in 
force until 27 July 2021, when Mr B transferred the benefits to another provider. At the time, 
it was valued at £10,893.19.
Mr B said that a debt collector knocked on his door one night in 1991, looking for Mr Bs ex-
wife. He said that debt collector had another role as a Sun Life adviser. And that during the 
ensuing explanation about his separation from his ex-wife, the adviser had advised him not 
to join his OPS, as the Child Support Agency would confiscate the proceeds from the OPS at 
a later date. 
Mr B said that the adviser told him he should start a personal pension instead. He said that 
the whole reason hed got involved with Sun Life was because he was about to join his 
company pension.
Mr B said that his next Sun Life adviser told him that the first adviser had been dismissed for 
malpractice. 
On the personal pension policy documentation from the time of the sale, a form Mr B 
appears to have completed said he worked for a business Ill refer to as business D. This 
business has subsequently changed name more than once. But at the time of the sale in 
October 1991 the business Mr B said he worked for wasnt actually called business D. I 
understand Mr Bs employer had been bought by another business earlier in 1991 and that it 
had taken on the name of the purchaser. But the paperwork from the personal pension sale 
refers to business D. 
Mr B said that he was eligible to join his employers OPS at the time of the advice. But that 
every time he mentioned this to Sun Life advisers between October 1991 and 1995 - when 
he said a manager had virtually insisted he joined the OPS - he was strongly advised that 
the personal pension was his best option.
Mr B said that after a recent financial review, hed been advised to raise some complaints 
with Sun Life. And to seek financial redress over various personal pensions itd sold him 
between 1991 and 1995. So he complained to Sun Life on 28 July 2022. He said hed been 
told that hed receive better returns with a Sun Life personal pension than his OPS. 
Mr B listed a number of pension plans in his original complaint. He asked Sun Life to 
compensate him for the financial losses hed suffered due to their mis-sale. 
Sun Life wrote to Mr B a number of times to tell him it was still considering his complaint. 
And on 14 December 2022, it wrote to him again to say it was still investigating whatd 
happened. It apologised for taking longer than expected. And said itd write to Mr B once itd 
finished investigating his complaint. It also provided referral rights to this service.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service on 21 December 2022. He said that when hed 
decided to consolidate his pensions in 2021, hed received Cash Equivalent Transfer Values 
(CETVs) from two company pensions. And that the value of these was far in excess of the 
Sun Life personal pension values. This led him to consider that hed been misled into 
thinking the purchase of a personal pension was more favourable than joining his employers 
OPS at the time of the sale. Mr B feels Sun Life shouldve advised him to join his OPS. And 
that if it had, he wouldve been better off.
On 8 February 2023, Sun Life told this service that its paperwork showed that two of the 
personal pension policies Mr B had complained about had been reviewed under the Pension 
Review. It said it was waiting to confirm this through a review of the archived Pension 
Review files, which itd requested. It later confirmed that two of the policies complained 
about had already been considered in the Pension Review in 2001. And that Mr B had 
agreed to the redress offered. Mr B acknowledged that his complaint about two of the 
policies in his original complaint had been previously addressed.
Sun Life issued its final response to the complaint on 13 February 2023. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said that when Mr Bs policy had started in October 1991, he was 29, and 
employed by business D earning £21,600 each year. But it said that the records showed that 
his employment had been on a non-pensionable basis. So he hadnt had the option of joining 
the OPS at the time of the sale. 
As such, Sun Life felt that the sale of the personal pension policy in October 1991 had been 
appropriate for his circumstances. And had met Mr Bs needs at the time. 
Mr B replied to Sun Life on 22 February 2023 as he didnt feel it had considered all of his 
complaint points. He felt that he shouldnt have started the personal pension policy in 1991. 
And that he shouldve been advised to join his OPS, which he said he had been eligible to 
join. He said that he did join that OPS in 1995. And that an August 2021 CETV for the 
benefits hed accrued whilst a member of that scheme was £92K, which was many times 
more valuable that the amount his personal pension policy had realised.
Mr B said he received no reply to his 22 February 2023 email, which he sent again on 27 
March 2023.
Our investigator asked Mr B for evidence of his eligibility to join his OPS at the time of the 
advice in 1991. 
Our investigator noted that parts of Mr Bs complaint might be out of time. But on 4 May 
2023 Sun Life gave this service its consent to considering the merits of this complaint. 
Both Mr B and Sun Life have confirmed to this service that they dont have any additional 
documentation about the personal pension policy sale, or copies of any correspondence 
between Mr B and his advisers between 1991 and 1995.Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt Mr B shouldve been 
advised to join his employers OPS in August 1991. He said that the initial financial analysis 
document dated 16 August 1991 had stated that Mr B was eligible to join his employers 
OPS. And had noted that he: may take up company plan later on. Given this, he felt the 
adviser shouldve discussed the OPS with Mr B and found out why he hadnt yet joined. But 
hed seen no evidence that such discussions had taken place. 
To put things right, our investigator felt that Sun Life should put Mr B, as far as possible into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. He felt Mr B wouldve joined 
his employers OPS. And that Sun Life should therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the pension review methodology for opt-out/non-joiners of money purchase 
schemes. Our investigator also felt that Sun Life should pay Mr B £150 compensation for the 
loss of expectation hed experienced when he compared the value of his personal pension 
policy in 2021 with the CETVs provided by his OPSs. 
Mr B accepted our investigators findings. Sun Life asked for an ombudsman review, but 
provided no additional rationale for its request.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
I asked Mr B to provide the paperwork for the CETV he said hed received in August 2021. 
This showed that he joined his then employers Final Salary OPS on 1 September 1995 and 
left it on 30 December 1996. But I wasnt satisfied that Id seen enough evidence that the 
Final Salary OPS Mr B joined in 1995 was the same one that he couldve joined in 1991. So 
I asked him if he could provide further evidence of the OPS he couldve joined in 1991. I also 
wanted to understand if he wouldve been eligible to join the OPS at that time. 
With information from former colleagues, who had retained records relating to the pension 
plans and the dates that they were applicable, Mr B explained the following:
Although business D had been bought by another business in early 1991, its OPS 
wasnt rolled into the new businesss pension until 1993. The business D pension 
was a Money Purchase arrangement.  
Hed joined business D in January 1988. He hadnt at this time joined the OPS 
because money was very tight as he had a new mortgage and new family.
But in late 1990 his marriage broke up and he divorced the following year. He said at 
this point he was determined to put his financial future back on a firm footing and to 
join his company OPS. But unfortunately this is when the debt collector knocked on 
his door and advised him not to. 
Business D had operated a Final Salary OPS. But this changed to a Money Purchase 
OPS in 1989. Mr Bs former colleague said that scheme continued until 1 June 1994, 
when its members joined the OPS of the business which bought business D in early 
1991. 
Mr B hasnt been able to provide any details about the contributions he mightve been 
required to pay in the OPS. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the pension policy 
was mis-sold. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
I first considered whether the advice was suitable.
Was the advice suitable?
Sun Life provided the documents from the time of the sale of Mr Bs pension policy on 21 
October 1991. These documents recorded his employer at the point of sale as business D, 
not the business which had bought business D in early 1991. They also include a copy of a 
payslip from business D dated 16 October 1991.
Sun Lifes initial financial analysis document dated 16 August 1991 stated that Mr B was 
eligible to join his employers OPS and that he may take up company plan later on. 
I understand that the fact that the documents from the time of the sale recorded business D 
as Mr Bs employer forms at least part of the basis for Sun Lifes rejection of the complaint. 
But Im more persuaded by Mr Bs evidence that he did actually work for the purchaser of 
business D at the time of the advice and that he was eligible to join the OPS of that 
employer.
I say this because Mr B provided the following testimony to this service, which Im satisfied 
shows that a simple mistake was made on the policy documentation when business D was 
stated as Mr Bs current employer, rather than the purchaser of business D:
- When he completed the policy documentation, it was a pressured environment with a 
lot of things being required of him at once. So either he made a mistake when he 
wrote the previous name of his employer on the documentation, or someone else 
incorrectly completed that part of the form on his behalf. 
- At the time of the advice he had three colleagues on the same pay and employment 
conditions who are still colleagues today. All three were eligible and did enrol into the 
OPS with the purchaser of business D  the name hed included on the policy 
documentation in 1991. Mr B said he is sure that like his colleagues, he was also 
eligible to join the OPS at the time. And that the only reason he didnt join his OPS in 
1991 was because of the advice hed received.
- Mr B provided evidence that business D had been bought by the business whose 
OPS hed joined in 1995 on 2 April 1991, six months before hed completed the 
policy documentation. And said that hed worked for business D before the sale of 
the business, and then the purchaser of that business thereafter. He said business D 
no longer existed after the purchase.
- Mr B wrote to the person he said was his former Divisional Director in 1991 at the 
purchaser of business D. And that person then wrote to the Company Secretary of 
that purchaser. Mr B then provided email evidence from those former colleagues that 
he was employed by the purchaser of business D at the time of the sale, rather than 
business D. And that he was eligible to join the purchasers plan.
Our investigator shared this evidence with Sun Life. And asked it for its thoughts on whether 
Mr B shouldve been advised to purchase a personal pension rather than join his OPS under 
the circumstances. 
Sun Life asked our investigator if Mr B could provide some form of documentation, for example, his contract of employment from the time of the advice, before it would consider 
this evidence. But Mr B hasnt been able to obtain any such documentation.
From the information Mr B has provided, including the additional information he provided this 
service with after our investigator issued his view, Im satisfied that he was eligible to join the 
business D OPS at the time of the advice. And that the OPS was a Money Purchase 
scheme. 
Mr B hasnt been able to provide any contribution details for the OPS. So I cant assess 
whether such contributions wouldve been affordable. But I consider its unlikely that Mr B 
wouldnt have been able to afford membership. I say this because Mr B could clearly afford 
some pension contributions. And because I consider it unlikely that business Ds OPS 
wouldve required a high level of employee contributions to join.
Ive also got no information on how much business D wouldve contributed into the OPS on 
Mr Bs behalf. But I think its reasonable to assume that it wouldve made contributions on 
behalf of its employees.  
I acknowledge that Sun Life made a reasonable request when it asked for further 
documentary evidence before considering the testimonial evidence Mr B has provided. But 
Im satisfied that Mr B has done all he can to evidence that he was in fact working for the 
purchaser of business D at the time of the sale. And that he was eligible to join the Money 
Purchase OPS that was still on available to him.
And, regardless of the fact that Sun Life isnt yet comfortable enough with Mr Bs testimony 
to conclude that he was eligible to join his employers OPS at the time of the advice, Im 
satisfied that the initial financial analysis document dated 16 August 1991 evidenced that Mr 
Bs employer at the time of the advice offered an OPS which he was eligible to join.
I agree with our investigator that it would be reasonable to expect the adviser to have 
discussed this OPS with Mr B. And to find out why he hadnt yet joined it. Wed expect the 
adviser to question why Mr B had made that decision, and who else might have influenced 
him to do that. Failing to do so wouldnt be acting in Mr Bs best interests, given that there 
was another product that would better meet his needs. But Ive not been given any 
documentary or testimonial evidence that such discussions took place. And Mr B said he 
was considering joining his employers OPS at the time. And wouldve done so if hed not 
been advised that hed be better off starting a personal pension.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr B shouldve been advised to join his employers OPS in August 
1991. I say this because Im of the view that the OPS wouldve offered lower charges than 
the personal pension policy, and because Mr B wouldve benefitted from his employers 
contributions to the OPS. I also say this because Im persuaded that the evidence shows 
that Mr B was eligible to join his employers OPS, and was actively considering doing so until 
he was advised otherwise. Therefore I dont consider that the advice to start a personal 
pension policy, rather than join the OPS, was suitable. 
I next considered whether any compensation for distress and inconvenience was suitable in 
this case.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr B told this service that until hed received CETVs for his OPSs in 2021, he hadnt realised 
just how much hed been mis-sold. He also felt that Sun Life had been slow to handle his 
complaint. And that it had failed to consider some parts of it. He felt Sun Life had treated him 
as unfairly as is possible. And that it had no intention of putting things right.As I noted earlier, Sun Life has acknowledged that it didnt address all of Mr Bs complaint in 
its February 2023 final response letter. And it is separately investigating his outstanding 
complaints. So I wont consider those here.
However, I agree with our investigator that Sun Life should pay Mr B £150 compensation for 
the loss of expectation he experienced when he compared the value of his personal pension 
policy in 2021 with the CETVs provided by his OPSs. I say this because it mustve been 
shocking to find out that his personal pensions mightve been mis-sold.
Putting things right
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for Sun Life to put Mr B, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he wouldve 
joined the occupational scheme. Sun Life should therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the pension review methodology for opt-out/non-joiners of money purchase 
schemes.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions where 
relevant at the date of my final decision. 
Sun Life may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P) so that 
it can better take into account any impact of joining the occupational scheme on Mr Bs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the calculation in line with this methodology demonstrates a loss, the compensation 
amount should if possible be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate 
in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Sun Life receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Sun 
Life to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sun Life deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Sun Life should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that gathering information regarding Mr Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement may mean 
that the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the above 90-day period  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada must pay the amount calculated as set out 
above.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of 
Canada should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman