DRN-4454502
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Allianz Insurance Plc has dealt with repairs following a 
subsidence claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C made a subsidence claim on her policy in 2017. After a period of monitoring and 
discussions about the work needed to put things right, work was due to start in early 2020 
but was put on hold due to covid-19 restrictions in place at the time.
Repair work started in December 2020 and was expected to take around four weeks. It was 
agreed that Mrs C and her husband would move out of their house into an annex while the 
work was done. They had been building the annex and Allianz agreed to pay £1,800 so they 
could complete the work and move into it.
In January 2021 Mrs C raised concerns about issues with the painting of the outside walls. 
The builders returned in February but there were delays due to bad weather and other 
issues. After further discussions and inspections the builders said the work had been 
completed in late April 2021 but Mrs C wasnt happy with the quality of the work. There 
followed correspondence about cracks in the walls and other issues.
In December 2021 Allianz said all the snagging issues were resolved but Mrs C disagreed. 
She said there were still problems with the work carried out. 
Throughout this time Mrs C and her husband stayed in the annex.
There was further correspondence and in March 2022 Mrs C lodged a complaint.
A loss adjuster appointed by Allianz arranged a site visit in May 2022, after which a report 
was prepared setting out their view of the issues and a list work to be carried out. Allianz 
issued a final response to Mrs Cs complaint saying it would put together a plan for the work 
to be done and offered compensation of £250 for the distress Mrs C had been caused.
Mrs C didnt accept the offer. She later referred the complaint to this Service, saying the offer 
didnt fully compensate her for all her losses. She said she was looking for:
all the outstanding work to be completed properly;
serious consideration given to replacing the doors and windows;
payment for all the time living in the annex; and
compensation for the cost of white goods which no longer worked.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that she was 
only looking at what had happened up to the date of the final response in May 2022, and if 
Mrs C was unhappy with what had happened after that date she would need to make a 
further complaint to Allianz. 
The investigator thought Allianz offer to put together a plan of work and pay compensation 
of £250 was a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Mrs C disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Allianz to 
pay compensation of £750. I set out my reasons as follows:
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed. Id expect the settlement to put the customer, as 
far as possible, back in the position they were in before the loss or damage. Where repairs 
are being done, that means carrying out an effective and lasting repair.
The policy provides cover for subsidence claims and theres no dispute about the claim 
being covered. The issue is how Allianz dealt with the repairs.
In this complaint, Im only considering what happened up to May 2022. I understand there 
have been further issues since then. If Mrs C refers a further complaint to this Service about 
whats happened since May 2022, we can consider that separately.
Looking at what happened between December 2020 and May 2022, Allianz didnt ensure the 
repairs were completed during that time. It has accepted that some of the repairs were of 
poor quality. And there was clearly some delay. The work was expected to take around four 
weeks but some 16 months later Mrs C was still in a position where work was needed to 
complete the repairs. Allianz had not by that point dealt with the claim in a reasonable time 
or provided an effective and lasting repair. Mrs C was not back in the position she should 
have been in.
Having said that, a site visit took place in May 2022 and in its response to this complaint 
Allianz said it would put together a plan for the outstanding work to be completed and made 
an offer of compensation. Although Mrs C was worried the schedule didnt include 
everything, Allianz asked the contractors to review her concerns and I think that was fair.
With regard to completing the work, I think that was a fair way to resolve things at that point. 
As Ive said, if Mrs C has further concerns about what has happened since, she can make a 
fresh complaint about that.
Ive thought carefully about the offer of compensation. Mrs C is seeking a more substantial 
payment. In particular, she says she should be compensated for having to stay in the annex 
throughout that time and for damage to white goods.
Mrs C says her dishwasher was damaged. From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think she 
has shown Allianz is responsible for that. And I dont think Allianz should replace or repair 
white goods. Mrs C says when she tried to use these appliances again they wouldnt work, 
due to having been left unused for that time. But Im satisfied Mrs C could have moved back 
into the property whilst waiting for the further work to be completed. The plan was for Mrs C 
to move into the annex while the work was carried out and then return to the house. Even if 
there were issues to be dealt with, they didnt leave the house uninhabitable; she could have 
moved back and then, if necessary, move out again for a short period while any further 
works are done.
Mrs C also says her dog dirtied her carpet and soft furnishings in the annex due to having 
some digestive problems. She wants Allianz to replace her carpet, but Allianz says it wasnt 
responsible for the damage and I agree.
Despite those points, I do think the compensation offer to Mrs C should be increased. She expected to be out of her house for around four weeks and then return to her home with all 
the work completed. That didnt happen and 16 months later she was in a position where 
work still needed to be done. Allianz wasnt responsible for all of the delay and did take steps 
to review the works, appointing loss adjusters to carry out further inspections and then 
agreeing to carry out further work. But even taking that into account I dont think it was 
reasonable that by May 2022 the work had not been completed. This was all distressing for 
Mrs C and she was put to considerable inconvenience during that time.
Taking all of this into account I consider the compensation should be increased to £750. I 
appreciate this doesnt cover all of the things Mrs C has asked to be compensated for but 
Ive explained why I dont think Allianz should cover all of those. In the circumstances I 
consider a payment of £750 to be fair.
Replies to the provisional decision
Allianz has replied confirming it accepts the provisional decision. 
Mrs C has also replied, saying she would like to comment that:
the work is still not complete  the second builders instructed to complete the work 
left site with things still unfinished; 
its now been 35 months and she hasnt been fully recompensed for everything;
she has made a further complaint to Allianz and is waiting for a response to that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mrs C has commented on the current position, that isnt something I can comment 
on as Im only able to consider what happened up to May 2022. I note that she has made a 
further complaint and any concerns about whats happened more recently can be looked at 
in that complaint. 
As far as this complaint is concerned, I havent been given any further information that would 
lead me to change my provisional decision. So it remains my view that a fair way to resolve 
this complaint is for Allianz to pay compensation of £750 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs C by the delays up to May 2022.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Allianz Insurance Plc to pay compensation to Mrs C of 
£750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman