DRN-2960423
The complaint
Mrs Js complaint is about the value of the settlement offered by Aviva Insurance Limited for 
a subsidence claim made under her home insurance policy.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents.
Mrs J is being represented in this complaint by Ms P, but as Mrs J is the policyholder, and 
for ease of reference throughout, Ill refer to her directly.
What happened
Mrs J submitted a claim for subsidence to Aviva in 2018. Aviva accepted the claim and 
appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the damage.
Following site investigations it was determined that the damage to the property was as a 
result of subsidence caused by clay shrinkage in the soil. And this was linked to the 
presence of tree roots and nearby vegetation. The loss adjusters records show that the 
implicated trees were removed, and the site was monitored for ground movement.
Aviva prepared a scope of works to settle the claim which eventually valued the repairs at 
around £44,000. It offered this to Mrs J, less the policy excess, to cash settle the claim.
Mrs J appointed her own engineer, who Ill refer to as C, and a surveyor who Ill refer to as 
M. Their reports concluded that the property required underpinning of the foundations and 
said the settlement figure being proposed by Aviva didnt take this into account.
Mrs J raised a complaint with Aviva, but it maintained its position to cash settle the claim. It 
reviewed Mrs Js reports and increased its cash settlement to around £48,000 to include the 
full VAT element of the repair works. Aviva also offered Mrs J £200 for the delays in 
providing a final settlement offer.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mrs J referred the complaint to our service. She wanted 
Aviva to pay for the works in line with the costs set out in Cs report, and for her own costs in 
obtaining the reports.
An investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that because Aviva wasnt offering to repair the property it should base the 
settlement on the reasonable costs to Mrs J. So they recommended Aviva settle the claim by 
paying Mrs Js report costs and meeting Cs estimate for the repairs.
Aviva disagreed. It said there were works required which didnt fall within the policy cover but 
needed to be done at the same time, and as such would impact the works which did. It said 
it was therefore within its right to offer a cash settlement for what it would cost it to do the 
works, as it wasnt liable for the uninsured works preventing its contractors from being able 
to repair the property.
The complaint was then passed to a second investigator for review. They concluded the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. They concluded that Aviva had shown the property had 
stabilised and therefore didnt need to carry out works to the foundations, such as 
underpinning, to deal with the claim fairly. They concluded Avivas offer of £200 
compensation for the delays was fair and reasonable.
Mrs J didnt agree. She says:
The original builders who assessed the property stated that the only cost-effective 
way to remedy the damage would be to demolish and rebuild the property.
That foundation stabilisation work is necessary to remedy the damage caused by 
subsidence.
The tree mitigation works havent fixed the damage already caused to the 
foundations.
That the £200 offered for distress and inconvenience is too low and doesnt reflect 
the impact the matter has had on her health.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Js concerns about the foundations of the property, and why she feels 
Avivas proposed repairs wont fix the damage caused by subsidence. But in order to uphold 
this complaint, Id need to see firm evidence that Avivas scope of works wouldnt provide an 
effective and lasting repair. Or that it has unfairly calculated the settlement against the terms 
set out in the policy.
As I see it, the main point of dispute here is whether repairs are required to the property 
foundations. When asked, Avivas current position on the claim is that the property has been 
shown to have stabilised following tree mitigation works (and a further period of monitoring), 
so it believes that only the superstructure repairs are necessary. And as Mrs J is of the 
opinion the foundations need repairing, it is choosing to cash settle the claim in line with the 
policy terms.
So Ive considered all of the expert reports provided by both parties to see if Avivas position 
is fair and reasonable, and in order to assess if Aviva has treated Mrs J fairly in the handling 
of this claim.
Avivas engineer states, We diagnosed the cause of the subsidence as clay shrinkage due 
to the water extraction of the vegetation that was situated within the boundaryThese trees 
have been removed and we have monitored the ground to confirm that it is stableyour 
insurers are only liable to cover the cost to repair the damage caused by the recent 
subsidence movement and not the previous historic distortions or foundation 
improvementthe monitoring has confirmed the property is stable and a such no foundation 
improvement is required.
This statement has been supported by the results of site investigations which consider such 
things as soil type, foundation depth and ground movement, all of which are in line with what 
I find reasonable for a claim of this type. And Im satisfied Aviva acted reasonably on the 
information provided by these results.So this means Aviva doesnt think further stabilisation works are needed, provided the 
property stabilised as expected. So in order for me to be persuaded the further investigations 
or repairs are necessary, I would need to see evidence to suggest why Avivas engineers 
position is incorrect.
Cs report states, there is significant evidence throughout the building of movement, which 
has originated in the [concrete] slab structure and this has translated into movement of the 
structures supported aboveIn order to remedy the foundation movement, we would advise 
that a piled raft form of construction be adopted at the property to introduce a support 
structure that obtains a bearing from piled foundations drilled into the underlying subsoils.
Cs report doesnt go into detail about the cause of subsidence. And whilst I dont doubt that 
the remedy it has proposed will strengthen the foundations, I am more persuaded that Aviva 
has shown the identified cause of the movement (the trees and vegetation) has been 
removed, and that further monitoring has shown no further movement. So this doesnt 
suggest that foundation stabilisation works are necessary to remedy the damage caused by 
subsidence.
Ive considered Mrs Js comments that the original builders said a demolish and rebuild was 
the only cost-effective way to remedy the damage. But the reports Ive seen refer to piled 
foundation works only. Ive seen no updated evidence or reports to support why a demolish 
and rebuild is required here.
Ultimately Aviva has provided assurances and evidence to show that the movement to the 
property has stabilised. It has costed the repairs required and shown that these would 
achieve a repair to the damage caused by the subsidence, which is what it is required to do 
under the policy. And whilst C and Ms reports have recommended underpinning, Aviva isnt 
required to do this as its shown why these are currently uninsured works. So Im not going 
to require it to do anything further here.
And for the same reasons, given that M and Cs reports havent contributed to a change in 
Avivas position or proposed settlement, I wont be requiring Aviva to reimburse these report 
costs to Mrs J.
Ive considered the matter of compensation for the delays caused with Aviva preparing its 
final offer and the additional time this would have added to the claim. I agree that this 
wouldve been frustrating for Mrs J, and I acknowledge her comments about the impact this 
matter has had on her health. 
But in order to award additional compensation here, Id need to be satisfied that any delays 
caused by Aviva significantly worsened the issues being caused by the subsidence event for 
which it has already offered terms of settlement. And given the latest position shows the 
property has stabilised, Im not persuaded that it did so. Aviva has already made an offer to 
pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
I note that Aviva has confirmed to our investigator that should the property move again and 
not be shown to be stable, apart from the tolerances applied to seasonal movement, then it 
would consider further mitigation works in order to settle the claim and ensure an effective 
and lasting repair. I find its position reasonable in the circumstances.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman