DRN-4330890
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained Santander UK plc wont refund an online payment they didnt 
make.
What happened
Mr S complained to Santander about a payment of £2,980 that was made from his and his 
wifes joint account on 30 November 2022. He confirmed this couldnt have been him as he 
was abroad at the time.
Santander believed the factual evidence showed this transaction was made from Mr Ss 
mobile device. Mr S hadnt reported being a victim of a scam, so they believed this payment 
had been authorised.
Mr S brought their complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but felt this showed Mr S authorised the payment. 
Mr S still disagreed and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr and Mrs Ss case other than those factors I mention below.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Mr S have told us.
I believe the evidence shows Mr S authorised the online transaction. I say this because:
This shows the IP address used, when the payment was made, matches the IP 
address being used over the preceding week. This roughly matches the location Mr S 
has told us he was in whilst overseas.
A new payee was set up in Mr Ss own name to a different account. Although there 
was no match with name and account number, the individual making the payment 
confirmed they wished to proceed and confirmed theyd seen the fraud warning sent 
by Santander that they were making a payment to their own account.
The data confirms the payment was authenticated by touch.
Mr S hasnt told us his mobile was used by a third party.
Mr S has told us he received an email from a third-party organisation saying he was 
due a refund just before this payment was made. But Ive not seen this.
Like Santander, I did wonder whether this had the hallmarks of a scam. But Ive contacted 
Mr S and asked him further questions to check whether there was anything else happening 
around this time or if there was further evidence he wished to provide. I received nothing 
further.
I am always wary of believing the customer must have made the transaction in the absence 
of any other explanation, but in this case Ive been presented with no reason why this didnt 
happen.
Overall I believe the evidence points to Mr S making and authorising this payment himself. 
Whether he then regretted making this payment, I dont know. However I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman