DRN-4083187
The complaint
Mr U complains that the car he acquired financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasn't of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr U acquired a used car finance through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The car was just over two years old and had been driven approximately 
12,500 miles. Shortly after Mr U acquired the car he experienced swaying or wobbling when 
travelling at speed. He complained to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection of the vehicle which concluded that there 
was no evidence of a fault present or developing at the point of sale. 
Mr U raised a complaint again with MotoNovo in August 2022. He wasn't satisfied the 
inspection that had been carried out previously was done correctly. He said the car wasn't 
tested at high speed. MotoNovo reinvestigated the complaint but concluded that there was 
still no evidence the fault was present or developing at the point of sale. In its final response 
MotoNovo said that should Mr U provide a report that stated the vehicle was sold not fit for 
purpose it would look to reimburse costs of up to £250. Mr U wasn't satisfied and brought his 
complaint to this service.
The investigator concluded that while it's likely there is a fault with the car they thought the 
problem appeared to be due to a reasonable level of wear and tear. Mr U didn't agree and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He provided further commentary and copies 
of invoices for work done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr U but having done so I won't be asking 
MotoNovo to do anything further, for the reasons I've outlined below.
Mr Us agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is able 
to consider complaints against it. As the supplier of the car MotoNovo is responsible 
for the quality of the car and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies terms into 
the agreement requiring the car to be of satisfactory quality.
Exactly what is satisfactory quality will depend on the specific circumstances. In this 
instance the complaint relates to a car and when considering whether the car is of 
satisfactory quality the cars age and mileage at the time it was supplied are key 
considerations. MotoNovo was required to ensure the car was of satisfactory quality 
at the time it was supplied but it wouldn't be responsible for any wear and tear items 
that develop over time and might reasonably be expected on a used car. Mr U's car 
was just over two years old and had travelled almost 12,500 miles. So it would be 
reasonable to expect some wear and tear in its mechanical components.
I'm satisfied from the testimony presented by Mr U that there was a fault with the car 
relating to it wobbling when driven at high speed. Mr U first reported a problem in 
January 2020 shortly after he acquired the car. 
I've seen a copy of the independent inspection report commissioned by MotoNovo 
dated in March 2020. It says:
"we commenced a road test of the vehicle and can confirm that at lower speeds no 
fault could be identified. The vehicle performed and handled well. At speeds upwards 
of 30 mph a slight wallow from the vehicle is apparent. This becomes more 
pronounced as speed is increased. This does appear to be most pronounced at the 
nearside of the vehicle and is likely due to the foreign object embedded within the 
nearside rear tyre."
The report went on to say 
"taking into consideration the time and mileage elapsed since finance inception, on 
the balance of probability, the concerns raised by the hirer lodged in the nearside 
rear tyre."
Mr U said he had the tyre changed but this didnt resolve the issue. In October 2021 
he raised the complaint again with MotoNovo that the car was still wobbling at high 
speed. MotoNovo questioned why Mr U was calling about the issue so long after the 
final response letter was issued.  Im not disputing there was a problem with the 
vehicle but its not clear to me also why this was the case. And I can see from MOT 
records that between December 2019 and September 2021 Mr U was able to drive 
over 17,000 miles. 
Mr U took the vehicle for repair to an independent garage in December 2021. On the 
invoices Mr U has provided it says:
13 December  diagnosed one suspension arm OS, ordered new arm and bush
17 December  car wobbles all over the place even after replacing the spindle rod. 
Wobbles mainly on overrun at higher speed not on acceleration. All above 40 mph 
but worse the faster you go. Further investigation eventually discovered that the OS 
R suspension had slight play under pressure, ordered up parts and fitted.
Road tested again at 70 mph vast improvement.
The garage provided a letter, dated 31 March 2023, to Mr U, supplied during the 
investigation of the complaint by this service. The letter says:
we can confirm that our master technician found that the spindle rod (suspension 
arm) wear that needed to be replaced to cure the dangerous wobble, must have 
been worn over a considerable amount of time and is something that had not recently 
happened. It must have been a pre-existing issue.
It went on to say Its not possible that this wobble could have been attributed to a 
nail in the tyre. All the tyres were in good condition when you brought the car into our 
workshopon 12 December 2021
It does seem from the invoices that the car was eventually fixed. But I note in the 
letter dated in March 2023 it says the wobble was attributed to the arm/spindle rod. 
But the invoices suggest that this was not the cause of the wobble and that the 
suspension was the root of the problem. So while Im persuaded that there was a fault with the car its not clear to me what 
the actual cause was  either the suspension or the spindle rod, though likely the 
former. And while Im reassured that the problem was eventually fixed even if the 
problem was developing at the point of sale it could still be because of normal wear 
and tear. 
In the letter the garage says this must have been a pre-existing issue. Im not 
doubting the garages testimony, but it hasnt confirmed that the issue was present or 
likely present when Mr U acquired the vehicle and Im not sure it would be able to do 
so given the time that has elapsed. 
Mr U then waited approximately nine months before asking MotoNovo to reopen the 
complaint. Mr U has said he had other complaints with MotoNovo going on and 
several personal difficulties at the time, which he explained had caused him stress. 
Im very sorry to hear this. And I realise this isnt the outcome Mr U would like but 
while I think it likely there was a fault with the car shortly after Mr U acquired it Im not 
persuaded there is enough evidence for me to safely say it was present or 
developing at the point of sale, or if it was, that it was more than normal wear and 
tear. So I wont be asking MotoNovo to do anything further.
Mr U said in his complaint to this service that he noticed a constant water leakage 
into the boot of the car. As this is a new fault Mr U would need to raise this with 
MotoNovo first in order that it can investigate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman