DRN-3057464
The complaint
Mr R complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk was 
irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr R was provided with a £400 loan by MoneyBoat in January 2021. The loan was 
repayable over four monthly instalments. Mr R says that adequate checks werent carried 
out before the loan was provided and had these happened, MoneyBoat would have realised 
the loan wasnt affordable for him. He says he had several other debts outstanding at the 
time of the loan and was desperate for money to pay off other debts.
MoneyBoat issued a final response to Mr Rs complaint in March 2021. It said that before a 
loan is provided it carries out a credit and affordability check. It noted that its customers may 
have adverse information on their credit file, and this didnt necessarily mean a loan wouldnt 
be provided. It said that Mr R recorded a monthly income of £2,500 and after expenses had 
a monthly disposable income of just under £1,000. It says it verified Mr Rs employment and 
income and increased the expenses used in the assessment. It didnt accept that the loan 
repayments were unaffordable and didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R didnt accept MoneyBoats final response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think there was anything in the 
information provided that meant further verification was required.
Mr R didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that companies shouldnt be lending to 
people in financial difficulties with very low credit scores.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
MoneyBoat provided Mr R with only one loan so less thorough checks could have 
been proportionate. However, it was reasonable to expect that the information 
received through the checks would be considered fully.
Mr R declared a monthly income of £2,500 and monthly expenses of £770, including 
credit commitments of £100. The results from Mr Rs credit check, showed that his 
credit commitments were much higher than this and MoneyBoat increased Mr Rs 
expenses because of this. I thought this was reasonable.
The credit check reported some adverse information. I noted the comment 
MoneyBoat made about customers having adverse information on their credit file and 
this not necessarily meaning a loan wouldnt be provided. I agreed this could be the 
case, but also noted that issues reported shortly before a loan application could raise 
concerns. 
Mr R had historic defaults recorded on his credit file which I accepted wouldnt 
exclude a loan being provided in 2021. However, he also had three delinquent 
accounts noted in the previous 12 months, two reported in January 2021, the same 
month the loan application was made. I thought this should have raised concerns 
about how Mr R was managing his money and that further lending may not be 
sustainable for him. He also had other accounts which his payment profile suggested 
he wasnt making regular payments towards. I thought this, along with the delinquent 
accounts, suggested Mr R was struggling to make payments towards his other debts 
at the time this loan was provided. Therefore, I didnt think this loan should have 
been considered sustainably affordable.
Based on the above I upheld Mr Rs complaint.
No further evidence was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and as no further information was provided in response to my provisional decision, 
my conclusions havent changed. I accept the checks carried out could have been 
considered proportionate. However, I think that the information received through the credit 
check should have alerted MoneyBoat to Mr Rs situation and that he was experiencing 
issues managing his money. Therefore, I do not think that this loan should have been 
considered sustainably affordable for Mr R and therefore not provided.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr R.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done that, the 
information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or ought to 
have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to now 
accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly 
conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to 
lend to Mr R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I am upholding this complaint, and I understand the loan is still outstanding, MoneyBoat 
should:
waive all interest and charges on the loan so that Mr R is only required to repay the 
capital amount borrowed. Any payments Mr R has made should be treated as though 
they were payments towards this capital amount. It there is still an outstanding 
balance then MoneyBoat should work with Mr R to agree an affordable repayment 
plan; and
remove any adverse information regarding this loan from Mr Rs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman