DRN-3863479
The complaint
Mr N complains about delays Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited caused 
while dealing with the transfer of his stocks and shares ISA, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr N held stocks and shares ISA with a provider who Ill refer to as Company B. In 
September 2021, he requested an ISA transfer from Company B to Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited. 
Company B confirmed a cheque for cleared funds was sent to Hargreaves within two weeks 
and the cheque had been cashed. He says when he attempted to purchase 37 shares in 
Tesla, this purchase attempt failed due to insufficient funds - despite Hargreaves having 
cashed his payment.
When he raised his concerns with Hargreaves, they said they hadnt received his funds. He 
says this followed weeks of chasing both Hargreaves and Company B about his missing 
funds. On 13 October 2021, Hargreaves confirmed that the funds had been allocated to his 
account and the transfer had been completed. 
Mr N made a formal complaint to Hargreaves, he says the delay in completing the transfer 
meant he lost the opportunity to purchase shares in Tesla and was left out of pocket as a 
result.  To put things right, he would like to be paid the amount he would have made if hed 
been able to purchase on the day he initially tried. In addition, he would also like 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a result of Hargreaves 
errors and weeks of chasing both businesses to locate his missing funds.
Hargreaves responded to Mr Ns complaint saying they were not responsible for the error in 
allocating the payments Company B had sent them. They say Company B had quoted the 
name and reference number of another client who was also transferring funds to them and 
so the funds were allocated to that account. They did accept the fifteen days it took them to 
reconcile the funds was longer than it should have been and paid Mr N £100 in recognition 
of this. He felt this didnt adequately resolve his complaint as he had lost out financially 
because of the delay, so he asked us to consider this. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint and said she didnt think the error in 
allocation of the payment was because of anything Hargreaves had done. The investigator 
said Hargreaves had communicated with Mr N throughout the period they were investigating 
but as no financial loss had been incurred because of Hargreaves, the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. She also acknowledged that theyd had made a £100 gesture of good will 
payment into Mr Ns trading account.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I considered whether any regulatory requirements exist in relation to how businesses 
allocate payments. We dont tell a business how it should operate and that is a matter for the 
regulator the Financial Conduct Authority to consider. At the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
our role is to consider complaints brought to us, and based on the evidence provided, 
establish whether the business complained of have been fair and reasonable in their actions. 
Our role is not to punish a business, but to resolve the dispute with a view to putting a 
consumer back in the position theyd have been in if the error had not happened. 
HM Revenue and Customs guidelines say, a stocks and shares ISA transfer should be 
completed withing 30 days. The initial transfer request was made on 2 September 2021 and 
the transfer wasnt completed until 13 October 2021, so, I have looked at more detail around 
what happened in this period.
Hargreaves confirmed they received a payment cheque from Company B on 15 September 
2021. The allocation of payment is based on the information provided by the sender. Here, 
Company B had written the name and customer reference number on the cheque. The 
cheque is then processed, and payment allocated to that account based on this. Hargreaves 
have demonstrated that the name and customer reference number on the cheque 
Company B provided was not Mr Ns. Company B had in error used the details of another 
client who was also making a transfer to Hargreaves. 
For me to establish that Hargreaves are responsible for any losses Mr N has suffered, I need 
to find that they have done something wrong or failed to do something which caused the 
error in allocation of payments and therefore the losses he claims. Hargreaves followed their 
usual process to allocate the payment by using the information provided by Company B. The 
information they used was input correctly and the payment allocated to the account details 
provided. Having reviewed all the evidence, Hargreaves had done what they were supposed 
to do, and Ive been unable to establish that the error in allocating the payment was a result 
of anything Hargreaves did.
In terms of the delays, it took Hargreaves fifteen days to trace the funds and re-allocate 
these to his account. Looking at whats happened, Mr N has spent considerable time going 
back and forth between both companies trying to establish where his money had gone. 
Whilst I recognise his strength of feeling in this situation, I dont think fifteen days to correct 
this error was unreasonable, particularly as I can see he was in regular communication with 
them during this period. Hargreaves say they would like to have corrected the error quicker, 
so they made a £100 gesture of good will and paid this to Mr Ns trading account on 6 
December 2021. 
I appreciate the whole experience would have been particularly stressful for him so I know 
he will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant fairly say that Hargreaves should be held 
responsible for the error in allocation or that they should do more as Mr N hasnt suffered 
any financial loss as a result of their actions.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman