DRN-3170836
The complaint
Ms O has complained about a loan granted to her by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, (ELL). She said that the loan was unaffordable for her and ELL was 
wrong to have agreed to it. Ms O is also unhappy that ELL didnt record her loan repayments 
on her credit file.
  
What happened
ELL agreed a loan for Ms O in August 2017. The loan was for £5,000 and was repayable by 
60 monthly payments of £260.51. The interest rate on the loan was 60.9%, (81.1% APR). If 
Ms O made each repayment when it was due, she would pay £15,630.60 in total.
Ms O said, in summary, that ELL had lent to her irresponsibly. She also said that the lender 
didnt record certain information she provided about her financial situation accurately. Ms O 
said that her situation wasnt investigated thoroughly enough at the time of borrowing, and 
mentioned a reliance on temporary credit facilities, and failing mental health. Ms O also 
complained about the lack of data on her credit file from this loan. She had made her 
payments on time for 21 months continuously, yet her credit file showed 'no data available'. 
ELL said in its final response letter that during the loan sale its checks included: 
- Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from a customers primary 
bank account 
- Obtaining and reviewing one months payslip 
- Conducting a credit search with a credit reference agency 
- Carrying out a job check 
As part of its underwriting, ELL said it used 35% of a customers net income to calculate an 
approximate personal expenditure. Ms Os monthly financial commitments together with her 
general living expenses were calculated as £845.98. ELLs affordability calculation at the 
time showed Ms O had a monthly disposable income of £583.52. It believed the checks 
completed were reasonable and proportionate and that the loan was sustainable over the 
term as Ms O had a disposable income. ELL believed Ms O would have been able to make 
the repayments to her loan without undue difficulty over the life of the credit agreement. 
ELL didnt respond to the second aspect of Ms Os complaint in its final response letter.
Our investigators view
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that ELL 
acted fairly in providing Ms O with the loan because the loan appeared to be affordable to 
Ms O with monies left over each month. In addition to this, she couldnt say that ELL saw 
anything on the credit search that it completed that should have given it cause for concern or 
deterred it from lending to Ms O.
The investigator had also reviewed the additional points that Ms O had raised as part of her 
complaint and based on the information provided, she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest 
ELL acted unfairly towards Ms O in any other way.
Ms O responded to say that she wasnt happy with the investigators view and wanted her 
complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. 
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms O 
and to ELL on 30 September 2021. I summarise my findings:
I said that I was sorry to hear that Ms O had suffered health difficulties. 
As there were two aspects to Ms Os complaint, Id dealt with each under separate headings.
Irresponsible lending
I noted that when ELL lent to Ms O, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Ms O could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Ms O undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Ms O. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Os case, Id considered the 
following questions: 
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Os loan   
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
- did ELL make a fair lending decision? 
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks? 
ELL did a number of checks before it lent to Ms O. It also spoke to Ms O and discussed her 
application. Id listened to a recording of that call. I could see that it had asked Ms O for 
details of her employment, monthly income and rent and it had asked her to come into its 
office and provide a payslip and a calendar months bank statements. 
Ms O said her monthly income was £1,700. ELL estimated Ms Os other living expenses as 
set out above, and it carried out credit checks and used the results of those checks to 
calculate Ms Os credit commitments. ELL was also aware that Ms O lived in her employers 
accommodation, although £400 was deducted from Ms Os gross pay each month for the 
accommodation. She had told ELL the loan was to be used for debt consolidation, although 
her debts related to benefit overpayment and council tax rather than those shown in her 
credit file.
Id noted ELLs credit checks before the loan. I could see that Ms O had taken out two home 
lending loans totalling around £960 in the five months before her loan application, with the 
most recent loan (with a £560 balance) only a month before the loan application. I thought 
ELL might have been concerned about Ms Os recent need for credit which appeared to be 
inconsistent with the monthly disposable income of £583 it had calculated. 
I could also see that ELL had calculated that Ms Os monthly credit commitments were 
£254.54 based on its credit checks. But Id also noted that ELL had seen Ms Os current 
account statements for the two months prior to the loan application. It appeared to have 
gone through these in some detail making notes on the statements about some of the 
transactions. I could see on the bank statements that Ms O was making credit card/revolving 
credit repayments of around £478 in the month before the loan application which was 
substantially higher than the amount ELL had included in its calculation of Ms Os credit 
commitments.
I could also see on the bank statements that Ms O had other credit which hadnt appeared 
on her credit check. I could see that shed borrowed a total of around £300 in the month 
before her loan application from a high cost credit lender. As ELL was likely to have seen 
this credit on the bank statements, I thought it ought to have included this within its 
calculation of Ms Os credit commitments. So, ELLs calculation of Ms Os actual credit 
commitments appeared inaccurate without this. 
I could also see on the bank statements that there were numerous transfers to another 
account held by Ms O. I asked the investigator to ask Ms O for bank statements for this 
account which she provided. I could see that this account was not just used for transfers but 
there was also spending on living costs from that account too. But I couldnt see that ELL 
had asked for copies of these statements. I thought they would have given a more complete 
picture of Ms Os financial situation.Id reviewed Ms Os spending for July 2017 on the bank statements that ELL saw. Taking all 
her existing (and ongoing) financial commitments and reasonably identifiable spend on 
council tax, food and household, medical, phone, TV/internet package, travel and some 
clothing didnt leave her with sufficient disposable income to repay ELLs loan and for her to 
have enough money to meet any unexpected costs. Overall, I thought it was clear from the 
bank statements ELL had seen that Ms Os financial commitments and regular living costs 
were higher than the amount ELL had calculated. 
Id also noted that ELL saw Ms Os payslip for July 2017. This showed a monthly salary of 
around £1,314 and holiday pay of around £769. Id asked the investigator to ask Ms O 
whether the holiday pay was in effect part of her regular main salary and intended to be paid 
to her every month, or whether it was only paid for part of the year? Ms O said that the 
holiday salary was a part of the main salary but not paid every month, just at times when she
had taken holiday. So, it appeared that ELL had not considered the holiday pay element of 
the payslip and it appeared that Ms Os regular monthly salary was likely to be several 
hundred pounds less than the amount used by ELL in its calculations.
ELL had calculated a disposable income of around £583. I was concerned that ELL seemed 
to have accepted at face value that Ms O had a monthly disposable income of some £583 a 
month when the pattern of spending on her bank statements showed that she was having 
difficulty managing her money. In the ten days before Ms O received her June salary, she 
had less than £2 in her account. I could see that Ms O received her June salary on              
30 June 2017, but five days later she had less than £2 on her account and needed to borrow 
more credit. After Ms O received her July salary, she had less than £26 in her account ten 
days later and needed to borrow again. 
Overall, I didnt think ELL had properly scrutinised the information it did see to ensure that  
Ms O would have enough funds to be able to sustainably make the payments over 60 
months.
As Ms O was borrowing a significant amount of credit just to fund her existing expenditure 
and credit commitments, I thought there was a very real prospect that she would need to 
borrow again in order to repay ELLs loan and that would likely have a significant adverse 
effect on her financial situation.
Altogether, I didnt think ELLs checks went far enough given Ms Os circumstances. It didnt 
seem to have used the bank statements it had to verify its estimate of her monthly 
disposable income. And, had ELL considered fully the information it had received and 
enquired further into Ms Os financial situation, I thought it would have learned that the loan 
wasnt likely to have been affordable for her and so I considered it was irresponsible to have 
agreed it. 
So, subject to any further representations by Ms O or ELL, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this aspect of Ms Os complaint and say that ELL should put things right 
as follows: 
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Ms O back into the position 
she would have been had the loan not been agreed for her, ELL needs to ensure that Ms O 
only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Ms O shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount of £5,000 she borrowed. So, ELL needs to:
a) treat all payments that Ms O has made towards the loan as payments towards theprincipal amount borrowed;
b) if Ms O has made payments above the capital amount of £5,000, then these should be 
refunded to her, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if after applying the refunds, there is still an outstanding capital balance then ELL needs to 
treat Ms O fairly and sympathetically in this matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan with her; and
d) remove any adverse information about the loan from Ms Os credit file.
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If ELL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps a) to d) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must
give Ms O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Ms Os credit file record
Ms O complained that ELL had not sent data to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) for at
least 20 consecutive months, leaving a gaping hole on her credit file which had affected her 
ability to pass credit checks for housing, leading her into further debt as she had lost money 
during application processes and having to find alternative, more expensive accommodation. 
She also had to use higher interest rate credit facilities to purchase a car, because her credit 
score didnt meet the requirements for a more preferable rate agreement. Ms O also said 
that shed been unable to qualify for a bank overdraft facility and some insurers had been 
unwilling to insure her due to the poor credit score. She was aware there were other factors 
at play, but none of these had such a detrimental effect as 'no data recorded' on her credit 
file. Ms O is seeking compensation for the losses shed said she suffered because of this.
I noted that ELL hadnt dealt with this aspect of Ms Os complaint in its final response letter. 
So, Id asked the investigator to ask ELL if Ms O had raised this aspect of her complaint with 
it. ELL responded to say that Ms O did refer to her credit record in her complaint and 
apologised that this point hadnt been addressed. ELLs credit records department provided 
this Service with a list of Ms Os payments as noted on her credit records. ELL said that    
Ms Os account was reporting correctly as under arrangement with two CRAs since the 
reduction in payment in June 2018.
I noted that Ms O had said that her credit checks showed that no data had been recorded for 
ELLs loan. Id not seen a copy of Ms Os full credit report so I hadnt seen the entries about 
ELLs loan which Ms O had referred to nor all the other entries which might have affected 
any decision to provide Ms O with credit. Ms O had provided this Service with a copy of her 
current credit report. But this was brief and just showed ELLs loan as currently open with the 
loan balance. And this brief record was similar for the other credit entries. 
I was aware that not all lenders reported to the same CRAs. So, it was possible that Ms Os 
previous credit checks were with a CRA which wasnt one of the two CRAs to which ELL had 
reported. And as Ms O had noted, there were other factors at play which could have caused 
a loan application to be rejected. There might have been other entries on Ms Os credit file 
which could have affected her credit, housing and insurance applications.
Where information was conflicting or incomplete, I needed to make a decision on the 
balance of probabilities which was what I did here. So, looking at everything in the round, on 
balance, I wasnt persuaded that ELL had acted inappropriately with regard to this aspect of Ms Os complaint. So, subject to any further representations by Ms O or ELL, my provisional 
decision was that I didnt intend to uphold this aspect of Ms Os complaint.
Ms O responded to my provisional decision to say that she was happy to accept my 
provisional decision.
ELL hasnt provided this Service with a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Ms O and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint in part and require ELL to pay Ms O some compensation and take the steps set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to pay Ms O some 
compensation and take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things right  
what ELL needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman