DRN-2880048
The complaint
Mr K complains that the loan he had from Loans 2 Go Limited was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr K took out a fixed sum loan with Loans 2 Go on 23 June 2020. He borrowed £500 and 
was due to make monthly repayments of £114.28 for 18 months, finishing on 23 December 
2021.
Mr K says that he doesnt believe Loans 2 Go carried out proper affordability checks before it 
approved his loan. He says he had to take additional borrowing to make the repayments and 
he doesnt know how Loans 2 Go calculated his income and expenditure. Mr K says his 
credit file showed significant other borrowing and Loans 2 Go never asked for bank 
statements. He adds that a responsible lender should have verified the information hed 
declared and that he was experiencing difficult family circumstances at the time and is 
suffering from depression.
Loans 2 Go says it verified Mr Ks declared income and reviewed his credit file.  It says that 
although it adjusted his declared income downwards, and his expenditure figures upwards, 
its calculations showed the loan repayments to be affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said that he wasnt 
satisfied Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks. He said, had it done so, its likely 
to have found Mr K was supplementing his income with ongoing borrowing and wasnt in a 
position to sustainably repay a further loan.
He recommended that Loans 2 Go should deduct any payments Mr K has made from the 
principal, with no interest added. It should then attempt to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for the balance. He said it should also ensure that any associated negative information is 
removed from Mr Ks credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that Mr Ks credit report showed that his active 
borrowings were up to date. Whilst it accepted there was some adverse information on the 
file it said this would normally be expected given the type of credit it provided. It says the 
credit report evidenced that Mr K was managing his finances and, therefore, it did not 
request bank statements or additional checks. It added that it used the higher Office of 
National Statistics figure to estimate Mr Ks expenditure and this still showed the loan was 
affordable to him.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr K. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ks case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ks loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about Mr Ks financial circumstances, 
checked his credit file and verified his income. But Im not satisfied that these checks went 
far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 18 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Loans 2 Gos analysis showed clear discrepancies between its checks and Mr Ks 
declared income and credit expenditure;
Based on Loan 2 Gos calculations, Mr K would have been left with around £160 per 
month for unforeseen expenses;
The credit check showed:
oMr K had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) on his file from July 2016;
oOne defaulted account from 2017;
oMortgage payments totalling £529;
oMr K had taken out a £500 short-term loan the previous month with monthly 
repayments of £159;
oHe was paying a further £31 per month towards a telecoms loan.
I acknowledge what Loans 2 Go said about the adverse information on Mr Ks credit file, but 
I consider its checks should have gone further because:
Loans 2 Go used an estimate based on national averages for Mr Ks other 
expenditure and, given the limited disposable income this left him with, I find it should 
have verified those figures;
Mr K had clearly under-declared his expenditure;
Mr K had taken out a short-term loan for the same amount the month before.
For the above reasons, I consider Loans 2 Gos checks should have included a full review of 
Mr Ks financial circumstances, including further verification of his income and expenditure.
So, Ive had a look at Mr Ks bank statements to see what they showed as a reasonable 
proxy for what Loans 2 Go might have found out had it looked into Mr Ks finances in more 
depth:
Mr Ks income was £1,552, as compared with the £1,600 hed declared, but I 
acknowledge Loans 2 Go had already adjusted this figure down to £1,416;Mr K appeared to make his mortgage payments from a separate account to which he 
transferred £600 each month;
There was a regular payment of £650 each month, which seemed to be rent, and was 
offset by a £310 credit each month;
Mr K was paying £246 per month towards another loan;
Hed actually taken out two short-term loans in May for a total of £1,730, with a combined 
monthly repayment of £433;
He was spending around £170 per month on television, internet and phones;
Car costs, including tax, insurance and petrol, came to around £150;
The monthly spend on food was about £100;
His overdraft was increasing and Mr K was only in credit for a few days after being paid.
In summary, Mr Ks bank statements showed his expenditure significantly exceeded his 
income and a further loan was unaffordable. Indeed, I note that Mr K has only made the first 
payment towards the loan.
So Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown it was irresponsible 
to lend to Mr K and Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr K. 
Remove negative information about the loan from Mr Ks credit file up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman