DRN-4058734
The complaint
Miss B complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted her a hire 
purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2019 Miss B acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Advantage. Miss B was required to make 53 monthly repayments of £195.08, with a final 
optional payment of £395.08 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £10,734.32. Miss B fell into arrears with her 
payments which, in May 2022, led to her later agreeing a higher monthly payment. 
Miss B says that Advantage didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Advantage didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included checking her credit history. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Advantage didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss B didnt agree and said Advantage should never have granted her the finance given her 
credit history. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
From the information Ive seen, Advantage didnt verify Miss Bs income before approving 
the finance. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of 
the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for Advantage to have done so to 
ensure it was affordable. I say this especially given that Miss B was borrowing a relatively 
large sum payable over a substantial period of time. She also had a recent history of 
defaulting on credit, having done so on seven separate accounts in the previous 12 months. 
It also doesnt appear that Advantage took steps to find out more about Miss Bs regular 
expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what her daily  
living expenses were. Without knowing more about Miss Bs regular committed expenditure 
at the time, Advantage wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Miss B would have told Advantage had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Advantage needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss Bs 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. I broadly agree with 
our adjudicator that these show that Miss Bs regular committed monthly expenditure at the 
time was around £1,100. In calculating this figure, Ive included her existing debt 
commitments plus other non-discretionary living costs such as council tax payments, TV 
licence, mobile phone and insurance costs. Ive also seen what Miss B was spending on 
food and travel costs. Given that at the time Miss B was earning a net monthly salary of 
around £1,500 per month, the agreement looks likely to have been affordable to Miss B. Im 
therefore not persuaded that Advantage acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Miss B recently told our adjudicator that she had been turned down when she made a 
previous finance application to Advantage only a month before. She hasnt given us details 
about the application. In any event, given that we usually focus on the decision made about 
the lending that was actually granted, and I dont think Advantage has acted unfairly, its not 
something I need to take into consideration.  
Miss B has told us about the difficult personal situation she was in when she took out the 
finance. I am very sorry to learn of this. But unfortunately it isnt something that I would 
necessarily have expected Advantage to be aware of before granting her the credit. 
So, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint Miss B on this occasion, I dont think Advantage 
acted unfairly in granting her the credit agreement. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman