DRN-2764788
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly declined part of her claim on 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is quite straightforward and known to both parties, so Ive 
only summarised events.
Mrs W took out insurance with Allianz for her cat commencing in August 2018. The 
policy was renewed in 2019.
In March 2020 Mrs Ws vets contacted Allianz advising theyd submitted a claim for 
dental treatment on her cat for treatment carried out in June and July 2019. Allianz 
couldnt trace the claim and the vets submitted a new claim form.
Allianz says it assessed the claim and placed a number of exclusions on the policy, 
including an exclusion for mouth and oral disorders from inception of the policy. It 
says it did this as the clinical history noted the cat had gingivitis from January 2018, 
prior to inception of the policy.
The invoice submitted by Mrs Ws vets totalled £444.19 and of this £306.79 related to 
dental treatment. Allianz said it informed the vets it would pay half of the claim 
relating to dental treatment saying this work related to 2 conditions. The first being 
gingivitis which it says was pre-existing and therefore excluded. The other condition, 
commonly knowns as FORLs was covered. And after the £70 excess was deducted 
paid £83.40.
In October 2020 Mr W asked that the claim be looked at again and Allianz confirmed 
their position was unchanged. Mrs W was unhappy with this and a complaint was 
raised. She maintains she complied with the policy terms and conditions which 
required her to have an annual dental examination on her cat.
Allianz provided their final response and said that Mrs W needed to meet the other 
terms and conditions of the policy. It said that the policy does not cover pre-existing 
conditions, and this is stated in the policy terms and conditions sent out an inception 
and renewal.
Our investigator felt it was fair for Allianz to rely on the exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions as there was evidence that Mrs Ws cat had gingivitis before the policy 
was taken out. Our investigator said Allianz had also provided evidence that had it 
known about the clinical history of gingivitis it wouldve added the exclusion for mouth 
and oral disorders from inception.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and broadly for the same reasons, so Im 
not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy defines pre-existing conditions as Any injury or illness that happened or 
first showed clinical signs before a) your pets cover started or b) the section was 
added to your insurance. Im satisfied this is clear.
Within the application process Mrs W was asked Has (cat) shown any sign of illness 
or injury or been unwell either now or in the past? This is regardless of whether or not 
(cat) was seen by a vet for the problem. And Has (cat) been seen by a vet for any 
reason?. Mrs W answered no to these questions and no additional exclusions were 
placed on the policy.
The cats clinical notes show gingivitis was mentioned on 3 occasions in 2018 prior to 
the policy being taken out. I find it reasonable Mrs W shouldve disclosed this 
information to Allianz when she applied for pet insurance. And had this been 
disclosed Im satisfied Allianz wouldve considered it to be a pre-existing condition 
and applied an exclusion for claims in relation to mouth and oral disorders in line with 
its underwriting guidelines.
Ive taken on board Mrs Ms comments about having ensured annual dental checks 
were carried out  but this doesnt change my mind. If these checks had not been 
carried out its possible Allianz wouldve declined the claim in its entirety rather than 
deciding to pay a portion relating to FORLs, for which thered been no previous 
diagnosis and therefore Allianz didnt exclude as a pre-existing condition.
On balance, in the circumstances of this case I think Allianz has acted fairly and 
reasonably in backdating the exclusion and declining part of the claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman