DRN-2157525
The complaint
Ms D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) debited her joint account 
with a series of online transactions which she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
Shes also unhappy NatWest closed the account without her consent. 
What happened 
What Ms D says 
Ms Ds complaint relates to a joint savings account opened with her mum in January 2003. 
Ms D says her ex-husband took over the account. She says she met him in 1998 and got 
engaged in July 2001, at which point he moved in with Ms D and her mum. Ms D and her 
exhusband then bought a home towards the end of 2004.
Ms D says her ex-husband set up online banking on her account and then used it without 
her knowledge. He transferred money to Ms Ds current account and then transferred it from 
there to a joint account and to pay credit cards. Ms D explains she wasnt aware of the 
misuse of her account until she recently made a subject access request. At the time the 
transactions took place Ms D says she was in an abusive relationship and was prevented 
from viewing any statements.
The account was closed in 2008. Ms D says she didnt give instructions to close it and 
questions how a joint account can be closed without the knowledge of one account holder. 
Ms D has pointed out that the email address used to set up online banking is incorrect as it 
has a double domain, which should have alerted NatWest to the fact the online facility was 
set up fraudulently. She questions how its possible to convert an account to an online 
account, hijack it and subsequently close it without arousing bank suspicion despite the fake 
email address. The following transfers to Ms Ds current account are disputed: 
Date Amount
25/03/03 £1,000
09/08/04 £13,375
07/12/04 £5,000
18/03/05 £1,000
07/11/06 £5,000
07/11/06 £3,337.88
17/07/08 £2,500
29/01/08 £812
There was also a payment in on 6 September 2004 from Ms Ds current account of £2,500.
What NatWest says 
NatWest noted the transactions were made over six years ago and said that because of this 
it was unable to investigate them. In view of the fact Ms D says she only found out about the 
transactions more recently when she made a data request NatWest consented to this 
service investigating Ms Ds complaint. NatWest is satisfied it didnt make any errors. 
NatWest has told this service:
- Given the fact the account was closed in 2008 it has limited information. NatWest 
referred to the 13 month time bar rule and to its legal requirements under the General 
Data Protection Regulations.
- To be able to make online payments Ms Ds card, PIN and an authorisation number 
were needed.
- It is satisfied Ms D gave instructions to close the account in 2008. - Only one 
signature is required to close a joint account so Ms Ds joint account could be closed 
without her authority. 
Our investigation so far 
The investigator said NatWest acted reasonably. He concluded that on balance Ms D set up 
online payments herself and if her ex-husband had access it was because she shared the 
details. The investigator set out the steps that needed to be taken for an online payment to 
be made and confirmed that the card, a PIN and password were required. Given the 
passage of time it wasnt possible to establish details like where the account was accessed 
and from what device. The payments made were not unusual, so NatWest had no reason to 
be concerned about them. And as payments were made to Ms Ds current account, she had 
the benefit of them. 
In relation to the closure of Ms Ds accounts, the investigator said NatWest acted on written 
instructions. The signature on those instructions was substantially similar to the one NatWest 
had on record for Ms D, so he couldnt conclude it acted unreasonably in closing the 
accounts. 
Ms D didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said:
- Her account was not operated with her full consent and knowledge.
- An email from her ex-husband confirms he applied for online banking and asked for 
her account details.
- The signatures NatWest had on record were not hers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process transactions 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken 
that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.Its important to say that my role here is to decide if NatWest did anything wrong and, if so, 
how to put things right. I should also say Im only considering Ms Ds joint account with her 
mum here. 
I understand why Ms D was unable to bring this complaint sooner, but the passage of time 
means that information Id normally consider in a case like this is no longer available. For 
example, I cant look into which device was used to log in to Ms Ds account online. 
Having carefully considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I dont think 
its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Ms D authorised the transactions she 
disputes. This is because:
- On balance Im persuaded that although Ms Ds ex-husband may have contacted 
NatWest to start the process of setting up online banking, Ms D completed the next 
steps to set it up. I say this because NatWest has explained the process that applied 
at the time. NatWest says it would have sent a pack to Ms Ds home address. At the 
time online banking was set up, Ms D did not live with her former husband.
- Once online banking was set up, I consider the evidence points to the fact Ms D 
made the payments or provided relevant details to allow her ex-partner to do so. Ive 
seen evidence from NatWest that confirms the steps required to set up a new payee 
online. These steps would need to be taken each time a payment was made for the 
first time to someone new. The evidence from NatWest confirms that the card needs 
to be placed in the card reader, the PIN entered, followed by the authorisation code 
from online banking. The customer is then required to enter in to the online banking 
screen a code generated by the card reader. I cant see how a new payee could have 
been set up without Ms Ds knowledge given the personal details that were required.
- Once a new payee had been set up characters from Ms Ds PIN and password were 
required to make a payment.
- I dont consider the email evidence Ms D has provided shows Ms Ds ex-husband set 
up online banking without her knowledge. 
An undated email Ms D says her former husband sent in 2000 says:
Just wanting to sort out this online banking thing so I can make you a beneficiary  
direct over the web. 
I need the name on your account Presumably [] the account number and the 
sortcode 
As I have applied for this for you too you will be able to do the same when your stuff 
arrives in about a week I will give you my details then. 
In my opinion this email exchange shows Ms Ds ex-partner asked for the name on 
her account, the sort-code and account number in order to set Ms D up as a 
beneficiary on his account. He then went on to say Ms D could set him up as a 
beneficiary on her account once her pack arrived in around a week. The email does 
suggest Ms Ds ex-partner contacted NatWest to ask for the pack to be sent, but as I 
said above the pack would have been sent to Ms Ds address, and at the time she 
didnt live with her ex-partner. I dont consider that because Ms Ds ex-husband 
requested the pack, he was able to go on and set up online banking for Ms D without 
her providing further information.- Due to the passage of time NatWest no longer has any documents relating to the 
setting up of online banking and there is no evidence of any email correspondence 
on NatWests file. In these circumstances, I cant conclude that the incorrect email 
address held by NatWest should have alerted it to any potential issues with her 
account.
- The payments made were not unusual in any way. They were all transfers to her 
current account. 
Ive balanced what Ms D has said about her circumstances alongside other evidence 
including various emails/texts between her and her ex-husband and having done so, its 
difficult to conclude that she wasnt aware he had her details or that NatWest ought to have 
picked up on something because the activity between the account didnt seen unusual. 
Closure of account
Ms D has said she didnt close the account. Ive been provided with a copy of the form used 
to request the closure of the account. Ms D says the signature on it isnt hers, and that the 
signature NatWest has on record also isnt hers. Im not a signature or handwriting expert 
but believe the signature on the form is sufficiently similar to that on the complaint form Ms D 
sent to this service to conclude it is hers. Given this, Im persuaded NatWest acted 
reasonably in closing Ms Ds accounts.
NatWest no longer has the terms and conditions that applied to the joint account at the time 
the account was closed in 2008. Given the time that has elapsed since the closure I dont 
expect it to have retained a copy. It has provided recent terms and conditions which say that 
a joint account can be closed by one account holder. So I also consider NatWest acted 
reasonably in closing Ms Ds joint account without the joint account holders signature. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that NatWest was on notice or ought to have been that it 
wasnt dealing with Ms D as she suggests.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for NatWest to refuse to refund 
the transactions Ms D disputes and to close the account. 
Thats not to say that I dont have a great deal of sympathy or that I dont believe Ms D when 
she has explained her circumstances, or that she doesnt have a claim against her 
exhusband. Im simply considering whether its fair to hold NatWest responsible for the 
losses Ms D says she incurred, and, in the circumstances, I dont think it is.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and the 
estate of Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman