DRN-3512861
The complaint
Mrs Z (represented by Mrs T) complains that the agent used by her broker, Cornmarket 
Insurance Services Limited, provided poor service when she called to make a claim on her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Z says that when she called Cornmarket, she thought she was calling her insurer. But 
the call handler said at the start that she was through to firm P (Cornmarkets agent)) and 
that firm P dealt with calls on behalf of her insurer. 
After Mrs Z said her car had been hit in the rear, the handler asked if she needed a 
replacement car, which she said she did. He then said hed pass on the details to firm K. 
Mrs Z said immediately that shed dealt with firm K previously and made no objection to the 
referral. But later on, after Mrs Z became unhappy with firm Ks service, she said she should 
have been given the option of claiming on her policy.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Zs complaint. He said all the parties agreed that firm 
Ps handler didnt inform Mrs Z of her options. But he didnt think shed have acted differently 
had he done so, as Mrs Z had used firm K before and seemed content to be referred to it 
again. He also said the advantages of using an accident management firm such as firm K 
were that a consumer didnt have to pay the policy excess on a claim and that a replacement 
car was always provided. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the handler should have told Mrs Z that she had the option to claim on her policy, I 
think it was made clear that she was being referred to a firm that wasnt the insurer  and the 
handler said towards the end of the call that hed notify Mrs Zs insurer of what had 
happened. I think that confirmed what had already been said. 
It was open to Mrs Z to query the referral, to ask more about it - or to say that she wanted to 
claim on her policy. I cant say for sure why she didnt do so. But think it must have been 
because shed used firm K before, after another non-fault accident. I think its safe to 
assume that all must have gone well on that occasion. Otherwise Mrs Z is likely to have 
objected to the referral. Instead, she seemed happy with it. During the rest of the call, she 
seemed relaxed and joked with the handler throughout. Mrs T says Mrs Z wasnt in a 
reasonable frame of mind at the time, but I dont think theres any evidence of that.
 
Had the handler given Mrs Z all the details that should have been provided, hed have told 
her that she could claim on her policy - but that using firm K meant she wouldnt have to pay 
the policy excess and that shed have a replacement car from the outset. Hed have said that 
if Mrs Z claimed on her policy, the excess would be payable  and if her car was written-off, 
rather than repaired, she wouldnt get a replacement car from the insurer. In addition, the 
handler should have told Mrs Z that if things went wrong, we wouldnt be able to deal with a 
complaint about firm K, as its activities fall outside our jurisdiction. 
It isnt possible to say for certain what Mrs Z would have done had she been given all the 
facts. So I have to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
In my opinion, as Mrs Z had used firm K before without any problem, shed have used it 
again because of the advantages that came with making that choice. In particular, it offered 
a guaranteed replacement car, which she said she needed. At the time, Mrs Z had no 
reason to think shed be unhappy with firm K later on.  So I dont think shed have made a 
different decision based on the fact that we wouldnt be able to look into any potential failings 
on firm Ks part - especially when it seems she was happy with firm Ks previous service.  
I think its understandable that Mrs Z is upset about what happened. Firm Ps handler was at 
fault, and Cornmarket is responsible for its agents actions. But as I dont think the poor 
service from the agent made any difference to the outcome, I cant uphold Mrs Zs complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman