DRN-3290957
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund transactions he made from his HSBC 
accounts to a fraudulent investment firm.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr C made two payments to buy bitcoin. He made one payment from his credit 
card and one payment from his current account, using his debit card. He was instructed by a 
fraudulent investment firm, ZXOptions, to legitimately buy the bitcoin and then transfer it to 
them to invest with. Mr C believed he had invested, and his investment was growing. But 
when he attempted to withdraw funds, he discovered hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr C contacted HSBC and asked it to help him recover the funds. HSBC started the 
processes to complete a chargeback and a Section 75 claim for Mr C, but the merchant 
refused to refund the money, as it showed it had supplied Mr C with the bitcoin. HSBC 
accepted this and so didnt pursue these further. It also didnt agree it shouldve prevented 
these transactions from being processed. Mr C disagreed and raised a formal complaint, but 
HSBC didnt change its outcome.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt agree HSBC had done 
something wrong. He agreed that neither a chargeback nor Section 75 claim wouldve been 
successful, as Mr C hadnt paid the scammer direct. And he didnt think the value of the 
transactions were high enough, or that they were unusual enough, for HSBC to have 
intervened in the payments and asked Mr C any questions. Mr C asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has said that HSBC should get his moneyback via chargeback, as he didnt in fact 
receive an investment service from ZXOptions, as it was a scam. But as Ive set out above, 
Mr C didnt pay directly, he used his card to buy bitcoin and then transferred this to the 
scammer. So I cant say it was unfair of HSBC not to pursue a chargeback, as this process 
wouldnt be successful. The bitcoin provider did fulfil its role and provide Mr C with the 
service he paid for, so theres no chargeback claim here. And the bitcoin provider isnt 
responsible for the fact he then passed the bitcoin to ZXOptions and it was stolen. 
In relation to the credit card payment, Mr Cs also mentioned a claim under Section 75. But 
as above, for this to be successful there has to be a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by the supplier  so the bitcoin provider, as this is who Mr C paid. And there wasnt one. His 
complaint is about how ZXOptions misrepresented itself to him, but they arent the party 
Mr C paid using his credit card. So Im also satisfied that he doesnt have a successful 
Section 75 claim.
Ive then considered whether HSBC shouldve blocked either of these transactions or 
contacted Mr C to discuss the payments further, before processing them. 
Ive looked at the value of the payments, their destination and the general activity on Mr Cs 
account to decide whether or not HSBC shouldve intervened in these payments. Neither 
payment was for more than one thousand pounds and as Mr C was buying genuine bitcoin 
to send to the scammer, he was paying a genuine merchant. So I dont think the amounts 
being sent or the destination of the payments ought to have caused HSBC any concern.
Mr C has said that if HSBC had searched for ZXOptions online it wouldve found warnings 
about them and poor reviews. But there was nothing to link these payments to ZXOptions 
from HSBCs perspective, as they didnt go direct. And, while I accept this was a 
sophisticated scam, Mr C couldve performed that search himself, as he did know who the 
end recipient was. Although from my own research, these warnings in fact appeared after 
Mr C had made the payments.
Ive looked at Mr Cs bank statements and I can see that he has a history of making 
international payments and for making payments of a similar value to the disputed debit card 
transaction. So I cant agree that this shouldve flagged up as unusual to HSBC, when it is in 
line with his other spending. And while Mr C didnt have a history of spending on his credit 
card, I dont think this payment shouldve caused concern either. As above, it wasnt for a 
large sum and was to a genuine bitcoin seller. I understand that Mr C has lost money as the 
result of a scam, but I cant fairly say HSBC is responsible for this or that it does need to 
refund him what hes lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman