DRN-3303014
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vanquis Bank Limited has irresponsibly lent to him and they didnt treat 
him with forbearance when they knew he was suffering from financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr R was approved for a Vanquis credit card in April 2016, with a £500 credit limit. Mr R 
complained to Vanquis as he said when he applied for the card, Vanquis should have seen 
he was having financial difficulties as he had opened a number of accounts prior to opening 
his Vanquis account. Mr R says he was constantly over his credit limit with other providers.
Vanquis did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said Mr R had declared he was employed, 
working full time with an annual income of £12,000. His credit file did not show any County 
Court Judgements (CCJs) or previously defaulted debt. His external unsecured borrowings 
were around £6,700 at the time his account was approved.
In regards to Mr Rs comments about financial difficulty, Vanquis said that theyd had limited 
contact with Mr R since his account had been opened and if he would have told them he was 
suffering from financial difficulties then Vanquis wouldve been able to look into the options 
available to Mr R. Vanquis said they wouldve been able to find an affordable and 
sustainable solution to give him one less thing to worry about at this time. 
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
She said that from the credit file that Mr R had provided to us, it appeared his existing 
accounts were in good standing at the time of the application. She also said that the credit 
file didnt show a rapid uptake of credit in the 12 months preceding the credit application and 
shed not seen that Mr R needed to commit half of his net salary towards repaying these 
outstanding debts.
Our investigator said regarding the financial difficulties, that Mr R explained he didnt have 
much communication with Vanquis and never discussed being in financial difficulty with 
them. While Mr R had said that he believes Vanquis shouldve treated him with forbearance 
and due consideration, she couldnt see that they had the opportunity to do so, as Mr R had 
never raised any concerns about his financial position with them.
Mr R asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said at the time of his 
application, he had exceeded his credit limit on at least three out of the five revolving credit 
accounts he had. He said he took out more than six new credit accounts in the 12 months 
prior to him applying for the Vanquis card and he wouldve needed to commit half of his net 
salary to service his accounts. He disagreed Vanquis showed him forbearance with his 
financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mr R, Vanquis needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to; the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks Vanquis said they did prior to accepting Mr Rs application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mr R
had gave them, such as being employed, earnings of £12,000, living at home with his 
parents and they looked at the information on his credit file. Vanquis said that Mr Rs credit 
file showed he had external unsecured outstanding debt of around £6,700.
But thats not all the credit file showed. It showed that Mr R hadnt defaulted in the past or 
had any CCJs. So Ive considered if the checks that Vanquis carried out were proportionate 
to the level of credit that Mr R was given. Based on the data showing that Mr R had no 
accounts in arrears at the time of his application, he was given a low initial credit limit in 
relation to his earnings, then Im persuaded that the checks Vanquis carried out here were 
proportionate.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about him exceeding at least three of his credit limits 
prior to his application. But the credit file hes supplied our service does not show this was 
the case. The credit file shows 0s for the statuses of his accounts, which suggests Mr R was 
not in arrears at the time of his application. 
Ive also considered what Mr R has said about him taking at least six new credit accounts in 
the 12 months prior to him making an application. I can see that in 2016, Mr R applied for a 
third party credit card a few weeks before applying for the Vanquis card. But as it was so 
close to the acceptance date for his Vanquis card (less than a month), Im doubtful whether 
the credit agencies would have updated their data for this to be available to Vanquis. But 
that being said, the amount of credit which was approved by the third party was a very 
modest £200. So Im not persuaded that this should have made Vanquis believe they should 
make further checks, even if they saw this data. 
From Mr Rs credit file, it shows in the previous twelve months to him being accepted for his 
Vanquis card, he had been accepted for two loans and two credit cards (three if the March 
2016 card was available for Vanquis to see). While this may seem like a lot of applications. It 
was November 2015, when Vanquis would have definitely been able to see his last credit 
card had been opened, with a modest £450 credit limit. So it would have been five months 
prior to him being approved for the Vanquis card. And Vanquis had taken into account his 
external total outstanding debt when they approved him for the card.
Looking at Mr Rs credit file, I agree with our investigator that at the time Mr R was approved 
for the Vanquis card, that the credit file doesnt suggest he would have been paying half of 
his net salary out for his unsecured debt. The credit file shows no payday loans prior to him 
being approved for the card, no accounts in arrears, no CCJs and no defaults. So I cant 
agree with Mr R that there were signs prior to him being approved for the card that he was 
suffering financial difficulties. 
I was sorry to read that Mr R was having financial difficulties. So Ive thought about what hes 
said about Vanquis not showing him forbearance. But Im not persuaded that Vanquis realistically would have known that Mr R was having financial difficulties as it doesnt appear 
that hes told them this. 
I have looked at Mr Rs credit card statements. And despite them showing he was often over 
his credit limit, Mr R often makes a payment to his account each month. While there are 
cash withdrawals that Mr R occasionally makes, these are not signs of financial difficulties 
alone.
Ive had a look at Vanquis system notes to see the communication theyve had with Mr R. 
This would give me an indication to see if Mr R has discussed his financial difficulties with 
Vanquis. I can see that Mr R spoke to Vanquis over the phone in 2017, 2018 and 2019. 
The first call on 10 May 2017, is in relation to Mr R not making his previous months payment. 
While this could suggest Mr R was having financial difficulties at the time, the system notes 
show that Mr R explained to Vanquis that he would meet the payment on 29 May 2017. His 
following statement shows that he made the payment just two days after the call and he 
made another payment on 27 May 2017. This brought his account back into credit. There 
are no notes to suggest Mr R told Vanquis of any financial difficulty here, and as he made a 
double payment, this may suggest to Vanquis that there would be no concern about him 
being in financial difficulties.
Mr R was spoken to by Vanquis on 30 August 2018, about being over his credit limit and a 
late payment. The notes suggest that Mr R had moved money out of his bank account and 
therefore his direct debit to Vanquis was returned unpaid. The notes show that Mr R wanted 
to make manual payments in the future. So again, if Mr R was having financial difficulties, 
Im persuaded that while he was in contact with Vanquis here that he should have let them 
know about this. By saying to Vanquis that he had just removed money from his account and 
thats why his direct debit was returned, and by saying he wanted to make manual 
payments, then Im persuaded Vanquis would have been reassured by this explanation, 
especially as Mr R didnt often miss his payments. And Vanquis were still not made aware of 
any financial difficulties Mr R may have been in.
The call notes on 10 July 2019 suggest that Vanquis had discussed persistent debt with Mr 
R. The notes show that he can do £70.00 within the next 6 months. So while Mr R had 
been classed as in persistent debt by the definition of the regulator, as he had paid more in 
charges, fees and interest as opposed to reducing his outstanding his capital balance, Mr R 
needed to pay £70 to be considered out of persistent debt and he had indicated to Vanquis 
he was able to do this. If Mr R was in financial difficulties here, I would have expected him to 
not agree to pay more than his contractual minimum monthly payment and to make Vanquis 
aware of any financial difficulties. So it follows I wont be asking Vanquis to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman