DRN-2127547
The complaint
Mr J isnt happy about the fees Allay Claims Ltd charged him for representing him in
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr J said he asked Allay to carry out a free PPI check on his behalf. In August 
2019, one of his lenders Ill call L told him his claim was successful and the amount of 
compensation hed receive. And in September 2019, Allay sent Mr J an invoice for their 
success fee. Mr J said the fee they asked for was greater than the 24% they said it would 
be. And he said he cancelled any other claims he had with Allay. He later complained to 
Allay.
Allay said their fees were in line with the terms Mr J had agreed to when he gave his 
authority for them to represent him. And theyd closed any other claims he had with them 
that were within the 14-day cooling off period.
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us. And said Allay had sent him an 
invoice, in March 2020, for £100 for cancelling a claim he had with another lender Ill call B
Our investigator looked into his concerns, but he didnt think Mr Js complaint should be 
upheld. He thought Allay had given Mr J clear information about their success fees. He was 
also satisfied that Mr J had received his settlement from the lender as a result of Allays 
involvement. He said the terms also made it clear that a reasonable fee would be charged if 
Mr J cancelled an agreement after the 14-day cooling off period.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. He said Allay hadnt been clear about their fees as 
hed been led to believe their fee would be charged on the amount he received not the gross 
amount before income tax was deducted. And this meant hed paid 26.4%, not the 24% 
theyd stated.
Mr J asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. In reaching my decision Ive looked to see if the information Allay provided to Mr 
J was clear. And whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in what theyve done.
Allay has shown Mr J made an online application for a free PPI check in July 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr J has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mr Js lenders, and these details were 
provided. So, on balance I think  Mr J completed the on-line form as the information was 
specific to him. On completion of the application, a LoA was generated populated with the 
supplied information. And to be submitted a signature had to be added and this is what 
happened. Allays terms of engagement (ToE) were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Mr J had agreed to them. And these say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
Mr J says he was mis-led as to the percentage fee Allay would charge, so Ive looked at the 
ToEs Mr J agreed to when he gave his authority for Allay to represent him. These explain 
that Allay would act for him on a No Win No Fee basis. They go on to say:
We are entitled to receive 24% (inclusive of VAT where applicable) of redress recovered
relating to all accounts with your lenders, no matter if received after the initial settlement, 
whether the redress was received in whole or part by way of loan/arrears reduction, refund
of premiums, and/or in cash. The fee is calculated before any applicable tax
payment/deduction for which you are liable (gross amount).
And give some examples to show how the fee is calculated and what customers could 
receive in settlement .And in each example Allays 24% fee is taken from the gross amount 
of redress they obtain for their customer. I havent seen any evidence that Allay state their 
fee is taken from the net amount a customer would receive from the lender. The redress 
Allay got from lender L was £113.20. And not the amount Mr J said he received from lender  
L, £102.38 as this was the amount after lender L had deducted income tax. So, Allays 
fee would be calculated on the gross amount of £113.20 and this would be £27.17, which is 
the amount theyve asked Mr J to pay.
So, I think Allay gave Mr J clear information about their fees, including that it would be based
on the settlement amount before tax had been deducted by the lender. As Mr J had a 
successful claim with lender L I think Allay can charge their success fee, as outlined above.
Mr J said that after he was invoiced this amount, he went on to cancel any other claims he 
had with Allay. But Allay has since charged him a £100 cancellation fee for a claim with  
lender B. So, Ive looked at Allays ToEs about cancellation, they say:
If you terminate this agreement after the 14-day cooling off period and prior to an offer of 
redress, Allay reserves the right to make a reasonable and proportionate
cancellation charge that will reflect the work undertaken by Allay in pursuit of your claim.
And go on to say:
When a cancellation is requested, we will send you an itemised bill outlining the
work Allay have carried out on your behalf. Charges will be calculated as follows:
For substantiation and referral of Your Claim to the Third Party, we will charge you 
£60 (inclusive of VAT where applicable).
For referral of Your Claim to the FOS, we will charge you £60 (inclusive of VAT 
where applicable).
For any manual communication e.g. an outgoing or incoming call/letter/email to or 
from either You or the Third Party, we will charge you £40 (inclusive of VAT where
applicable).For any automated communication e.g. automated update letters or text messages to 
you, we will charge you £10 (inclusive of VAT where applicable).
Allay has shown Mr Js claim to lender B was submitted 6 August 2019, this would mean 
Mr J had till 20 August 2019 to cancel the agreement without charge. Mr J has shown a 
letter he said he sent to Allay in September 2019 asking Allay to cancel all other claims they 
had with him. Allay dont have a record of this in their notes. But they show lender B 
confirmed to them in March 2020 that Mr J had told them in November 2019 that he no 
longer wanted Allay to act for him.
Either way I think this shows that Mr J cancelled his claim outside of the 14-day cooling off 
period. And explains why Allay didnt invoice Mr J for the cancellation until March 2020. As 
outlined above, when a claim is cancelled outside the 14-day cooling off period, Allay will 
send an itemised bill outlining the work theyve done. And I can see this has happened here, 
and the charge seems reasonable and in line with their ToEs.
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision. But I think he authorised Allay to act on 
his behalf and they have charged their fees in line with the ToEs Mr J had agreed to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman