DRN-3805561
The complaint
Ms W complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) should have done more to help 
her when she lost her job and contacted them about her hire purchase agreement for her 
car. 
What happened
Ms W took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in 2019 for a car. It was a four 
year agreement with a balloon payment at the end to enable her to own the car if she 
wanted to. 
In December 2021, Ms W lost her job. She contacted Black Horse in January 2022 to 
explain that shed lost her job and was concerned about the monthly payments. She told 
them that she wanted to keep the car but had no income at all at that point. Black Horse said 
that based on her circumstances, there wasnt anything they could really do. They explained 
that because she wanted to keep the car, options were limited. 
They said in their final response letter (FRL) that they had explained if she was prepared to 
give up the car, there might be options to sell the car privately and pay off the finance, or to 
reach the halfway point of payments and voluntarily terminate the agreement. But as she 
wanted to keep the car, there werent any options they could offer. 
Ms W decided to try to pay off the finance, so told us that she put all of her savings together 
and borrowed some money from friends. In March 2022 she was able to pay off the car 
finance in full. Around the same time, she complained to Black Horse. She said that when 
arranging to pay the finance off, someone at Black Horse had apologised and said there 
should have been more that they could have done to help her. 
Black Horse responded with their FRL in May 2022. They upheld her complaint and 
explained that they still felt that there wouldnt have been any other options for Ms W at the 
time, but that they felt they could have done more to explain this, and to explore what she 
was telling them about her income and expenditure at the time. They explained that the 
advisor who had said they could not set up a payment plan when she had no income should 
have discussed this more, to explain that they wouldnt set up a payment plan if a customer 
has no income, because that might put a customer into further financial problems. 
On the basis that they felt they should have explained things better to Ms W, they upheld the 
complaint and offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Ms W didnt agree with this and brought her complaint to our service in August 2022. She 
didnt agree with Black Horses explanation that they were a responsible lender so wouldnt 
do anything to put a customer into financial detriment; Ms W felt that they had put her in 
financial detriment by making her use all her savings to clear the finance. 
An investigator here investigated the case and gave their view that Black Horse didnt need 
to do anything more. They felt that Black Horses recognition that they could have done a 
little more here was correct and the offer of £100 was in line with what theyd expect to see. 
They explained that because Ms W had told Black Horse she had no income, it wouldnt 
have been reasonable for Black Horse to put a payment plan in place, as this could have put 
her in a worse position.
Ms W didnt agree with this. She said she doesnt understand how a payment plan could 
have put her in a worse position, it would have given her time to get another job (which she 
now has). She asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Ms W was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it.
Firstly, Id just like to say that I was sorry to hear about Ms W losing her job last Christmas, 
but glad to hear she is now back in employment. I appreciate how this kind of situation can 
create stress, and Im glad it sounds like she is now through the other side of this and back 
working. 
Having reviewed the case file here, I think weve ended up with a situation where Ms W 
hasnt really had an explanation that makes sense to her about why Black Horses actions 
and their complaint response is fair. I will try to do this below, but Im sorry that this hasnt 
happened up to this point. 
When considering a situation like this, its difficult for Ms W not to consider things using 
hindsight. In her mind, Black Horse could have given her a period without making payments 
(or making reduced payments), and then when she got a new job, she could have cleared 
any short term arrears that had built up, without having to use all her savings paying off the 
finance. 
In considering the complaint, I have to put myself into the position Black Horse were in in 
January 2022. So, I have to take away the element of hindsight, and consider what they 
could or should have done back then. 
When a consumer contacts a finance provider to talk about needing support, there is 
guidance in place from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to help ensure the consumer 
is treated fairly by the business. What circumstances the consumer is in will dictate what 
support a business should offer. 
In Ms Ws circumstances, she was clear that she wanted to keep the car. She was also clear 
that she had no income at all, and no job. Expecting to get a new job, and having a new job, 
are two different things in the eyes of the guidance. It may help if I use a different example to 
explain things.  
Hypothetically, in a similar situation, lets consider where a business has been told that a 
consumer expects to secure a new job soon. The business puts in place a period where the consumer doesnt need to make payments (they had no income to make any payments), but 
then the consumer doesnt secure a new job. 
In those circumstances, arrears would have built up and be owing (and would be being 
reported on the consumers credit file), and the missed payments would also be being 
reported on the credit file. Id consider that the business would have treated the consumer 
unfairly, because when they made that decision to allow the consumer to make no payments 
and for arrears to build up, there was no job offer or income in place. Giving the consumer a 
period without having to make payments has left them worse off, as their credit file has been 
impacted and they still owe the arrears. And they still dont have a job.  
In Ms Ws circumstances, because she told Black Horse she had no income and no job, it 
would have been unfair to allow her to build up arrears on the agreement with no clear 
prospect of how she could pay them back. Similarly, because she was clear she wanted to 
keep the car, Black Horse couldnt explore further with her the options of returning or selling 
the car to deal with the outstanding finance.  
So, there was, in reality, no option of a payment plan of any sorts available. She had no 
income to service any payments (a payment plan would involve making at least reduced 
payments for a period of time). It wouldnt be fair to Ms W to have allowed the agreement to 
just continue for an unknown period of time, with no payments, building up arrears, with no 
plan as to how, or when, the arrears could be paid off. Hypothetically assuming that they 
would be paid off when Ms W got a new job risks further, bigger problems in the future. 
Black Horse said in their FRL that they accept that they could have offered a short period of 
breathing space. This means that for usually 30 days or 60 days, they wont chase a 
consumer for any missed payments. But then, they will look to speak to the consumer at the 
end of that period to decide on a payment plan for any arrears. 
The maximum period for this would be 60 days. I agree that this is something that Black 
Horse could have offered Ms W. On that basis, Ive considered what impact this has had on 
her. I can see it was around two and a half months before Ms W paid off the finance. So, I 
think its fair to say that if Black Horse had offered breathing space, with hindsight, this may 
only have put Ms W in a worse position. 
Breathing space would have meant potential arrears building up and missed payments if Ms 
W didnt make payments, so her credit file would have been impacted. While Ms W has a job 
now, she didnt have one in early March 2022 when this period would have ended, because 
she went ahead later in March and used her savings to clear the finance and end the 
agreement. In the best case, Ms W would have ended up in the same position she did end 
up in; using all her savings to clear the finance. 
There would have been no benefit to Ms W in having used breathing space. She would 
have ended up with arrears on her agreement, and still not being able to agree a payment 
plan for the agreement, as she didnt have a new job when the breathing space would have 
come to an end. 
I agree that Black Horse could have been more empathetic and explained things better to 
Ms W. They also could have offered breathing space, but Im not persuaded this has had 
any financial impact on Ms W. They also could have asked her to fill in an income and 
expenditure form, to confirm what she had told them on the phone, that she had no income 
at the time. But again, Im not persuaded that there has been any financial impact from this. 
She didnt have any income, so the form would really just have confirmed for them what 
shed already told them on the phone. Upholding her complaint was the right thing to do and making a payment for the distress 
caused was fair. But I also agree with Black Horse that based on what they knew at the time, 
there wasnt anything more that they could or should have done with regards to payment 
plans for Ms W. Ms W also complained about the stress caused to her at Christmas by what 
happened, but as she didnt tell Black Horse that she had lost her job until the New Year, Im 
not persuaded that Black Horse could have done any more to help with that. 
Black Horse have come to broadly the right conclusions, but unfortunately, not explained 
their thinking very well to Ms W. She has been left believing that shes been told by them 
that they should have agreed a payment plan of some sort, which would have meant she 
didnt need to use all her savings to clear the finance. However, in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that would have been the right thing for Black Horse to have done. I think theyve 
done the right thing by not risking putting her into a potentially worse financial position. 
Im sorry for how this has all been explained to Ms W. Im not sure anyone has managed to 
clearly explain the thinking here, and I hope my attempt above is more helpful to her. Im 
glad to hear she secured a new job later in the year, and hope that her finances are now 
back where she would want them to be. 
However, Im satisfied that Black Horse have treated her fairly in upholding her complaint 
and offering to make a payment of £100 to her. I think £100 suitably reflects the distress 
caused by their error. This is because the distress theyve caused is in wrongly suggesting 
that they might have been able to do more with regards to payment plans.  
I completely understand that Ms W felt that they should be paying more compensation, 
because that is based on believing that Black Horse should have done something more for 
her with regards to a payment plan. But as Ive explained above, that isnt the case, so its 
fair that they only compensate her for the error they did make. 
Im unclear if this £100 payment has been made or not, but if not, then Ms W can make 
contact with Black Horse to arrange payment. I wont be asking Black Horse to do anything 
other than that.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman