DRN-3937477
The complaint
Mr H complains about Bennetts Motorcycling Services Limited (BMS) and their failure to 
make him reasonably aware his motorcycle insurance policy was due to renew.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr H purchased a motorcycle insurance policy through BMS, who were acting 
as an intermediary. The policy itself was underwritten by a separate insurer.
In May 2022, Mr Hs policy was due for renewal. So, BMS wrote to Mr H providing him with 
his renewal documents which included a breakdown of his premium for the year ahead. Mr 
Hs policy was set up for automatic renewal in June 2021 and so, as BMS received no 
contact from Mr H, they proceeded to renew the policy and take the policys first premium 
payment. They also set up a new direct debit for payment of the new policy premium.
Mr H was unhappy about this, so he called BMS to complain. Mr H didnt think BMS had 
provided him with the renewal documents, and he didnt think sending these documents by 
post only was fair. Mr H was also unhappy that to cancel the new policy that had been set 
up, BMS were charging him an additional cancellation fee. So, Mr H wanted BMS to refund 
him what hed paid so far, amend his credit file and amend the way they communicate with 
customers regarding renewals.
BMS responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought it was made reasonably 
clear in the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H took out in June 2021 that the policy 
would automatically renew, unless they were instructed otherwise by Mr H. And they didnt 
think it was fair for them to be held responsible for any issues Mr H experienced receiving 
his renewal documents by post, as they could confirm they had been sent. BMS also 
recognised the wait times Mr H experienced trying to call them and explained they were 
taking action to try and reduce this moving forward. So, because of the above, BMS didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought BMS had acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held, when proceeding to 
automatically renew the policy. While she didnt dispute Mr Hs testimony that he hadnt 
received the renewal documents, she didnt think this was because of anything BMS did 
wrong. And she felt Mr H shouldve been reasonably aware of when his policy was due to 
end and so, take action if he didnt wish for the policy he had to renew. Finally, she didnt 
think the wait times Mr H were unreasonable to the extent that Mr H should be 
compensated. So, she didnt think BMS needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained his belief that BMS shouldve emailed his renewal 
documents to him, rather than sending them by post. And that if they had, he wouldve seen 
the renewal and ensured the renewal was cancelled before he was charged. So, he 
maintained his belief that he should be refunded the costs hed incurred for the new policy, 
and its cancellation. Our investigator commented on this point, explaining it was BMS 
business decision to send renewal information by post and that our service is unable to 
comment on a commercial business process. Mr H continued to disagree and so, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I dont dispute Mr Hs 
testimony that he didnt intend to renew the policy he held with BMS. Nor do I dispute Mr Hs 
testimony that he didnt receive the renewal documentation. So, I can understand why Mr H 
assumed the policy would elapse at no further cost to himself. And I can appreciate the 
shock and upset Mr H wouldve felt when he saw a payment taken from his account, 
alongside the receipt of a new direct debit mandate.
But for me to say BMS should compensate Mr H for this upset or refund him the costs hes 
incurred related to the new policy and its cancellation, I first need to be satisfied BMS have 
done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied BMS failed to act within the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mr H already held when deciding to renew it automatically. Or, if I 
think BMS did work within these, Id need to be satisfied BMS acted unfairly in some other 
way that meant Mr H has incurred costs unfairly. In this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the policy documents Mr H was sent when he initially incepted the first policy in 
June 2021. Within these documents, it explains under the heading Automatic Renewal that 
To ensure you stay covered and to save you time, your policy including any optional 
products taken will automatically renew unless you contact us after you receive your renewal 
offer. To opt out of the automatic renewal process, call customer services.
Following this, it also goes onto say that where possible, BMS would use the payment 
authority they already held to take any future payments which become due (such as at 
renewal or where amendments are made to the policy) to help ensure that your insurance 
cover continues uninterrupted.
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr H contacted BMS to opt out of the automatic renewal 
during the initial policy period. And, its not disputed that Mr H didnt contact BMS after the 
renewal documents were sent to halt the renewal, as Mr H has said these documents 
werent received.
So, I dont think BMS were made aware of Mr Hs intention to end the policy. And because of 
this, I think they acted in line with the terms of the policy when processing the automatic 
renewal and taking payment to ensure Mr Hs policy remained uninterrupted so that he 
wasnt at risk of driving without insurance.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think BMS acted unfairly in 
some other way, which has led Mr H to incur avoidable costs. I recognise Mr H feels BMS 
acted unfairly when only sending him renewal documents by post, when they had his email 
address to correspond with him.
But BMS have confirmed that, at the time Mr Hs policy documents were issued, it was their 
business process to issue all renewal documents to a customer by post. While I appreciate Mr Hs unhappiness with this process, this isnt something Im able to comment upon or 
direct BMS to change, as this process falls under BMS commercial decision making, which 
falls under the remit of the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority to investigate. 
But I would expect BMS to ensure this process was followed, and that Mr H was made 
reasonably clear this process was in place.
Ive seen a screenshot of the information Mr H wouldve seen when he was initially 
purchasing the policy. And this explains under the section where Mr H wouldve selected his 
communication preference that regardless of your choice above, we may need to send 
standalone service communications to you to ensure you are kept informed about any 
information regarding your policy, such as renewal reminders. 
I think this made it reasonably clear to Mr H that BMS would be able to make their own 
decision regarding how to send certain documentation, regardless of communication 
preferences. And specifically, renewal information was used as a working example. 
And Ive seen BMS system notes which show on 10 May 2022, Mr Hs renewal documents 
were sent to him by post. So, Im satisfied BMS followed their business process correctly.
While I dont dispute Mr Hs testimony that these renewal documents werent received, I 
dont think its fair for me to hold BMS responsible for any issues encountered with the 
delivery of these documents by the postal service. I can only hold BMS responsible for the 
actions they have taken directly, and Im satisfied from the evidence available to me that the 
documents were sent. So, I think BMS were reasonable to assume these had been delivered 
and, because no contact was received from Mr H, continue to process the renewal in line 
with the terms of the policy he held.
I appreciate Mr H doesnt think its fair for him to be left financially out of pocket for what does 
seem to be an issue with the postal delivery of the documents. But I do think Mr H had a 
responsibility to manage his account and as part of this, understand when the policy was 
due to renew and what action he would need to take if he didnt wish for the policy to 
continue. I cant see any evidence to show Mr H attempted to speak to BMS until the policy 
had already renewed, and a payment had been taken. And as the policy renewed, Mr H had 
the benefit of the policy for the time between the renewal, and the date it was cancelled.
I also note within the policy it explains clearly that, should Mr H choose the cancel the policy 
after it had renewed, a charge would be applicable of differing levels depending on whether 
the cancellation fell within, or outside of, the 14 day cooling off period. So, I dont think I can 
say BMS have acted unfairly when charging Mr H a fee when he made them aware of his 
intention to cancel.
So, because of all of the above, I dont think I can say BMS have done anything wrong on 
this occasion. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Bennetts 
Motorcycling Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Josh HaskeyOmbudsman