DRN-3316596
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has dealt with 
a claim theyve made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife. References I make to Lloyds 
includes its agents and representatives.
The background to this case is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary.
Mr G owns a property insured by a buildings insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds.
In 2019, he noticed damage to his property and concluded subsidence was the likely 
cause. He contacted Lloyds to make a claim on the policy.
Lloyds appointed a specialist to investigate and manage the claim.
Mr G hasnt been happy with how the claim has been handled and has made a 
number of complaints about it. Lloyds has issued various final responses to these 
issues and has paid compensation for things its got wrong.
Unhappy with its response, Mr G raised a complaint with this Service covering the 
entirety of the claim. 
Our Investigator explained why certain parts of the complaint had been raised with us 
too late, but Mr G didnt agree. So, the complaint was referred to me and I issued a 
decision confirming which parts we could  and couldnt - consider.
On the part we could consider  covered by Lloyds final responses in June 2021 and 
July 2021  our Investigator concluded Lloyds had caused delays and hadnt 
arranged a surveyor visit to resolve the issue about the conflicting views on the need 
for underpinning. 
She said the £500 Lloyds had paid in compensation for these issues was fair in the 
circumstances. 
But Mr G remained unhappy and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this claim has gone on for a considerable time and Mr and Mrs G have found the 
whole experience very distressing and inconvenient and I do have sympathy for them. Mr G 
has also reiterated what his complaint is about and that it covers Lloyds refusal for two years 
to agree to underpinning and its ducking and diving for 30 months while it he says it came 
to the same conclusion as the report he had commissioned in November 2019.
As I explained in my jurisdiction decision, this service has to work within the confines of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution rules and they simply cant be disregarded 
no matter how strongly a consumer feels they should be. I know its frustrating for Mr G but 
for the reasons I explained in my jurisdiction decision, Im only able to consider a small part 
of the claim and the impact its had on them. So, my investigation and findings will focus on 
what happened from late Autumn 2020 until Summer 2021, addressed in the Lloyds final 
responses in June and July 2021.
Underpinning
Mr G appointed an engineer in 2019 to offer his opinion as to the cause of the damage. They 
indicated they would not consider the property as suitable security for a mortgage until 
underpinning was carried out.
Lloyds has answered why it feels this wasnt necessary across various final responses that 
were brought out of time  for the reasons outlined above and in my previous jurisdiction 
decision. So, Im not going to comment on any of these historic reasons it gave.
In Summer 2021, Mr G was still pushing Lloyds to underpin the property and wasnt happy 
an engineer hadnt been out to inspect it. Lloyds explained the engineer would normally work 
from pictures, evidence from video surveys and from agents on site and only visit if there 
wasnt enough information to reach a decision. It accepted, in this case, it wouldve been 
beneficial for the engineer to visit and to discuss Mr Gs concerns in more detail. I think it 
could have reached this decision sooner than it did.
When Mr G expressed his dissatisfaction with how things had been handled and his distrust 
of anyone but a senior expert, Lloyds did arrange for one of its senior subsidence experts to 
visit the property. I think this was a reasonable course of action in the circumstances.
Following his visit, the expert identified some concerns about movement to the rear of the 
property as well as at the front and explained he wanted to better understand how the house 
had moved. He accepted there might be the need for some stabilisation measures and he 
wanted to ensure all areas of subsidence were addressed. So he proposed a distortion 
survey and he instructed a specialist to undertake this in July 2021. 
Im satisfied the senior expert took Mr Gs concerns seriously and agreed further specialist 
opinion to ensure all areas of subsidence can be addressed effectively, with the use of 
appropriate stabilisation measures. Im satisfied this is appropriate action in the 
circumstances.
Overall, I do think Lloyds could have reached the decision to do this more quickly than it did 
and without the need for Mr G to chase and push for it as he had to. Lloyds has recognised it 
could have provided much better service than it did here. I note its also provided feedback 
to an advisor who Mr G found to be rude. To recognise the impact of the poor service and 
delays Lloyds has paid Mr G £500 by way of compensation.
Taking everything into account and keeping in mind the relatively small period of time under 
review in this complaint, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Next steps
Once this new specialist report was completed and the conclusions known, Lloyds said it 
would comment further on the disputed issue regarding drain damage. Mr G was going to 
arrange quotes for the stabilisation work required. Mr G let our Investigator know in late 2021 
that he was in the process of obtaining quotes and would submit these to Lloyds for 
consideration once they were received. Hes let us know these have now been received and 
passed to Lloyds.Lloyds has confirmed that once the quotes were received and the stabilisation work 
undertaken, it would move to superstructure repairs and repairs to internal damage. 
I would remind Lloyds of its responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and Id expect 
the next steps of the claim to be undertaken without any further unnecessary delay. If Mr G 
remains unhappy with progress on the next part of the claim, he can of course complain to 
Lloyds again and ultimately, raise a new complaint with this Service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman