DRN-1414048
 
The complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken by Mr R in connection with an 'Aqua' credit card in 
2006. 
Our adjudicator didnt find that the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out. I say this because Mr R did tick the box on his credit card 
application form to show that he wanted the cover.  
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr R.
 
 
 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman