DRN-2539402
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly charged him overdraft fees, and 
failed to take into account his financial difficulties. He also complains that Nationwide failed 
to tell him he could have a basic account.
What happened
Mr S used to have three current accounts with Nationwide. He says that he was charged 
overdraft fees, and that this would not have happened if only Nationwide had told him about 
basic accounts, as these do not allow overdrafts. He argues that he would have got a basic 
account if hed known he could, and then he would not have been charged overdraft fees. 
He also says that he was in financial difficulty due to his divorce and other issues, and that 
Nationwide should therefore refund all overdraft fees incurred since 2008.
Nationwide did not agree. It said that two of Mr Ss accounts had actually been basic 
accounts, and none of the three accounts had ever incurred overdraft fees  not even the 
one which was not a basic account. Some other fees had been charged, for example fees 
for unpaid direct debits, but these had been charged in line with the terms and conditions of 
the relevant accounts. Mr S had not told Nationwide about his financial difficulties at the 
time, and it was not obliged to refund those fees now that it knew about that.
Ms S brought this complaint to our Service. Nationwide pointed out that most of the fees had 
been charged more than six years ago, which meant that they did not fall within the 
jurisdiction of this Service. Only about £68 of fees had been charged within the last six 
years, and it had been entitled to charge them.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed that most of the fees were out of 
our jurisdiction. He thought that since Mr S had had two basic accounts, his complaint that 
he had not been made aware of basic accounts was without merit, especially considering 
that none of the fees had actually been overdraft fees anyway. He had reviewed Mr Ss 
account statements, and there was nothing in them which ought to have suggested to 
Nationwide that Mr S had been in financial difficulty.
Mr S did not agree that any fees should be held to be out of jurisdiction. He argued that he 
had only brought this complaint now because of exceptional circumstances  his divorce, 
alcoholism and his recovery from his former drug addiction. The investigator did not think 
that these had prevented Mr S from managing his day to day finances at the time, so Mr S 
would have been able to complain about the fees at the time. He therefore did not agree that 
the delay in bringing this complaint was due to exceptional circumstances, and he referred 
this case for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most of the fees were charged more than six years before Mr S complained in 2020, and 
they appeared on his monthly statements at the time. I appreciate that Mr S was going 
through a very difficult time a few years ago, for a variety of reasons, but I dont think this 
would have prevented him from complaining about the fees, either at the time or during the 
several years since. A single email, phone call or letter would have been enough to comply 
with the six year time limit. So I agree with our investigator that the delay in bringing this 
complaint is not the result of exceptional circumstances, and that I can only consider the 
fees charged since 2014. Those fees add up to £68, all on the same account.
In fact, all three of Mr Ss Nationwide accounts were basic accounts when they were 
opened. They were all called FlexBasic accounts, and that name appeared prominently on 
the monthly statements and on the terms and conditions. So I think that there is nothing at all 
in his complaint that he wasnt told about basic accounts.
One of the accounts  the one on which the £68 was charged  was upgraded to a 
FlexDirect account in June 2018. But none of those fees were overdraft fees. They were 
mainly for unpaid direct debits. I have seen no evidence to suggest that they were not 
properly charged, and no evidence that Mr S ever told Nationwide that he was in financial 
difficulty prior to bringing this complaint.
Building societies and banks have a duty to respond sympathetically and positively when 
they learn that a customer is in financial difficulty. But the onus is on their customers to tell 
them when that is the case, and that didnt happen here. Nationwide also has a duty to 
proactively contact a customer if it thinks the customer may be in difficulty, without waiting 
for the customer to come forward, but only if it sees information which reasonably suggests 
that may be the case. That does not always necessarily happen, and I dont think it is 
Nationwides fault that it didnt happen this time. So I dont think there is any reason to 
compel Nationwide to refund any of these fees.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman