DRN-3562078
The complaint
Miss C complained because she didnt think Barclays Bank UK PLC had correctly refunded 
her for fraudulent transactions on her account.
What happened
In April 2020, Miss C reported three fraudulent transactions on her Barclaycard. These 
totalled £1,889. 
She wasnt sure that Barclays had refunded her for these, as it had said it would do. 
So she rang Barclays, but she understood from the call that Barclays had applied the 
refunds to her old Barclaycard, not the replacement card after the fraud. 
Miss C complained to Barclays. Barclays spoke to her, and sent her a final response letter. 
With this letter, Barclays enclosed copies of her statements for March, April and May 2020. 
Her balance before any fraudulent transactions had been £2,670.88. Barclays pointed out 
that on her next statement, the three fraudulent transactions had all been credited on the 
same days theyd been debited:
- £602 on 6 April;
- £629 on 9 April; and
- £658 on 11 April.
So Barclays confirmed that the current balance was correct. 
Miss C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said she hadnt had the money 
back, and Barclays was telling her she owed £1,889. She said there had been messages 
with Barclays, but it had told her they were deleted after 90 days. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint, because he thought Barclays had already 
refunded Miss C for the fraudulent transactions. Miss C had said that her online account was 
showing a different outstanding balance to be paid, and the investigator could see that the 
screenshots had said there was an issue. But the investigator said that the information on 
the monthly statements was correct, and showed Barclays had refunded all the fraudulent 
transactions.
Miss C was still unhappy. She said that as well as many messages, which she could no 
longer access, shed also had quite a lot of phone conversations. In these, shed been told 
numerous times that it was an error, and shed have a clear balance after seven days, which 
never happened. She said she was told theyd put the credit on the old account number, 
which had been changed to a new number after the fraud.
Miss C said that one of the screenshots said that to clear her £2,670.88 balance, shed have 
to pay £781.88, which she did, but this left £1,889 which was the exact amount of the fraud. 
Miss C said shed been told it would be put right, but it never was. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Miss C wants to be sure that the fraudulent transactions have been 
credited back to her account. Ive looked carefully at her statements, and also at the 
screenshots she was able to send us. Miss C told us she wasnt able to send all the 
messages shed had because theyd been deleted after 90 days, and I dont have call 
recordings, but Ive looked at what we do have.
The statements reflect the official record of whats happened, including the balance. The 
statement dated 6 May, which covers the three fraudulent transactions and other April 
transactions, is the key one. This shows the balance at the end of the previous statement  
before any fraudulent transactions -  was £2,670.88. 
It then shows the transactions, which includes the three fraudulent transactions, which Ive 
set out above, on 6, 9 and 11 April. The statement shows that each one of these was 
refunded on the same day, with CR for credit next to the refunds. 
At the end of the statement, theres a balance of £2,369.85. This consists of:
- Miss Cs pre-fraud balance of £2,670.88;
- plus new spend by Miss C which totalled £198.97;
- minus a £500 payment which Miss C made to the account.
That comes to £2,369.85. So the balance is correct, and no part of that outstanding balance 
consists of the three fraudulent April transactions. The statements show that Barclays did 
refund all three fraudulent transactions in full. 
Miss C told us that she had different information from calls and messages. Ive looked at the 
screenshots she sent us. One, dated 29 July 2020, says that the adviser sees what has 
happened and that shed contacted the refunds team to get it rectified. Another, undated, 
screenshot shows the 6 April balance  before the frauds  of £2,670.88. This says Youve 
paid £500To clear your £2,670.88 balance, pay another £281.88 by 5 May. 
The first screenshot seems to indicate that there was some sort of problem with what was 
showing online  though that looks as if it had been sorted out by the time of the final 
response in September 2020. And the second screenshot was confusing. As her balance 
was £2,670.88 on 6 April, I cant see how paying £500 and £281.88 would have cleared that 
figure. But, importantly, the £2,670.88 balance figure quoted was the figure on 6 April  - so it 
was before the three frauds. So whatever the problem with the second screenshot, it cant 
be to do with the frauds, because it talks about Miss Cs balance before the frauds 
happened.
I realise that this has been worrying for Miss C. But its the statements, rather than the other 
information, which show the true position, and as Ive explained, these show that Barclays 
did refund her in full for the three disputed transactions. Interest looks to have been charged 
correctly, and her balance therefore appears to be correct.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, because I find that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC did refund Miss C for the three fraudulent transactions.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman