DRN-2881074
The complaint
Mrs K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) didnt provide an annual 
service as set out in the home care policy. Shes also unhappy with the service they 
provided.
What happened
Mrs K has had a home care policy with British Gas since 2016. The policy provides cover for 
the boiler, controls and central heating on a service and repair basis. An annual boiler 
service is also included.
British Gas say they serviced the boiler in 2016, 2017 and 2018 but failed to service it 
between April 2019 and April 2020. Mrs K has disputed they serviced it in 2016 also. A 
service was scheduled for May 2020 but cancelled in April 2020 due to the pandemic.
 
Mrs K complained to British Gas about this in August 2020 and as she didnt receive a 
response, she made further contact in October and November 2020. British Gas responded 
to the concerns in March 2021. They apologised for the level of service provided and 
accepted they hadnt serviced the boiler between April 2019 and April 2020. They provided 
dates of when services had taken place each contractual year including 2016 and they 
explained why the appointment in May 2020 had to be cancelled. As a gesture of goodwill, 
they awarded Mrs K £200.
 
Mrs K didnt feel this was enough to compensate for the missed boiler service or poor 
service received. So, she referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
it, she felt British Gas had done what they needed to  which was to send three reminders to 
Mrs K for her to book in an annual service and overall felt £200 was fair in the 
circumstances, so she didnt ask them to do anything more. But as Mrs K remained unhappy 
it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Up until April 2019 British Gas provided an annual service in line with the terms of the policy 
so Ive focused on the events from this point. I appreciate Mrs K had disputed this but based 
on the information provided it seems more likely than not that a service in 2016 did take 
place. As British Gas have provided a specific date for the service in question and their 
system notes match this.
British Gas have accepted they havent provided an annual service for April 2019- 2020 and 
that they havent provided the level of customer service expected. So, I need to decide if 
theyve done enough to put things right.
The policy terms set out the agreement between British Gas and Mrs K. In reference to the 
annual service, the policy states:
Well send you or your authorised contact an email, letter, text message or call you 
to arrange your annual service. Well try to contact you up to three times. If we dont 
hear back from you after the third time or you are not at the property when our 
engineer visits, we wont try again and wont refund the cost of the missed annual 
service. You can still contact us at any time to book it.
Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service 
visit.
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), 
we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
So British Gas have been clear that they will send a reminder for the customer to book in the 
annual service. I cant say for sure what had happened prior to April 2019 and I appreciate 
Mrs K may have received a different service at this time such as automated visits. However, 
Im satisfied the terms are clear.
 
I have seen copies of the reminder information sent to Mrs K and they match the relevant 
timeframe and are addressed to the same address we hold on file. And whilst I cant say for 
sure if Mrs K received them, Im satisfied that British Gas did send the reminders, so Mrs K 
was given notice that an annual service was due. Based on this, I think British Gas have 
complied with the terms here.
 
Mrs K has said British Gas offered to re-schedule the missed service, but this never came to 
fruition despite her chasers. The pandemic caused significant disruption to everyone 
including businesses. Between March and May 2020, the government advised people not to 
enter each others homes except in certain circumstances, such as emergency situations. 
This applied to both individuals and businesses. So, I can understand why British Gas 
cancelled the appointment due in May 2020, it would have been irresponsible for British Gas 
to operate against government advice. And as an annual service isnt an emergency, I cant 
say British Gas were wrong not to provide a service at this time.
When Mrs K raised her concerns with British Gas it took some time for them to respond. This 
must have been frustrating and I can understand the added distress as she had to chase 
them a few times before receiving a response to her complaint some months later.
To resolve things British Gas apologised and issued a cheque for £200. Having seen the 
breakdown of this award I can see they have accounted for the missed service, valued at 
£65.
 
Mrs K feels British Gas should refund her £1000. Whilst I agree that British Gas have made 
some errors Mrs K has had use of the full policy features prior to April 2019. And even 
though a service wasnt carried out past this point, she did benefit from other features of the 
policy such as cover for the boiler and central heating if something went wrong up until the 
policy was cancelled.
Considering this and the overall impact, I think the £200 awarded by British Gas is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances so Im not going to ask them to do anything more. I 
appreciate this will be disappointing news for Mrs K but she has benefited from the additional 
cover the policy provides and been refunded for the missed service. The award also 
compensates for the poor service provided. 
My final decisionBritish Gas Insurance Limited has already awarded £200 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in the circumstances.
My decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mrs K £200 if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman