DRN-3836059
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc used incorrect details for a transfer to an overseas 
account and less money was refunded because of the exchange rate.
What happened
Mr D says he called TSB on 26 July 2022 to transfer £15,491.47 to an Australian bank 
account as he didnt think he could do it via internet banking. He says the funds were 
refunded because TSB used incorrect bank details, but only £14,293.73 was returned on 3 
August 2022 due to the exchange rate difference. Mr D then says he visited his local branch 
to complain and arranged for the payment to be made again. He says this time the payment 
cost him £15,310.51, but he has lost out on £1,197.74 due to TSBs error.
TSB says that some of the bank details provided by Mr D were incorrect and when the 
money was returned it was net of charges that had been applied and was affected by 
interest rate fluctuations. It says the amount refunded was correct on this basis.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that 
although TSB talked Mr D through how to make the transaction online, he entered the details 
himself. She said that, as she was satisfied TSB did not make the initial error, she couldnt 
fairly suggest it refunded Mr D.
Mr D responded to say, in summary, that the number he entered into the account number 
field was the receiving partys Australian Company Number (ACN). He said the TSB 
employee advised him that was the number he should enter. Mr D adds that the operative he 
spoke to was clearly inexperienced and she said herself that shed never done such a 
transfer before but her more specialist colleagues were unavailable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr D called TSB, it was explained to him that the customer service agent could not 
process the transaction for him, but she could talk him through how to set up the transaction 
himself via internet banking.
It is clear to me that it is vital to understand what was discussed on the call and to establish 
whether TSB should take ownership for the incorrect information that was entered into the 
system initially. As the reason for the funds being returned was purely down to the incorrect 
account number being entered, Ive listened to the call in detail with regard to this element.
Mr D was on the phone for around 16 minutes with the customer service agent who talked 
him through the transaction. Within that call I have transcribed all the parts of the 
conversation that were relevant to the account number:
Before Mr D logs in to make the payment:
TSB: So you need the following: SWIFT code, IBAN or account number (I think its the 
account number in Australia)
More discussion.
Mr D: Ive got an ABN code, Ive got an account number.
Whilst Mr D is filling in the details:
Mr D: And then its looking for IBAN, bank account number.
TSB: It will be an account number cos [sic] its going to Australia. Only certain countries use 
the IBAN.
Mr D: Right, OK. So Ive got their account number details. Is that the one thats going in 
there?
TSB: Yeah, thatll be the receiving company or persons details.
Mr D: So presumably its just that bank account number. They dont have sort codes or 
anything like that.
TSB: No, its just the account number that will obviously be applicable in this box.
Mr D: Let me just write this down cos [sic] its a long number.
(Mr D continues to fill in the details online and there is a discussion about pressing Continue)
TSB: What details have you filled in so far?
Mr D: Ive filled in the recipients bank address, their [sic] bank account number of the people 
I want to pay, their name, their address.
So, I cant agree that TSB advised Mr D to enter the ACN code and, indeed, I considered the 
customer service agent was helpful and knowledgeable. She also did not say during that call 
that shed never done similar transactions, nor that specialist colleagues were unavailable.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration when the money was refunded due to the wrong account 
number, but based on the evidence I have heard, I cant conclude it was a TSB error. Im 
also satisfied that no error was made when deductions were made due to charges and 
exchange rate differences.
In summary, I dont find TSB needs to do anything further with regard to this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman