DRN-3690125
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Sovereign Private Clients 
Limited (Sovereign) in 2017 to transfer the value of her three personal pension plans 
(PPPs) and safeguarded benefits in two defined benefits pension schemes (DB schemes) 
to a new PPP.
Mrs M is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative). 
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both the Representative and Sovereign. I dont intend to 
repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
During her working life, Mrs M had built up benefits in five different pension arrangements. In 
January 2017, she met a representative of Sovereign to discuss her pension planning. A fact 
find document was completed which recorded details about Mrs Ms personal and financial 
circumstances, summarised as follows:
She was 47, in good health, married and had three financially dependent children 
aged between 3 and 9. She hoped to retire at her State pension age of 67;
She was a homemaker in receipt of State benefits of £230 per month;
Other than her five existing pension arrangements at the centre of this complaint, her 
only other asset was a 50% share of the marital home valued at £130,000;
She and her husband had an outstanding repayment mortgage of £47,000 on the 
marital home. She didnt have any other liabilities;
Her risk profile was recorded as 4 out of 10, where 1 was low risk and 10 high risk; 
She had limited investment experience which had been gained from investing in the 
three PPPs at the centre of this complaint; and
In terms of her pension planning objectives, she wanted to consolidate her five 
existing pension arrangements into a single plan to reduce administration, to 
maximise the death benefits for her family in the event of her early death and to 
generate improved investment returns. 
Sovereign recommended that Mrs M transfer the value of her five existing pension 
arrangements into a new PPP. She accepted the recommendation. This resulted in a total 
amount of about £106,820 being transferred to the new PPP, as follows:
Scheme type Approximate transfer value paid into new PPP
DB scheme £42,946
DB scheme £15,464
PPP £23,303
PPP £21,208
PPP £3,899
Based on the terms and conditions signed by Mrs M, the costs and charges associated with 
Sovereigns recommendation were as follows:
Initial charge
£5,270  initial advice fee
Ongoing annual charges based on the new PPP fund value
1%  ongoing advice charge
0.65%  PPP investment fee
0.4%  PPP annual management charge 
This complaint
In March 2021, on behalf of Mrs M, the Representative complained to Sovereign about the 
suitability of the advice it provided to her in 2017. In the Representatives view, Sovereign 
had failed to act in Mrs Ms best interests when it recommended the transfer which had 
resulted in her suffering a financial loss. To put things right, it requested that Sovereign pay 
compensation to Mrs M.
Sovereign didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Our investigator requested information from Sovereign regarding the recommendation it had 
provided to Mrs M in 2017. While Sovereign provided a copy of the completed fact find 
document, risk profiler and some other documents, it failed, despite multiple chasers, to 
provide a copy of its suitability report setting out the reasons for its recommendation or 
details of any transfer analysis it had carried out. Based on the limited evidence available, 
our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. This was because it 
couldnt be shown that relinquishing benefits in the two DB schemes or switching the value 
of three existing PPPs into a new PPP was in Mrs Ms best interests. To put things right, our 
investigator recommended that Sovereign carry out a redress calculation and pay any 
redress due to Mrs M on the basis that she would be a basic rate income taxpayer in 
retirement. Our investigator explained to Sovereign that it should calculate redress in two 
steps:
Step 1  for the two DB schemes, carry out a loss assessment in line with the FCAs 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers; and
Step 2  for the three PPPs, carry out a fund value comparison between the 
performance of the new PPP and a benchmark (50% FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index and 50% average rate from fixed rate bonds).
The Representative accepted our investigators assessment and recommended remedy. It 
subsequently confirmed that Mrs M preferred to wait for the outcome of the FCAs 
consultation announced on 2 August 2022 before redress is calculated and settled by 
Sovereign. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with any changes expected to be 
implemented in early 2023.Sovereign told our investigator that it didnt agree with her assessment and requested the 
matter be referred to an ombudsman for review. Sovereign didnt explain why it disagreed or 
provide any additional evidence for the ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single 
point raised by the Representative and Sovereign. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Sovereign was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided the 
recommendation to Mrs M. This meant that when it advised her it was required to adhere to 
the suitability rules and guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section 
in the FCAs Handbook. In assessing the suitability of Sovereigns recommendation, its 
necessary for me to have due regard to these rules and guidance.
Primarily, Sovereign was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mrs M.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when Sovereign provided its recommendation 
to Mrs M were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that 
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment 
objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements 
in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its 
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a 
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mrs Ms case  these were contained in                     
COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients 
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers 
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, 
businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the existing DB 
scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded benefits 
into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests. 
In addition to the requirements set out in COBS 9 and COBS 19, the regulator issued a 
report in December 2008 titled Quality of advice on pension switching. The report 
summarised the findings of the regulators thematic review on the quality of advice given to 
customers since pensions A-day on 6 April 2006 to switch the value of their pensions into a 
new PPP. The regulator stated: 
We assessed advice as unsuitable when the outcome was the customer switching into one 
of the following: 
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence that this option was 
needed).
A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder 
pension would have met the customers needs.
A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different pension schemes, but 
where the extra cost was not explained or justified to the customer.
A new pension and the customer had lost benefits from their ceding pension (for 
example, guaranteed annuity rates) without these being explained or justified.
A pension that did not match the customers attitude to risk and personal 
circumstances.
A pension where there was the need for ongoing advice, but this had not been 
explained, or offered, or put in place.
Was Sovereigns recommendation suitable?
Sovereign recorded that Mrs Ms had three main objectives:
Consolidation: to consolidate her five existing pension arrangements into a single 
plan to reduce administration;
Death benefits: to maximise the death benefits for her family in the event of her 
early death; and 
Investment returns: to generate improved investment returns.
Sovereign recommended that Mrs M transfer the value of her five existing pension 
arrangements into a new PPP to achieve these objectives. 
Mrs M was then 47, in good health, married and had three financially dependent children 
aged between 3 and 9. She hoped to retire at her State pension age of 67. She was a 
homemaker in receipt of State benefits of £230 per month. Given her employment status and 
the age of her children, I think its fair to say she had limited scope to build up additional 
pension provision in the foreseeable future and so shed be heavily reliant on the value of 
these benefits in addition to her State pension to support her standard of living in retirement. 
Other than her pension arrangements at the centre of this complaint, she didnt have any 
other investments or savings. She had limited investment experience. She had a 
low/medium risk profile and limited capacity for loss. All these factors strongly suggest to me 
that Mrs M shouldve been advised to retain her safeguarded benefits in the two DB 
schemes and to leave the three existing PPPs where they were.
In response to this services information request, Sovereign provided limited documents. 
Despite multiple chasers, it failed to provide a copy of its suitability report setting out the 
reasons for its recommendation or details of any transfer analysis it had carried out. It was a 
regulatory requirement for Sovereign to prepare a suitability report and to carry out 
appropriate transfer analysis. The failure to provide these key documents was explicitly 
mentioned by our investigator in her assessment when she recommended that this 
complaint should be upheld. So Sovereign was made aware how important these documents 
were in helping this service carry out an independent investigation into the suitability of its 
recommendation. When Sovereign told our investigator that he disagreed with her assessment it didnt explain why. And it didnt provide any additional evidence or explain why 
it was unable to do so.
Im satisfied that this service has given Sovereign adequate time and opportunity to provide 
additional documentary evidence including a copy of its suitability report and details of any 
transfer analysis it carried out. Under COBS 9.5.2R, Sovereign had a regulatory duty to 
retain its records relating to suitability indefinitely for the part of its recommendation for the 
two DB schemes and for at least five years for the part relating to the three PPPs. So it 
should still have these records. Its unclear to me why it hasnt been able to provide the 
information requested by this service  it hasnt provided any explanation. Because of this, I 
think its fair to say that Sovereign has failed to cooperate fully with this service.
Our investigator asked Mrs M if she had retained any documents such as a suitability report 
or transfer analysis report, but she hasnt been able to provide any documents either. 
This means that Im required to reach on a final decision on this case based on the limited 
available evidence. Ive set out my findings below under separate headings.
Consolidation
Just because Mrs M may have been attracted to the idea of consolidating her five existing 
pension arrangements into a single plan to reduce her administration, it didnt mean she 
needed to do so or that Sovereign shouldve recommended it. It was for Sovereign to 
demonstrate that it was suitable and in Mrs Ms best interests to do this. 
It's not in dispute that the consolidation into a new PPP led to Mrs M relinquishing valuable 
guarantees under the two DB schemes. I havent seen any evidence that Sovereign 
complied with the FCAs requirements under COBS 19.1.2R in connection with this. And it 
may have been the case that switching the three PPPs to a new PPP led to additional costs 
or the loss of valuable features without good reason  but since Sovereign hasnt provided 
details of any transfer analysis it carried out, its impossible to say. Based on what Ive seen, 
Im not satisfied it was suitable for Mrs M to consolidate her five existing pension 
arrangements into a new PPP or that it was in her best interests to do so to achieve her 
objective of reduced administration.
Death benefits 
Like most individuals, I can understand that Mrs M may have wanted to maximise death 
benefits for her family in the event of her early death. 
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could 
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump sum or income 
drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if death occurred 
under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the 
beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the 
transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mrs M could draw any benefits from 55 onwards, 
the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to 
the simple fact she couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at least eight years.
But Mrs M was recorded as being in good health. So she could expect normal life 
expectancy into her 80s. As noted above, its my view that shed be heavily reliant on the 
value of her pension benefits at the centre of this complaint to support her standard of living 
in retirement. So it was likely that withdrawing money from these benefits from 67 onwards in 
line with her preferred retirement age would mean that the size of the fund remaining in later 
years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected.Its my view that Mrs M had no health issues at the time Sovereign advised her which might 
reasonably have prompted her to relinquish the guarantees under the two DB schemes for 
the sake of an enhanced safety net for her family. And as for the three existing PPPs, on 
death they likely wouldve paid a lump sum equivalent to the fund value  the same as the 
recommended PPP. So there wasnt any difference in the format of death benefits across 
the PPPs.
So, taking all of the above into account, Im not convinced there was any real merit in Mrs M 
transferring to a new PPP at that time to provide improved death benefits. Theres simply no 
evidence that this was required for Mrs Ms family at the time.
Investment returns
It appears that the transfer to the new PPP led to Mrs M incurring an initial advice fee of 
about £5,270 and total ongoing annual charges of 2.05%, the cost of which would be 
deduced from her PPP. Given that Mrs M was meant to invest in the new PPP on a 
low/medium risk basis in line with her recorded risk profile, I think, in the absence of any 
transfer analysis information, the initial and ongoing annual charges wouldve likely 
materially impacted the opportunity for improved investment returns over and above the five 
existing pension arrangements. 
Had Mrs M retained her safeguarded benefits in the two DB schemes she wouldnt have had 
to worry about investment performance or incurred any ongoing costs. As for the three 
existing PPPs, its unclear what the ongoing charges were for these plans since Sovereign 
hasnt provided to this service details of any transfer analysis it carried out at the time. 
Therefore, I havent seen any evidence to show that the investment returns were likely to be 
better under the recommended PPP compared to the existing pension arrangements.
If properly informed, would Mrs M have transferred anyway? 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me Sovereign complied with the FCAs rules 
under COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 9.2.2R and COBS 19.1.2R, or followed its suggested guidance 
under COBS 19.1.6G, COBS 19.1.7G and COBS 19.1.8G. As a result, its my view that 
suitability cannot be demonstrated and so its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint. 
In potential mitigation of Sovereigns advice, Ive also thought about whether Mrs M, if placed 
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of her five 
existing pension arrangements to the new PPP. This was a complex transaction involving 
many factors which Mrs M, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view that she 
was heavily reliant on Sovereign, as the professional party in the transaction, to take those 
factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice. Given Mrs Ms reliance on 
Sovereign to provide expert advice, I think its unlikely, on balance, she wouldve transferred 
against its advice had it advised her to retain her benefits in the two DB schemes and leave 
her three existing PPPs where they were, as I think it ought to have done based on the 
available evidence.
Putting things right
Since Sovereigns recommendation involved advice on safeguarded benefits in two DB 
schemes and defined contributions in three PPPs, redress will need to be calculated in two 
steps, as previously mentioned by our investigator.
Step 1  assessing redress for the relinquished benefits under the two DB schemes On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 
with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
arent necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where it considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to their 
customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place. But 
until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Our investigator previously asked Mrs M whether she preferred any redress to be calculated 
now in line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. 
She confirmed, via her Representative, that she would like to wait for the outcome of the 
consultation before redress is calculated and settled. I consider its fair that Sovereign waits 
for the outcome of the consultation to settle this complaint.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Sovereign to put Mrs M, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider she wouldve 
retained her safeguarded benefits in the two DB schemes.
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still aims to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mrs M.
I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance or rules to come 
into effect to determine this complaint. 
Sovereign must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as 
soon as any new guidance and rules come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any 
due compensation now in line with FG17/9).
In accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance and rules come into effect.
Step 2  assessing redress for the three PPPs
My aim is that Mrs M should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if shed been given suitable advice. I take the view that Mrs M wouldve 
invested differently under the three PPPs. Its not possible to say precisely what she 
wouldve done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Sovereign must compare the performance of Mrs M's PPP 
that it recommended with that of the benchmark shown below. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual value theres a loss and compensation is payable. Sovereign should add interest as set out 
below.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
New PPPStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of Sovereign 
receiving Mrs 
M's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from Mrs Ms PPP at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the PPP wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return using 
the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Sovereign 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the PPP should be added to the fair value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It doesnt mean that Mrs M wouldve invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs M couldve obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
If the redress calculation in Steps 1 and 2 above demonstrates a loss, the compensation 
should, if possible, be paid into Mrs Ms PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to her likely income tax rate 
in retirement  which Ive decided is likely to be 20%, in line with our investigators previous 
assumption. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mrs M within 90 days of the 
date any changes to DB pension transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect 
and Sovereign has received notification of Mrs Ms acceptance of this final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date any changes to DB pension transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect 
to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Sovereign to pay 
Mrs M.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sovereign deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. Sovereign should give Mrs M a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Sovereign should pay Mrs M the amount 
produced by the calculations  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest on the 
amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculations of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Sovereign pays Mrs M the balance plus any interest 
on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It doesnt bind Sovereign. Its 
unlikely that Mrs M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. She may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
The loss assessment calculation should be provided to Mrs Ms Representative in an easy to 
understand format.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sovereign Private Clients Limited must redress Mrs M as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman