DRN-2425661
The complaint
Mrs B makes a number of complaints about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
following delays in accessing telephone banking.
What happened
Mrs B says she waited about 30 minutes to make a transfer via NatWests telephone 
banking service and didnt receive a promised call back. She says the call back resulted in a 
further waiting time and also complains that her complaint wasnt registered when it ought to 
have been. Mrs B says she was offered £15 compensation, but that amount isnt enough.
NatWest upheld Mrs Bs complaint in part and apologised for how it handled part of it. It gave 
Mrs B an explanation about what took place and its procedure for call backs and also paid 
her £15 compensation.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought NatWest had dealt fairly with 
it by paying a fair and reasonable amount of compensation and by apologising for part of the 
complaint.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and says the compensation isnt sufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NatWest has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by providing Mrs B a full and detailed explanation about what took place and 
explaining how it deals with call backs. Im also satisfied it has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount and apologised for the part of the complaint it upheld.
I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Mrs B hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place and I 
dont think she suffered any distress. I accept that she was caused some inconvenience in 
having to log the complaint again and in not receiving a call back. But I think that NatWest 
has fairly apologised for that and that it did carry out the intended transaction. I dont think it 
was the transaction that took time to sort out, but the subsequent complaint Mrs B wished to 
raise.
Overall, I dont think what took place would have caused significant inconvenience and I 
have explained that I dont think Mrs B suffered any financial loss. I think NatWest has fairly 
explained to Mrs B that she could consider alternative methods of banking to avoid waiting 
times. For those reasons I cant fairly order NatWest to increase the compensation amount it 
has paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman