DRN-4332471
The complaint
Mr S complains WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) hasnt treated him fairly when he made a 
claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
Any reference to WDP includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr S has a mobile phone insurance policy which is underwritten by WDP. 
In February 2023, he contacted WDP to make a claim for accidental damage to his 
phone. Mr S reported that his phones screen was cracked, and that the device 
wasnt charging properly. But the claim didnt proceed as Mr S didnt pay the excess.  
Later, in April, Mr S contacted WDP to make another claim as he said there was a 
fault with his phone  he said the software wasnt functioning properly. Mr S said he 
didnt consider the cracked screen to be connected to the software issues, and so 
thought he ought to be covered by the manufacturers warranty. 
WDPs agent advised that due to the damaged screen the manufacturers warranty 
would be void, but that the damage was covered under his mobile insurance policy. 
So, Mr S paid the claims excess fee. WDP accepted the claim and sent him a 
replacement device the following day. 
Mr S later complained to WDP saying he wanted the original device tested to see if 
the software fault was connected to the cracked screen, as even though the screen 
was damaged, hed been able to use it until the software issues started. He added 
that if the damage wasnt connected, the excess hed paid should be refunded. 
In response WDP said it was satisfied it had handled Mr S claim fairly and that an 
excess was applicable. It said it couldnt test Mr S phone to see if the software fault 
was connected to the cracked screen, but that if he returned the replacement device, 
it could reverse the claim (including refunding the excess) and Mr S could arrange for 
his damaged device to be tested under the manufacturers warranty. 
Mr S brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but didnt 
uphold it. Because Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why. 
First, its important to clarify that Im only concerned with the actions of WDP and 
whether it handled Mr S claim fairly under his mobile phone insurance policy. The 
manufacturer warranty is administered by another company and is therefore, outside 
the scope of this complaint. 
The policy document clearly says an excess applies when a claim is made. Mr S has 
made a claim for damage under the policy, and so, Im satisfied him having to pay an 
excess was in line with the policy terms and conditions.  
The policy says any fault that happens within the manufacturers warranty period 
(where the manufacturer covers you against certain operating failure) isnt covered. 
But, here, as Mr S phone was damaged, the warranty was void. And so, Im satisfied 
it was reasonable for WDP to advise Mr S that he could make a claim for damage 
under his mobile phone insurance policy  but that an excess would apply.  
Whilst Mr S might consider the software fault to be unrelated to the damaged screen 
 and that testing the device would prove this - WDP has explained it cant test the 
device because thats to do with the manufacturers warranty  which its not 
responsible for. It has however, offered to reverse the claim and refund the excess if 
Mr S returns the replacement device to it so he can have his original device tested 
under the manufacturer warranty. And this seems a reasonable option to me. So, Ill 
leave it with Mr S to decide whether he wants to.   
Whilst I appreciate Mr S might have found it confusing as to which business was 
dealing with the insurance claim and the manufacturers warranty, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me WDP hasnt treated Mr S fairly whilst handling his claim and 
so, I dont consider compensation to be warranted here. 
If Mr S has concerns about being charged a fee for not returning his original device 
within the time frame given by WDP, hed need to raise this with the business before 
this Service can investigate it. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman