DRN-3234570
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) mis-sold them a 
single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a hire 
purchase agreement to finance buying a car.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a hire purchase agreement with First Response in February 2011. At
the same time they were sold a PPI policy which would have covered the repayments on
their hire purchase agreement for an unlimited period until the agreement was paid off if Mr
S wasnt able to work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. It also
would have paid off the balance of the agreement if Mr S died.
Mr and Mrs S say that they didnt agree to buy the PPI and that it was added without their
knowledge or consent; that the cost wasnt explained to them and that they didnt need it.
They also complain that they werent told about the payment of excessive commission.
The adjudicator who first looked at Mr and Mrs Ss case thought their complaint should be
upheld. First Response disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
When I reviewed the case, I disagreed with the adjudicators view. I issued a provisional 
decision not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and invited all parties to provide any 
response or comment before I made my final decision. 
No response was received from any party. For that reason, I do not consider that my 
provisional decision should change. My final decision is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, I have decided not
to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
As explained, the adjudicator thought that this complaint should be upheld. This was
because the adjudicator didnt think that First Response had shown that Mr and Mrs S were
given a fair choice about buying it and because they thought the costs werent made clear.
The initial sale of the hire purchase agreement and the PPI took place over the phone. First
Response explained that Mr and Mrs S would have been given quotes with and without the
PPI which made it clear the PPI was optional. There isnt a copy of the call recording, which
isnt surprising over 10 years later, so I cant know for sure that this happened. But I think its
more likely than not that it did. I say this because the paperwork which was sent to the car
dealership for Mr and Mrs S to sign later described the PPI as optional policy of payment
protection insurance.
There appears to have been some confusion about the nature of the paperwork. First
Response provided this service with a full unsigned copy of the agreement and also
the pages that Mr and Mrs S signed from the agreement, which had been returned by fax
from the car dealership when Mr and Mrs S went to finalise the agreement and arrange
collection of the car.
Our adjudicator thought that because the full agreement hadnt been faxed back then this
meant Mr and Mrs S hadnt seen the full agreement before signing it. I disagree. I think it is
entirely to be expected that only the relevant signed pages were returned to First Response
by the dealership  First Response didnt need to have another copy of the generic parts of
their own credit agreement. I am satisfied that on the balance of probabilities Mr and Mrs S
saw the whole agreement that they signed. The agreement was numbered from one to 17
and I think if theyd only been presented with the three signature pages (pages six, 12 and
15) they would have noticed this and queried it. While Mr and Mrs S did not sign separately
for the PPI they completed the finance agreement three days before they were due to collect
the vehicle, so if they decided that they didnt want the PPI after all, they could have asked
for a new credit agreement.
The adjudicator also thought that the costs hadnt been clearly disclosed. Ive already said
that I think its likely that Mr and Mrs S were given quotes for the agreement with and without
the insurance. But I can also see that the full agreement set out all the costs clearly. While
the interest costs for the both of the insurances that Mr and Mrs S bought were not clearly
presented because it relied on Mr and Mrs S subtracting the total cost of the policies from
the cost without the interest, the total amount of interest payable each month was small. I
dont think even if the monthly cost of the interest on the policy had been set out separately
that it would have made a difference to Mr and Mrs Ss decision to buy it.
As I have not upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint on these grounds Ive gone on to look at
the rest of the sale to decide whether theres another reason to uphold their complaint of
mis-sale.
It seems that First Response Finance recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S. This means
it had an obligation to ensure that the policy met their needs and was suitable for them.
Looking at Mr Ss circumstances at the time (because it was Mr S that the policy covered) I
think that it did. I say this because Mr S had limited sick pay and he hasnt told us about any
other means he had to meet his repayments if hed not been able to work due to an
accident, sickness or redundancy. So, I think he had a need for the policy. I also havent
seen anything to suggest the police wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs S. Mr S wasnt affected
by any of the main exclusions such as those for existing medical conditions or certain types
of employment - he didnt have an existing medical condition and he was in permanent
employment.
Although the policy was paid for by a single premium and may not have resulted in them
receiving a pro-rata refund of the premium if they cancelled it, I havent seen any evidence to
suggest that this was something they intended to do at the time they took out the PPI.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and whether First
Response Finance treated them unfairly.
First Response Finance has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss PPI was less
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how First Response Finance
has been working this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs
Ss commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it
needed to tell them about the commission  so I dont think First Response Finance treated
them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs S
paid for the PPI.I do not think Mr and Mrs S were mis-sold the policy by First Response Finance.
My final decision
I do not think that Mr and Mrs S were mis-sold the PPI policy, so I do not uphold their 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman