DRN-2406636
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain Norton Insurance Brokers Ltd (Norton) gave them incorrect contact 
details when they needed to claim on their home insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought their home insurance policy through Norton in March 2020.
On 26 July 2020, they emailed Norton and asked for contact details to make a claim 
for water leak. Mr P followed this up with two phone calls to Norton on 27 July as 
hed been unable to register the claim  Norton had provided incorrect contact details 
on each occasion.    
Mr and Mrs P complained to Norton, saying they urgently needed to make a claim 
but had spent around six hours speaking to different companies and being told they 
didnt have a policy with them. 
Norton accepted it had provided incorrect contact details on multiple occasions and 
apologised to Mr and Mrs P for the distress this had caused. It provided correct 
information this time and also re-sent the policy documents which included the 
contact details.
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to us as they remained unhappy with the 
service theyd received from Norton.
Our investigator concluded Nortons apology didnt go far enough in recognising the 
impact its mistake had on Mr and Mrs P. She recommended £75 compensation.
Norton accepted the investigators findings, but Mr and Mrs P didnt. Theyve said 
they dont believe the compensation recommended is enough. Mr and Mrs P also 
state they didnt receive the full policy documents when they bought the policy. So, 
they didnt have the contact information our investigator highlighted in the policy 
wording to hand at the time of making the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I need to consider whether Nortons apology is enough in the circumstances. If I think 
it isnt, I need to decide on fair compensation.
Theres no dispute Norton provided incorrect information to Mr and Mrs P when they 
made enquiries in July 2020. But I think the impact of Nortons actions was greater 
than just a minor inconvenience or upset. In addition to the worry of being told they 
didnt have an insurance policy in place when they rang the numbers it provided, 
Mr and Mrs P could have also avoided unnecessary time spent on speaking to 
different companies. So, I dont consider an apology alone to be enough. 
When making an award for distress and/or inconvenience, I need to take into account 
the impact the act or omission had. 
Ive considered whether Nortons mistake had a direct impact on Mr and Mrs Ps 
claim. There was some delay in the insurers agent being notified of the claim. 
Although it was avoidable, Im satisfied the delay didnt impact the insurers 
assessment of the claim. Taking this and the timeline of events into account, 
I consider £75 to be a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr and Mrs P.
Ive also looked into Mr and Mrs Ps concerns about not receiving the full 
documentation when they bought the policy. Theyve said they consider recorded 
delivery to be the only way to accept these were sent. As is the case here, not all 
businesses send post by recorded delivery. In such situations I expect a business to 
provide other evidence, such as system screen shots showing information was sent. 
Nortons provided screen shots which show full policy documents were posted out to 
Mr and Mrs P on 30 March 2020. Looking at the available information Im satisfied, 
on balance, the documents were sent.
Overall, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint, Norton Insurance Brokers Ltd should pay £75 compensation to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman