DRN-1641464
 
Complaint
Miss W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Miss W was sold a PPI policy in connection with a credit card she took out in 1994. 
The policy would have cost no more than 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance 
and would have paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance if Miss W was off work sick or 
lost her job for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. Miss W didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. I will now explain why.
Based on the information provided by Miss W, I havent seen anything to indicate she 
wouldnt have been eligible for the PPI.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Miss W that the PPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Miss W is adamant she would not have agreed to 
take PPI.
In the absence of any evidence to suggest otherwise, I think its likely that the PPI would 
have been sold at the same time as Miss W took out the credit card. Given the length of time 
since the sale, its understandable that Lloyds no longer have a copy of Miss Ws PPI 
application form so I cant see how PPI was presented during the sale. Equally its 
understandable that Miss W no longer has a strong recollection of what actually happened 
during the sale. 
But what this does mean is that I dont have sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that 
its more likely that Lloyds didnt make it clear to Miss W that the policy was optional and that 
Miss W didnt agree to take it out  especially given that I have seen other application forms 
from around the time of the sale where the optional nature was set out clearly and PPI 
wouldnt have been applied to the account without consent.Lloyds cant confirm how the policy was sold. So to be fair to Miss W they have treated this 
as an advised sale. This means that Lloyds would have had to take adequate steps to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for Miss W. They wouldnt have needed to do this if they treated 
it as a non-advised sale. Based on the information I have, I think the PPI was suitable for 
Miss W. I say this because:
 
Miss W has told us she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she was off work 
sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this pay and for a longer period of 
time. It would also have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Miss W may have 
been entitled to. 
 
I appreciate what Miss W says about her family support. However, this support 
couldnt be guaranteed and wouldnt have made the policy unsuitable for Miss W. 
Ultimately the repayments were Miss Ws responsibility alone.
 
Miss W didnt appear to have been affected by the main restrictions and exclusions in 
the policy such that it wouldve been difficult for her to make a successful claim under 
the policy. For example, those relating to certain medical conditions and working 
arrangements. 
 
I havent seen anything which suggests the PPI was unaffordable to Miss W. 
 
Miss W couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
 
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Miss W, Lloyds also had to give Miss W clear 
enough information so that she could decide for herself if the PPI was right for her. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Miss W wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. This in 
itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put Miss W off taking the PPI out.
And I dont think better information wouldve put Miss W off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was right for her.
So I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Miss W this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman