DRN-3760337
Complaint
Ms H has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says that the loan was irresponsibly lent.
Background
118 118 Money provided Ms H with a first loan for £2,500.00 in November 2021. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £122. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms H and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms H unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Ms Hs complaint be upheld. Ms H disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Hs complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms H could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Ms H with a loan for £2,500.00 in November 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 36 instalments of just under £122. 118 118 Money says it agreed to         
Ms Hs application after she provided details of her monthly income and some information on 
her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried 
out and all of this information showed Ms H could to comfortably make the repayments she 
was committing to. On the other hand, Ms H has said she was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms H and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided the output of Ms Hs 
application. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Ms H had had historic difficulties 
with credit  there were existing defaults from a few years previous. Ms Hs commitments at 
the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Ms Hs 
debt total at the time of the applications was reasonable in comparison to her income too. 
I accept that Ms Hs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. Equally I accept that if 
118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Ms H appears to be saying it should have 
 such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it may 
have reached a different answer, although weve not been provided with this information. 
But the key here is that 118 118 Money wasnt providing Ms H with a mortgage. It was 
providing a loan for a relatively small sum. Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances 
here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended further  especially where we havent been provided with 
anything which demonstrates the loan was obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Ms H - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Ms H unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Ms H. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint, I would remind 118 118 Money of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance should Ms H be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect 
payments from her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman