DRN-2730592
The complaint
Mr W complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) incorrectly recorded information 
about a road traffic accident he reported to it. 
What happened
Mr W had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. He was involved in a road traffic accident 
where a lorry failed to indicate before moving lanes, collided with the side of his car and 
damaged his wing mirror, as well as causing damage to the car door. On 10 May 2019 he 
contacted Aviva online and began the claims process. 
Aviva contacted Mr W and he said he didnt want to make a claim, that he was just notifying 
it of the incident. Aviva then contacted the third party insurer, who also confirmed a claim 
would not be made. So, Aviva closed the claim, recorded it as notification only and set 
Mr Ws no claims bonus (NCB) to allowed.  
Mr Ws policy with Aviva was cancelled on 21 September 2019 and he then took out a policy 
with a different insurer, who Ill refer to as Company A. Mr Ws premiums were later 
increased by Company A. He said Company A told him this happened because of a previous 
claim registered by Aviva. And he said Company A told him his NCB was null and void due 
to the road traffic accident reported to Aviva in May 2019. 
Mr W complained to Aviva and said there was no other way for him to notify it online of the 
accident, except through logging a claim. He said Aviva notified Company A that he made a 
claim when this was not the case. 
Aviva responded and said it is legally obliged to record the incident on the claims database. 
It said the database shows it was for information purposes only and this means all insurers 
would have known that no costs were incurred as a result of the claim. Aviva told Mr W that 
if Company A told him of any documentation they would have accepted to waive the 
increase in premium, then he should let Aviva know and it would help if possible.  
Mr W responded to Aviva and said, having spoken to Company A, hed been told they 
cannot change the premiums and require the claims database to be updated to reflect a loss 
as opposed to a claim. He also said his premiums had increased significantly because of the 
claim registered by Aviva and that his NCB was null and void.
Aviva responded and said the policy was set up in November 2018 with no NCB. It said 
Mr W didnt earn any NCB when insured by Aviva because his policy was cancelled before 
the end of the 12-month term. Aviva also said Mr Ws claim file has been closed correctly as 
a notification only - no claims were made by either party and no costs were incurred. Aviva 
said it didnt know if Company A would have taken a notification only into consideration when 
calculating premiums. It said the incident will remain on the database as it happened and so 
cannot be removed
In relation to the difference in policy prices for the two policies with Aviva, it said insurance 
costs fluctuate yearly and this is usually down to variations in the insurance market. It offered 
£50 compensation as Mr W emailed the claims team twice and didnt get a response. 
Mr W was unhappy with the response from Aviva and so complained to this service. He said 
he has lost his NCB, his premiums with Company A were unaffordable and there has been a 
rise in insurance costs with Aviva since he reported the incident. Mr W felt that that notifying 
Aviva of an incident that didnt give rise to a claim shouldnt have this sort of impact on him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said Mr W had no NCB when the policy 
started in 2018 and didnt earn any while with Aviva. Our investigator also said Aviva added 
the correct information to the claims database, as it shows the claim was notification only 
and the NCB had been allowed. With regard to the price differences in the two Aviva 
policies, our investigator said Mr W was offered an introductory discount when he first took 
out the policy and this discount didnt apply when he renewed it. 
Our investigator told Mr W that if he wants this service to look into why hes paying higher 
premiums with Company A then he would need to make a separate complaint. 
Mr W did not agree with what our investigator said, so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to clarify that this complaint is just dealing with Avivas actions and is not 
looking at the actions of Company A. If Mr W wants this service to look into the information 
provided to him by Company A and the subsequent increase in his premiums, he will need to 
make a separate complaint. 
I also want to reiterate what our investigator said about the claims (CUE) database. Namely 
that it is a central database of motor and insurance related incidents reported to insurance 
companies, which may or may not have given rise to a claim. And insurers should accurately 
report all incidents, not just claims, to it. So when Mr W was involved in the road traffic 
accident, he reported this to Aviva and Aviva rightly made sure the information was put on 
the claims database. Its irrelevant that Mr W didnt make a claim, its enough that he 
reported an incident. 
So, the issue that I need to look at is whether the correct information was put on the 
database. And Im satisfied that it was. Aviva has provided a screenshot of the database 
entry and this shows that the incident Mr W reported has been logged as notification and 
NCD allowed. So although I appreciate that Mr W was told by Company A that his 
premiums increased because of a previous claim registered by Aviva, the information Ive 
seen shows the incident was listed as notification only. 
Mr W is understandably keen not to pay higher premiums, in particular when he didnt make 
a claim following the incident in May 2019. But its the case that some insurers will charge 
higher premiums if an incident has been reported, even if a claim hasnt been made. And, 
while I make no findings about this because this decision is about the complaint against 
Aviva and not Company A, its possible this is what Company A had done. Mr W said Company A also told him his NCB was void because of the incident reported to 
Aviva. But thats not the case. When Mr W took out the policy with Aviva in November 2018 
he had no NCB. And in order to accumulate one years NCB, he would have had to have 
had a policy with Aviva for a minimum of one year. Consumers dont accumulate a years 
worth of no claims bonus unless they have been with their insurer for a year. 
In Mr Ws case, his policy was cancelled in September 2019, which was less than one year. 
So while its the case that Mr W had no NCB when he first took out a policy with Company A 
in September 2019, this was not because of the incident reported by him. It is because he 
didnt remain long enough with Aviva to have accumulated one years NCB. 
Mr W told this service that when his premiums with Company A increased, his policy 
unfortunately became unaffordable for him. So he made an amendment to a second Aviva 
policy he held  he changed the make and model of the car insured  but was concerned 
about the considerable increase in premiums that were then charged on the second policy 
and wondered if this was because of the road traffic accident he reported to Aviva. 
Aviva sent me copies of the notes made on its system when it looked into Mr Ws complaint. 
And these show the incident didnt affect the premium offered to Mr W, as it wasnt declared 
in relation to the second policy and so wasnt taken into consideration by Aviva. The notes 
indicate that the change of vehicle on the policy was the most likely cause of the increase. I 
can see that Aviva also checked to see whether taking the accident into consideration would 
affect the premium cost and it didnt. So Im satisfied the increase in premiums was not 
related to the accident reported by Mr W. 
Aviva has already offered £50 compensation to Mr W for the poor level of customer service it 
provided. I can see that Mr W was promised phone calls would be returned and this didnt 
happen. However, Im satisfied that £50 is a fair amount of compensation for the 
inconvenience this caused. 
I can see that Aviva has also told Mr W that if there is any documentation that Company A 
might accept to waive the increase in premium, then it would see if it could help. I think this 
is fair and I would encourage Mr W to look into this. 
 
Mr W also told this service that he thinks insurers like Aviva and Company A should be 
aligned in terms of how they take information, such as the incident he reported, into 
consideration when providing policies. But businesses dont have to do that. Individual 
businesses are allowed to make their own underwriting decisions. If one business chooses 
to place greater emphasis on the notification of the incident as indicating a greater risk, then 
they are allowed to do this. 
I understand my decision will disappoint Mr W, but I hope my explanation of why Ive 
reached this decision has at least helped to clarify this matter. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman