DRN-3459545
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused 
him a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
At the time the BSPS scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr W had 27 years 
and 7 months of pensionable service with his employer which gave him a total (index linked) 
pension of £15,550.90 per year (forecast to be £26,288 per year at the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65). After the DB scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr W 
joined his employers Defined Contribution (DC) scheme. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr W was unsure about what to do so in August 2017, having been referred by a colleague, 
he approached Niche for advice about his DB scheme benefits. Niche completed a fact-find 
and an attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire on 29 August 2017 in order to gather information 
about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives. A couple of weeks prior to the meeting Mr W 
had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the DB scheme of £384,256 
valid for 3 months until 11 December 2017 (this was subsequently revised by the trustees of 
the scheme on 18 September 2017 to £396,786.39). Mr Ws circumstances at the time were 
noted by Niche as follows:
He was aged 44, married with two dependent children aged 16 and 12.
He was employed as an engineer earning £33,000 per year excluding any overtime 
or bonuses. His wife was earning £18,000 per year. 
Mr and Mrs W had total outgoings of £3,000 per month and a total monthly income of 
£3,300.
He had an outstanding mortgage on his home of £64,000 which cost him £500 per 
month and had 12 years to run. 
He had a loan of £13,000 which cost £500 per month. The outstanding term of the 
loan wasnt recorded. He also paid £100 a month towards his credit card.
Mr W had joint savings with his wife of £4,800. 
He was recorded as being a member of his employers DC scheme to which he 
made contributions of 6% of his gross salary per month with his employer 
contributing 10% of his gross salary per month. Its approximate value at the time of 
the advice was £2,200. 
Mrs W was recorded as having two occupational pensions but was unsure of their 
value. 
Niche recorded that Mrs W was expected to receive an inheritance from her family.
Mr Ws preferred retirement age was 57 and his estimated monthly outgoings in 
retirement were £658. 
Mr W wanted the flexibility to retire early.
Mr Ws attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as cautious balanced later revised to 
balanced growth.  
That he wanted to take control of his pension away from his employer as he had 
concerns over its financial stability and wanted to break ties with it by moving his 
pension to an individual plan under his control. 
He liked the idea of flexible death benefits and being able to leave his remaining 
pension fund to his wife and/or children. 
He wanted the flexibility at retirement to control how much income he took from his 
pension. 
A transfer value analysis report (TVAS) was produced on 1 November 2017 which set out 
the amount of investment growth (known as the critical yield) the transferred funds needed 
to attain to be able to match the benefits being given up in the BSPS. It said Mr Ws pension 
would need to achieve growth of 6.11% each year to match his full scheme income at age 
65. It also stated that Mr Ws pension would need to grow by 3.81% for the benefits he could 
access in the PPF to match those he was giving up in the DB scheme at age 65. 
On 14 November 2017 Niche provided Mr W with its suitability report. Niche said that the 
critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits was such that it would not recommend that he 
transfer his scheme benefits as doing so would likely mean he would be financially worse off 
in retirement. However, Niche said that as Mr W said he wanted to use his pension in a 
completely different way to that permitted by the DB scheme rules, it was happy to make a 
positive recommendation that he transfer his DB scheme benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds with a provider (P) in two funds  50% in a growth fund and 50% in 
a LifeStrategy equity account fund. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation to Mr W were, in summary: 
That he would have complete control over the pension, how it was invested and the 
level of income that was withdrawn from it.
That having control would allow him to achieve his goal of taking early retirement. 
That he would be able to withdraw a greater amount in early retirement which he 
could then reduce when he was able to collect his state pension. 
That it would likely lead to increased death benefits for both his wife and daughters. 
Mr W accepted the recommendation and the transfer went ahead shortly after.
Niche was remunerated with an initial advice fee of £6,000 and an ongoing annual fee of 
£1,500. The personal pension providers annual charges were 0.35% for the account, 0.65% 
for the growth fund and 0.22% for the LifeStrategy equity fund.
In November 2021 Mr Ws personal pension was valued at £489,903.50.
In September 2021, Mr Ws representative complained to Niche that the advice hed been 
given to transfer out of his DB scheme had been unsuitable and that the transfer shouldnt 
have been recommended to Mr W in his circumstances as they were at the time. Mr W went on to say that his benefits could have been carried forward into BSPS2 and that they were 
highly unlikely to be matched through the personal pension that Niche had recommended. 
Niche looked into Mr Ws complaint, issuing its final response letter on 17 November 2021; it 
didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. Niche said that it made it clear in the 
suitability report that the scheme benefits were unlikely to be achieved by transferring and, 
on a like-for-like basis, Mr W was likely to be worse off. However, it said the suitability report 
went on to explain what Mr Ws objectives were and that the like-for-like critical yield 
comparison was not an appropriate one. 
Niche also said that it provided Mr W with an addendum to its suitability report in June 2018 
which reconfirmed the critical yields but used the BSPS2 for comparison purposes. It said 
the addendum report was more specific and discussed the critical yield at Mr Ws normal 
retirement date (NRD) of 65 and his desired retirement age of 57; it said the critical yield 
required to match the (BSPS2) scheme benefits at NRD was 4.57% per annum and at age 
57 it was 5.8% per annum.
Niche said it had explained to Mr W in the addendum report that he could maintain his 
financial position whether he transferred out of his scheme or not but that he had decided to 
transfer because he wasnt content to leave control of his pension with his employer. Niche 
said all the options had been explained to Mr W on multiple occasions and that he had had 
an appropriate amount of time to make an informed decision. Niche said that it didnt think 
that Mr W had been financially disadvantaged as a result of the advice he received to 
transfer and it said it thought he was now in the position he wanted to be in when he first 
sought its advice. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to Niche, Mr W complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said he 
thought the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr W because it wasnt financially viable. He also 
thought that there were no other compelling reasons which meant the transfer could be said 
to be suitable for Mr W in the circumstances. 
Mr W replied to say that he agreed with our Investigators findings and that he thought any 
loss calculation should be completed in line with FCA guidance and be calculated to his 
NRD of 65. Niche replied to say it didnt accept our Investigators findings and it asked for 
the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niches actions 
here.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Niche carried out a TVAS report (as required by the regulator) showing how much Mr Ws 
pension fund would need to grow by each year (the critical yield) in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme. This analysis was based on his existing BSPS scheme 
benefits, but Mr W didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS; he either needed to opt into 
BSPS2 or move with the existing BSPS scheme to the PPF. 
Niche has said that at the point it provided its suitability report to Mr W, the relevant BSPS2 
factors were not yet available to use for comparison purposes. So its first suitability report 
based its analysis on the original BSPS. But by November 2017 when the TVAS and 
suitability report were produced by Niche for Mr W he had received his Time to Choose 
pack. And details of the scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same 
income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been lower. Of course, its possible this 
may not have gone ahead, but I still think the proposed benefits available to Mr W through 
the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice so that he was able to make an 
informed decision. 
The TVAS dated 1 November 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 6.11% 
if Mr W took a full pension. It also stated that Mr Ws pension would need to grow by 3.81% 
for the benefits he could access in the PPF to match those he was giving up in the DB 
scheme at age 65 or 3.57% if he took a reduced pension and a pension commencement tax 
free lump sum (PCLS). 
According to the fact-find and the suitability report Mr W wanted to retire from British Steel 
early, possibly at age 57. However, that doesnt appear to have been anything more than a 
best guess, given he was only 44 at the time of the advice and could continue working for 
up to another 20 years. Nevertheless, given Mr W had expressed a desire to retire at that 
age, I think Niche shouldve provided him with the relevant critical yields at the time it was 
advising him so that he was able to make an informed decision.
As Ive said above, Mr W remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been provided by Niche. That way Mr W would have been in possession of all the information he needed to make an 
informed choice. And whilst this information wasnt available to Mr W at the point he needed 
to make his decision, it can be seen from the addendum suitability report that the critical 
yield Mr Ws transferred pension fund would need to attain by age 65 if he took a full pension 
was 4.57% and at age 57 it was 5.84%.  So whilst the lower annual increases under the 
BSPS2 meant the critical yields were lower, they were still higher than those reflecting the 
PPF benefits, particularly at age 65.  
And it can be seen from the addendum suitability report that as the transferred funds would 
be invested for less time and would be required to pay for benefits for a longer period, the 
critical yields for retiring at 57 were higher than those at 65. The advice was given after the 
regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate 
future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these 
rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.5% per year for 20 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Niche says that at the time of the advice it 
assessed that Mr W was likely to be a high medium risk investor with capacity before he 
retired to build his pension funds and tolerate some losses. 
However, Im unable to agree with Niches assessment of Mr Ws ATR. There is nothing in 
the fact-find to support the conclusion that Mr W was an individual whose ATR was 
bordering on aggressive (or level 6 on a scale of 1 to 10). I would expect someone whose 
ATR is assessed at a level 6 to be able to display some evidence of previous investment 
experience. However, Mr W is recorded as having no investment plans and only £4,800 in 
savings - £4,000 in an ISA and £800 in a savings account. 
And from the ATR questionnaire Mr W completed it can be seen that he agreed with the 
statements about being a cautious person and taking a long while to make up his mind on 
financial matters and disagreed that he would rather take a chance with high risk/high 
return investments. 
I can also see from the ATR questionnaire that Mr W said he was comfortable investing in 
the stock market, that he found investment and financial matters easy to understand and that 
he disagreed that he had little experience in investing in stocks and shares. But Ive seen no 
evidence that these statements reflected Mr Ws actual position at the time of the advice. 
There is no evidence that he was comfortable in, or had experience with, investing in stocks 
and shares. So its reasonable to conclude that there was nothing in Mr Ws profile at the 
time of the advice that, in my view, could lead to the conclusion that he should reasonably be 
classified as someone with a high/medium ATR. I think Mr Ws ATR, given his personal 
circumstances at the time, should more reasonably have been assessed as 
medium/moderate.
I dont think that the length of time Mr W had to go to retirement meant his capacity for loss 
was significant. I can see that Mr W had £4,800 in savings at the time of the advice and that 
he had 12 years left to run on his mortgage. It cant be assumed that just because Mr W had 20+ years to go until he retired that he could afford to gamble by transferring his DB 
scheme. The income he was forecast to receive at retirement from the scheme (if he 
remained) is, I think, one he didnt have the capacity to lose. 
There would be little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was 3.57%, which was based on Mr W taking a reduced pension and a 
PCLS through the PPF at age 65. If Mr W were to have opted into the BSPS2 and take the 
same benefits at age 65 the critical yield wouldve been 4.57%. 
The critical yield for taking a pension through the PPF was below the discount rate of 4.5% 
and below the regulators middle projection rate of 5%. The revised critical yield in the 
addendum report for opting into the BSPS2 taking a pension at age 65 was just slightly 
above the discount rate but below the regulators middle projection rate. On balance I think 
the opportunity at NRD for Mr W to improve on his DB scheme benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension was a limited one.  And there is little point in transferring just to match the 
benefits that would have been available by remaining in the scheme. If Mr W retired early 
however, which is something he had expressed an interest in doing, then he would likely 
receive benefits of a lower overall value than those offered by the PPF and BSPS2 given the 
critical yield for doing so was cited as 5.84%. So I am confident that had Niche informed 
Mr W of the true value and benefits of the BSPS2 and the PPF, and then advised him to 
remain in the BSPS, he would have accepted this and he would then have opted to join the 
BSPS2.
Its worth stating that I havent based my findings on the discount rate alone however, I think 
it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth 
was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator 
required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those 
payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were 
free to use the discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable assumption of the 
likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators 
published projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is this 
combination, along with Mr Ws attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe he had little 
opportunity to improve on the benefits he was entitled to through the DB scheme, particularly 
if he retired early.
Niche has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr W wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Niches models show 
that it had compared Mr Ws existing situation to a situation where his transfer value and his 
savings grew at a net investment rate of 2% per year. And whereas Mr Ws DB scheme was 
going to give him an income at NRD of in excess of £26,000 (and which was index linked), 
Niches cashflow model was based on Mr W reducing the amount he took from the pension 
significantly once his state pension became payable. So, it wasnt comparable with him 
taking his DB scheme benefits as hed be receiving far less income overall. Furthermore, 
I note the TVAS shows that if Mr W took the same level of benefits from the DB scheme at 
age 65 and he achieved an investment return of 5%, his fund would run out at age 93. And 
I think this was a more reasonable comparison to highlight. 
And I can also see that Niche prepared a cashflow forecast based on Mr W remaining in his 
DB scheme and retiring at age 57. The forecast refers to a 25% early retirement penalty 
being applied to the scheme for taking early retirement at 57. I think that its misleading to 
refer to any income thats been reduced as a result of taking retirement earlier than the 
schemes NRD as being subject to a penalty. What actually occurs is an actuarial 
adjustment to reflect a situation where the scheme is being asked to pay a pension for a 
longer period of time. This isnt done to penalise individuals and I think Niches focus should have been on explaining this to Mr W. That by taking early retirement from the scheme his 
pension would be reduced accordingly to reflect that. And that rather than transferring he 
may want to wait to nearer retirement age to see if he did really want or need to retire at 57. 
He may well be content to work past 57 and the more years he does so, the smaller any 
actuarial reduction his scheme benefits would have been. 
So I think the cashflow is misleading in this respect. And I note that it doesnt include the 
index linking that is part of the DB scheme in its forecast. And it is unclear to me how Mr W 
was meant to increase his savings to what appears from the forecast to be about £175,000 
by the age of 57 so that he could use them to meet any shortfall in his retirement income. 
And whilst Niches cashflow forecast shows that Mr Ws funds wont run out before he 
reaches the age of 100 it is predicated on Mr W saving enough for that to be the case. And I 
cant see that there was any real interrogation of Mr W by Niche as to how this was to be 
achieved. 
Furthermore, Niche said in its suitability letter: I would recommend that you do not transfer 
this pension, as you are likely to be financially worse off in retirement. So it is clear to me 
that Niche realised that by transferring, Mr W would be unable to match the benefits he was 
giving up. 
Given Mr W was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as Niche has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Ws best interests, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems to me that the main reason that Niche recommended Mr W transfer his pension 
was for the flexibility and control it offered him over how it was invested and the amount of 
income that was withdrawn from it. But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr W 
needed to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in 
retirement, if he did in fact need it. Although Mr W could choose to take TFC and a reduced 
annual pension from his DB scheme, Mr W had to take those benefits at the same time. But 
Im not persuaded that Mr W had any need to take TFC earlier than his retirement age. I also 
dont think he had any particular need to vary his income throughout his retirement. To my 
mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
I think Niches advice ignored the retirement funds that Mr W would be building up over the 
next 20+ years, through his employers DC scheme or any other future employment. The 
fact-find says that the combined contributions of Mr W and his employer into his DC scheme 
amounted to 16% of his gross annual income. So it is reasonable to assume that even with 
modest investment growth over the next 20+ years, Mr W could have access to a significant 
fund by the time he retires. And Mr W could use his DC scheme if he wanted to retire early, 
without needing to access his DB scheme before his NRD (thereby avoiding any actuarial 
reduction).
Furthermore, it is reasonable to assume that Mr Ws disposable income would increase 
when he paid his mortgage off in 12 years time and when he paid off his personal loan 
meaning any surplus income could be put towards building his savings pot further. So 
potentially, by the time he wanted to retire, Mr W could have had a substantial savings pot to 
access flexibly to top up his retirement income.According to Niches cashflow forecast, Mr W needed an annual income in retirement of 
£25,896. 
Whilst I accept that at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established, I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr W had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr W 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £16,612.57 per year (along with a PCLS of 
£110,592.52) from the PPF. This was lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the 
BSPS2 which Niche calculated in the addendum suitability report would be £26,288. 
Although the PPF pension was lower than the BSPS2 pension Mr W wouldve had his DC 
scheme to draw on until his state pension became payable, or until he reached his DB 
scheme NRD if he wanted to retire earlier. So the fact the PPF pension was lower shouldnt 
have made a difference to the recommendation as I still think Mr W couldve most likely met 
his needs in retirement  including being able to vary his income  even if the BSPS2 hadnt 
gone ahead and hed had to move with it to the PPF.
And, as Ive set out above, Mr W was unlikely to obtain benefits of the same value at 
retirement if he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So he would have had even less 
income than was forecast. From Niches cashflow forecast it is clear that Mr W had a better 
chance of achieving an income to meet his forecast retirement expenditure of £25,896 per 
year by opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were guaranteed and escalated) 
rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension and his savings for all of his 
retirement funds. The majority of the pension provisions Mr W was building up over the next 
20 years would be subject to investment risk, so I dont think it was reasonable to also place 
his guaranteed pension funds at risk.
Furthermore, Mr W was only aged 44 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen 
he didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr W had 11 years before he could think about 
accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr W to give up 
his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his exact needs in retirement would 
be. If Mr W later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme he could have done so closer 
to retirement.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr W could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65 and taking 
additional funds from his DC scheme until his state pension became payable. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that 
he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Niche explored to what extent 
Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr W predeceased her. Mr W also had two teenage dependent children. Under 
the DB scheme there was provision for a childrens pension up to age 23 if they remained in 
full-time education. I dont think Niche made the value of these benefits clear enough to 
Mr W. They were guaranteed and escalated so there werent dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the 
TVAS shows Mr Ws pension fund would be depleted by age 93 if he achieved an annual 
investment return of 6.11%, so there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to 
pass on when he died. In any event, Niche should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise 
the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Niche 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. This may well have been something Mr W would 
have considered and been able to afford. And I think it is an option that Niche should have 
explored regardless. If he wanted an extra sum specifically for his wife and children, he 
couldve taken extra cover out on a whole of life basis and written it in trust for their benefit. 
Significantly I cant see that there was any documented discussion about the fact that Mr W 
was now a member of his employers defined contribution scheme which had the potential to 
grow depending on when Mr D retired. And its evident that Mr W could nominate 
beneficiaries of his choosing under the DC scheme. So, hed already had the option to 
ensure that part of his pension didnt die with him.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumer, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Niches obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice Niche gave Mr W shouldve properly taken the benefits 
available to him through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ws 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Niche shouldve 
reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
The income available to Mr W through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of 
the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed 
this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that 
these concerns shouldve led to Niche recommending Mr W transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.I also think Mr Ws desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr W was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr W  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme. 
It seems to me that Mr Ws stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment. 
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Ws employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not one and the same. And in any event, Mr W was not intending to leave his 
employment and his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out 
of the scheme didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had Niche explained that 
Mr Ws belief regarding the control Mr Ws employer had over his pension was misplaced, I 
think he would have been reassured by this.
Suitability of investments
Niche recommended that Mr W invest in funds which werent suitable for someone with his 
ATR. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt suitable for Mr W, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr W should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the investments in the unsuitable wouldnt have arisen if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Niche 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to was Mr W suitable or in his best interests. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr W had a vague objective to 
retire at age 57 but I dont think this was a fully formed plan; it was some 13 years away.  
And I dont think Niche interrogated this objective in any meaningful way  it didnt establish 
how much TFC or income Mr C would need, so it couldnt offer any real insight into whether 
Mr W couldve met this objective by moving with the scheme to the PPF or the new BSPS2, 
or by using the savings already available to him or by using his DC scheme flexibly. So, 
I dont think Mr Ws plans or ambitions were concrete enough for Niche to say it was in his 
best interests to give up his guaranteed benefits and transfer out of the scheme.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr W was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr W. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above, I dont think the advice to transfer out of the BSPS was suitable. 
Mr W was being advised by Niche after having received the Time to Choose document and 
was at the point where he had to select which option to he wanted to take. I carefully considered what Mr W likely would have done  had he been suitably advised by Niche  
and on balance I think he would have opted to join the BSPS2. I say this because I dont 
think Mr Ws retirement plans were fully formed. So, I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr W wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme if 
he needed to at some point in the future. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Niche shouldve 
advised Mr W to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against Niches 
advice. Niche says Mr Ws needs and objectives were only met by transferring to the 
personal pension and that he was fully aware of the benefits he was sacrificing. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if Niche had 
explained that Mr W was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him 
by transferring and that he shouldnt be prioritising death benefits over retirement benefits I 
think he wouldve accepted this. I also think if Niche had explained that the flexibility he 
sought could be met by other means and that the uncertainty over his requirements meant 
transferring at that time was not in his interests and that the other things hed expressed 
worry about were not things he needed to be as concerned about as he was, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr W would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont think that Niche provided Mr W with all the 
necessary information he needed to make a fully informed decision. And by not fully advising 
Mr W  for example by not exploring the option of life cover with him or by not attempting to 
fully understand what his retirement income needs were  I dont think I can agree that Niche 
did take reasonable steps, or exercise reasonable skill and care, to ensure the transfer was 
suitable. 
For this reason, I think Niche should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
offered by the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes. This is 
because I know that Mr W is a long way from retirement and has no firmly formed plans 
around when he will retire. 
I agree with our Investigator that Mr W will have been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by Niches unsuitable advice so I think that Niche should pay him 
compensation of £300 in recognition of any trouble and upset it has caused him. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. Mr W confirmed 
that he would like any redress to be calculated in line with current guidance.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely opted into the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Mr W is a long way from retirement. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Niche should also pay Mr W compensation of £300 in recognition of any trouble and upset it 
has caused him. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If CONSUMER accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman