DRN-3308693
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus wont refund a cash machine withdrawal from the account it didnt receive.
What happened
The director of E says he tried to take out £500 from a cash machine on 8 March 2021. The 
card was returned but no money was given. The owner of the cash machine said he should 
raise this with Cashplus.
Cashplus said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It had made a chargeback to the owner of 
the cash machine. And it says it received evidence that the money was dispensed. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the money and any fees 
refunded with eight per cent simple interest per annum. Cashplus had provided a copy of the 
journal roll showing that Es card and PIN was entered and a request to withdraw the money 
was made. But wed also expect to see evidence that the machine balanced and that no 
cash has been rejected. And confirmation that there were no technical issues with the 
machine
Cashplus didnt agree. It said it had no ability to request specific pieces of information from 
the cash machine owner. And the time limits for chargeback had now expired and it wasnt 
able to raise a second dispute. It said we might want to request further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was fairly Cashplus responsibility to provide evidence to support this disputed transaction. 
And I note the time that has since elapsed and that it raised the dispute by chargeback and 
had not contacted the cashpoint owner directly. So, it says that this restricted the time within 
which it could ask for information and its ability to ask specific questions.
We expect and typically receive the information that our investigators referred to. So, I think 
Cashplus has had a reasonable opportunity to provide evidence. 
I will be making my decision based upon what Cashplus and E have provided. The journal 
roll confirms that the card was inserted, and the correct PIN entered. And that a request for 
£500 was made. This doesnt though rule out a technical error or for example the notes 
being purged and retained by the machine.
E had made an earlier similar dispute about a withdrawal at the same cash machine in 
December 2020. I will be making a decision about that one separately. But I can reasonably 
think about how likely it is that there were two such errors for E at the same machine. 
Against that I note that the director had been using this machine regularly for similar 
withdrawals from Es account and that E had significant credit balances. I think he could 
expect particularly close attention by Cashplus to be paid to a second similar dispute and 
that if not genuine this would be discovered with systems information. And from the 
information Ive seen hed not been told about the outcome of the first dispute when he 
raised this one and so the reasons why that hadnt been upheld.
Ive balanced all these factors in making my decision. Im not persuaded that Cashplus has 
established that this cash was correctly dispensed. And I accept the directors account on 
behalf of E of what happened as most likely. So, I will be requiring Cashplus to refund this 
money with simple interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus to:
1) Refund £500 together with any related fees applied to E
2) Pay E simple interest of eight per cent per annum on the refunded amount from the 
date of withdrawal to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman