DRN-2949853
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that during their mortgage application with National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) the advisor misinformed them about what he needed and didnt ask for 
the required information sooner, which meant interest rates increased and they lost out on a 
lower rate. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P completed the first stage of an application for a mortgage with NatWest online 
on 14 August 2020 and received an agreement in principle. They had the option to complete 
the next stage of the application online, by telephone or in branch and chose to do so over 
the phone, booking an appointment for the next available slot, which was on 26 August. Mr 
and Mrs P were asked by the advisor to upload some documents and did this on 21 August, 
save for one document they needed to obtain. 
Half an hour before the appointment on 26 August, NatWest asked for some further 
documents to be uploaded and then more documents were requested during the telephone 
appointment. It became necessary to book a further appointment for which the next available 
slot was 8 September. By this time the interest rate for the mortgage had increased. Mr and 
Mrs P say that because of the advisors lack of preparation and the fact they werent 
informed about the documents required earlier, they missed out on a favourable rate on the 
mortgage. As a result of this they had to take a mortgage with another lender. 
NatWest says that the interest rate was not secured on 14 August as the mortgage 
application had not been completed or an offer made at that stage and there was no legally 
binding agreement. There was an agreement in principle which would have given Mr and 
Mrs P an indication of the level of potential borrowing and was not a guarantee. It says that 
during the call with the advisor on 26 August it was found that further information and 
documentation was needed before the application could be considered further.
NatWest says that it was Mr and Mrs Ps choice to want to progress the application over the 
phone and that the appointment was booked at the nearest available time. It says that due to 
the unprecedented amount of appointments being booked and the impact of COVID-19 
meaning there are less mortgage advisors available, this had led to delays as the availability 
of appointments was more limited than usual.
Our investigator looked at this case and didnt think NatWest needed to take any further 
action. The investigator concluded that the agreement in principle provided was not a 
guarantee that NatWest would lend or of a preferred interest rate.  He found that the interest 
rate had already increased from 1.94% to 2.14% prior to the first appointment so this was 
not as a result of the advisor. The rate increased again to 2.44% before the second 
appointment, so the delay in the appointment at this stage meant Mr and Mrs P missed out 
on a lower rate. However, Mr and Mrs P didnt proceed with the application and got a 
mortgage rate of 2.11% with another lender. Therefore Mr and Mrs P had not suffered any 
financial detriment. 
Mr and Mrs P disagree with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. They say 
that had the advisor communicated with them in a timely manner, they could have avoided 
having to get a higher cost mortgage for their home. Mr and Mrs P say that they could have 
secured the rate on 26 August which was less than the rate of 2.11% that they are now on 
with a different lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
NatWest provided Mr and Mrs P with an agreement in principle on 14 August. At this time 
the interest rate for the product Mr and Mrs P were interested in was 1.94%. An agreement 
in principle is not a guarantee of a mortgage offer and it would not have been possible for Mr 
and Mrs P to reserve the interest rate of 1.94% at this stage of the application. The 
agreement in principle was merely an indication of what NatWest may be prepared to lend 
subject to the rest of the application being completed. 
Mr and Mrs P chose to complete their application by way of a telephone appointment. The 
first appointment was within 12 days of the agreement in principle. Whilst I appreciate that it 
may have taken longer for Mr and Mrs P to get a telephone appointment during the 
pandemic than it would have done previously, this was an unprecedented situation for 
businesses as well as consumers and there were less appointments available. Mr and Mrs P 
also had the option to complete the rest of the application online but chose not to do so. So I 
cant say that NatWest has acted unreasonably in respect of the length of time Mr and Mrs P 
had to wait for the first telephone appointment in the circumstances. 
Documents were requested from Mr and Mrs P prior to the telephone appointment, which 
they provided. I can see from the information provided by Mr and Mrs P that more 
documents were requested by NatWests advisor very shortly before the appointment. 
During the appointment, further documentation was also requested which meant that 
another telephone appointment was needed. I can see how this would be frustrating for Mr 
and Mrs P as they were keen to move the application forward and it seems likely that they 
would have provided this information earlier had it been requested.
Ive gone on to think about what effect this had on Mr and Mrs P and I dont think they 
suffered any financial detriment due to the need for a second appointment. Ive seen 
information from NatWest showing the rate changes over the relevant period of time. The 
interest rate for the product in the agreement in principle increased to 2.14% with effect from 
18 August. So this would have been the interest rate Mr and Mrs P would have got had they 
been able to complete their application during the first telephone appointment on 26 August. 
The interest rate increased again to 2.44% with effect from 4 September. So, had Mr and 
Mrs P taken the mortgage at the time of the second appointment, then I accept that the 
delay would have meant they had lost out financially. However, Mr and Mrs P have provided 
information showing that the mortgage they took with a different lender was at a rate of 
2.11%. This was less than the lower rate they could have got with NatWest at the time of the 
first telephone appointment.  So I dont think Mr and Mrs P lost out financially as a result of 
the need to have a second appointment and the delay in between this and the first 
appointment. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, but I can't say that 
anything NatWest has done has caused them to lose out financially and therefore I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman