DRN-2099937
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the standard of service from her insurer (Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited). Her complaint relates to the handling of a claim for damage to her 
vehicle from a suspension airbag puncture that she maintains was caused by a previous 
faulty repair by the insurers approved repairer.
 
This complaint is specifically about the puncture, Mrs T having made other complaints to this 
service about the previous faulty repair, as well as about communication problems with her 
insurer. These complaints have been dealt with through separate decisions issued by this 
service, so they are not considered here.
What happened
Mrs Ts vehicle suffered a failure in February 2020, where a rear suspension airbag 
punctured. Mrs Ts view was that the puncture was a result of a previous faulty repair by the 
insurers approved repairer in January 2019, where the rear nearside wheel was not 
attached correctly. This led to Mrs T having an incident in March 2019 when the wheel 
worked loose and partly detached. The damage to the vehicle was repaired at another 
garage chosen by Mrs T as she was unhappy at the vehicle returning to the original 
approved repairer. After some delay, Mrs Ts vehicle was returned to her at the end of May 
2019 with the wheel properly secured to the vehicle.
  
Following the incident in February 2020, in the view of the garage to which she took her 
vehicle for repair, the earlier faulty repair and the working loose of the wheel had led to 
stress on the suspension that ultimately led to the suspension airbag puncture in February 
2020. The insurers engineer also inspected Mrs Ts vehicle following the incident but 
concluded that the puncture was due to wear and tear. They also stated that this was a 
common fault on the type of vehicle. Mrs T disputed this and cited views that she had 
obtained from dealers of the make of her vehicle that contradicted the view of the insurers 
engineer. She also maintained that it was not a co-incidence that the airbag puncture had 
only occurred in the area of the suspension where the wheel had worked loose and not in 
the other three suspension airbags in the parts of the suspension next to the other three 
wheels. Mrs T was also concerned that the insurers engineer had not been aware of the 
history of the problem with the earlier faulty repair and the wheel when they inspected her 
vehicle.
Mrs T complained to her insurer in February 2020. She asked that the insurer pay for the 
cost of repairs to her vehicle as a result of the rear suspension airbag puncture, as she 
maintained that it was due to the earlier faulty repair and the subsequent impact of the wheel 
not being properly secured and working loose. The insurer considered Mrs Ts complaint and 
in March 2020 they rejected it. They said that their engineer had properly inspected Mrs Ts 
vehicle, and that he had considered the engineers report from the earlier incident in March 
2019 and liaised with that engineer. The insurers engineer concluded that the rear 
suspension airbag failure could not have been attributed to the earlier problems with the 
wheel, as it would have failed instantly  rather than over the course of the time from the 
wheel being properly secured in May 2019 to the incident in February 2020. Mrs T was 
unhappy at the outcome and complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint, including each of the issues 
raised by Mrs T. The investigator concluded that the insurer had acted fairly in the way that 
they had rejected Mrs Ts complaint, and consequently that it should not have to pay for the 
cost of repairs arising from the airbag puncture. 
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is the decide whether the insurer has acted fairly towards Mrs T. Mrs T has 
made a number of points. I havent addressed every one here, but Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the main issues. But I have considered all the points she has raised.
The main part of Mrs Ts complaint is that the rear suspension airbag puncture was a result 
of the faulty repair by the insurers repairer in March 2019, which led to a further incident in 
March 2019 and subsequent repair in May 2019. Mrs T refers to discussions that she has 
had with the garage that dealt with her car after the suspension airbag puncture and states 
that this supports her view that the failure was a consequence of the wheel previously failing 
and stress on the suspension around the wheel, including the airbag.
The insurer disagrees, based on the view from their engineer that the suspension airbag 
failure was due to wear and tear and could not have been caused by any fault with the wheel 
(and its repair). We are not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle 
would be caused as this would be a matter for the experts in these situations, which would 
be engineers and insurers. Instead we consider whats most likely based on the available 
information. Given the length of time between the wheel being secured properly after it had 
worked loose and the airbag puncture, it is not possible to know with certainty what caused 
the puncture. I therefore must decide, on the balance of probabilities, what is a fair and 
reasonable conclusion.
Ive considered the views of the engineer cited by the insurer in their response to the 
complaint from Mrs T to this service, supported by evidence more generally available in the 
public domain to which he refers. Ive also considered the other factors where there is a 
difference of opinion between Mrs T (and the informal views that she cites) and the insurer 
and their engineer. For example, the age and mileage covered by the vehicle, where Mrs T 
maintains that the vehicle has not covered the mileage that some sources indicate could 
lead to an airbag puncture. Whereas the engineer notes that the vehicle has covered a 
higher than average mileage for a vehicle of this type. 
On balance, I consider that the airbag puncture was not caused by the original faulty repair 
to the vehicles wheel and the subsequent incident in March 2019. I have given particular 
weight to the fact that the airbag puncture occurred eight months after the wheel was 
secured properly in May 2019 and is of a nature consistent with a failure due to wear and 
tear. Mrs T makes a fair point about the airbag being punctured in the area of the 
suspension where the wheel worked loose (but the other suspension airbags have not 
suffered a puncture). But it doesnt make me think that the puncture was due to the wheel 
working loose and the impact that it had. This is also supported by the view of the engineer, 
which I find persuasive, that the location and fitment of the airbag is such that it could not 
have been damaged by issues with the wheel.Based on these considerations I dont believe that the insurer should be held responsible for 
the cost of repairs as a result of the airbag puncture.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I consider that Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited has acted fairly.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman