DRN-3728445
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont reimburse her the money she lost when she 
fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Miss M holds an account with Revolut. Miss M wanted to purchase a ticket for a 
flight abroad to see family and after looking online contacted a company that she thought 
was a legitimate travel company.
Unfortunately the company Miss M had contacted were impersonating a genuine travel 
company. So Miss M was in fact communicating with fraudsters. 
On 8 January 2022, Miss M paid £99 as a deposit for the flight through a card payment. And 
then on 10 January 2022 she paid the remaining balance of £322.69 for the flight through an 
international bank transfer. 
Ultimately Miss M never received any tickets and realised she had fallen victim to a scam.
Miss M contacted Revolut to report what had happened and too see if she could get the 
amounts back.
Revolut considered that Miss M had authorised the card transaction of £99 so considered 
Miss M was liable for the amount. It tried to raise a chargeback but ultimately, the merchant 
(where the funds were paid to) was a money transfer provider  and the chargeback was 
unsuccessful as the merchant had carried out the service required of it.
Revolut also logged a scam case for the international payment Miss M had made. Revolut 
reached out to the beneficiary bank (the bank where the funds were sent to) to see if it could 
recover all or any of the funds for Miss M. This was unsuccessful with the beneficiary bank 
confirming that no funds remained. 
Revolut also considered it wasnt responsible for the loss as it had carried out Miss Ms 
instructions to make the payment and it had provided her with adequate warnings before she 
authorised the payment. So it considered that it had tried to prevent the fraud and also tried 
to recover the funds once notified.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Miss M referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They considered Revolut had 
acted fairly in trying to raise a chargeback with the card payment Miss M had made which 
was unsuccessful. And with the international payment Miss M made they didnt think Revolut 
ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in the 
circumstances. So they didnt think Revolut ought to have had a cause for concern that 
Miss M was at risk of financial harm or was falling victim to a scam to an extent where it 
should have questioned Miss M about the payment.
They also considered Revolut had acted in a timely manner when it was notified of the fraud 
but unfortunately no funds remained that could be recovered. 
Miss M has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. This is set out within the Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (PSRs) and these are the relevant regulations in place here.
Miss M authorised both the card payment and international transfer. This means that under 
the PSRs Miss M is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Miss M was 
the unfortunate victim of a scam and was tricked into making the payments.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Revolut have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the credit card payment or international transfer or the amounts that ought 
to have alerted Revolut to the possibility Miss M was being scammed. Banks and payment 
service providers process a high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And a bank 
/ payment service provider has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on 
a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. 
I dont think there were grounds for Revolut to be suspicious Miss M may be a victim of fraud 
when she made the payments. All things considered, I think the fact that Revolut didnt flag 
the payments as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And I dont think 
it missed an opportunity to prevent the loss Miss M incurred.
I have also looked to see whether Revolut acted appropriately once the scam was reported 
and whether it acted promptly in relation to the international transfer to see if any of the 
funds could be recovered. I can see that Revolut tried to raise a chargeback for the card payment which was 
unsuccessful (as the merchant successfully defended the chargeback as it had ultimately 
carried out its services  given it was a money transfer provider).
And with regards to the international payment, Revolut contacted the international receiving 
bank but unfortunately received confirmation that no funds remained that could be 
recovered. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss M and I can understand why she wanted to do 
all that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She sent her money in good faith 
believing she was purchasing a flight ticket to see her family. But overall, while I appreciate 
Miss Ms been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Revoluts decision not to refund her 
in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because Im satisfied that Revolut followed Miss Ms instructions to make the 
payments and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, 
the chargeback for the card payment was unsuccessful and no funds remained from the 
international payment Miss M made, meaning Revolut were unable to recover any funds or 
do anything to help Miss M further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman