DRN-3518825
The complaint
The complaint concerns advice provided by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) to place a Personal 
Investment Plan (PIP) in trust, preventing Mr M from later accessing the invested money. 
What happened
In 2006, prompted by changes in legislation relating to trust arrangements, BoS reviewed 
Mr Ms existing estate planning. At the time he had two PIPs held in a BoS gift trust, 
specifically a flexible interest in possession trust. One PIP was a lump sum investment, the 
other was funded through regular monthly contributions of £300. 
Because of the changes to the reporting and tax regimes for the existing trust, BoS 
recommended that a third PIP be set up to receive the monthly payments in future. This new 
PIP would be held in a newly arranged bare trust that wouldnt be affected by the legislative 
changes, so keeping matters simpler. The applications for the PIP and trust were duly 
completed and the investment commenced, with Mr M and his wife as trustees and their 
grown-up children as beneficiaries.    
Later, in 2021, Mr Ms circumstances had changed. His wife had sadly passed away, his 
health had deteriorated, and financial arrangements needed to be made for his care. His 
children, who by this point held power of attorney for Mr M, approached BoS, but it explained 
that power of attorney didnt provide for delegation of trustee duties. As a result, Mr M was 
removed as a trustee, replaced by his children.
A complaint was then made to BoS concerning the suitability of the 2006 advice. In short, it 
was felt that the ongoing £300 monthly payments shouldnt have been committed to the PIP 
in the bare trust, but instead retained for Mr Ms benefit so the money wouldve been 
available to him to help fund his care. Concerns were also raised that Mr Ms children hadnt 
been made aware of their interest in the bare trust and the potential tax liabilities.
BoS didnt uphold the complaint. It felt the advice had been suitable given Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time and that the rationale behind it had been fully explained in the 
financial report issued to him. It noted that the report had explained the tax implications and 
highlighted that the beneficiaries should be notified of their interests under the trust. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as BoS. He was satisfied the recommendation of a bare trust had been 
reasonable and, in noting concerns raised that this particular type of trust was typically used 
when the beneficiaries were minors, explained that there were nevertheless no restrictions 
relating to the ages of beneficiaries. More generally, he was satisfied that Mr Ms potential 
inheritance tax liability had been correctly identified given the rates and legislation at the time 
and that it was noted Mr M had not wanted access to the money committed to the 
investment. 
The investigator explained that Mr Ms children had been made the lives assured for the PIP 
to provide flexibility of surrender, so the investment wouldnt automatically close when Mr M 
passed away. He felt that the tax position had been set out in the financial report and that it 
had been noted that the beneficiaries should be informed, and that it was ultimately the 
responsibility of the trustees to do so and manage other aspects of the trust arrangement.
The investigators opinion wasnt accepted. Concerns remained that Mr M hadnt been 
aware of the consequences of the PIP being placed in the trust and that BoS had provided 
conflicting information. The investigator obtained some clarification from BoS that the money 
in the PIP belonged to the beneficiaries (who, as noted, were also by this point the trustees) 
and that it could be withdrawn by them at any time by contacting BoS. 
Ultimately though, no agreement could be reached, so the matter was referred to me to 
review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I dont think the complaint should be upheld. 
I appreciate the complaint has come about because of the need to provide care for Mr M and 
acknowledge that this will have been a difficult time for Mr Ms family. But I must look at what 
happened at the time of the advice, in 2006, and judge the actions of the adviser on the 
circumstances then. 
And in that respect, it strikes me that the recommendation to create the new trust, 
unencumbered by the new requirements that the new legislation would create, was a 
reasonable and suitable one for Mr Ms circumstances at that time. 
The investment itself  the monthly payments made to the new PIP  was effectively just a 
continuation of what was already in place, with no deviation in the level of risk involved. So, 
the crux of the matter is really whether it was reasonable at that time to put the investment in 
trust, in such a way that the money would no longer be available for Mr M to use.
It's clear from the 2006 financial report that estate planning was the sole objective for Mr M 
and that this particular advice was an extension of plans already made, prompted by 
changes to the rules. His inheritance tax liability appears to have been correctly determined 
and while I note that the legislation around nil-rate bands changed the following year, 
potentially meaning thered no longer be any liability, thats not something that the adviser 
wouldve been aware of at the time, so hed only have been able to advise in the context of 
what the current rules were.
I think, on balance, its more likely than not that Mr M was aware of what the 
recommendation involved and its consequences and was happy to proceed with it. BoS has 
supplied some additional notes relating to Mr Ms communications with it in the years 
following the advice. These describe changes in his circumstances such as him receiving an 
inheritance in 2009 and dealing with trust issues relating to it, and also giving some thought 
to how it might impact his own current trust and the monthly payments to the PIP. 
I should stress that without this additional information I would in any event be satisfied the 
advice was suitable and the complaint should not be upheld. But I mention it to provide some 
context and hopefully make my rationale for finding that the advice was reasonable and 
understood at the time a little clearer.     
I appreciate that Mr Ms children may not have been made fully aware of the circumstances of the investment and trust. But keeping them informed was ultimately the responsibility of 
Mr M as trustee and not BoS. The financial report did explain that it would be prudent to let 
them know, which I appreciate couldve been a bit more explicit. But I nevertheless think that 
sufficient information was provided to explain the advice and what should be done going 
forward.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman