DRN-4058775
The complaint
Mr A, Mr D and Mr M complain that their pension administrator Alltrust Services Limited 
(Alltrust) did not administer their pensions appropriately. The issue relates specifically to a 
loan made by Mr A, Mr D and Mr M through their SIPP syndicate to a Mr P. This loan was 
intended to be secured against Mr Ps property however when Mr P failed to repay the loan it 
was discovered the loan was unsecured. 
Mr A, Mr D and Mr M state that as their pension administrator it was Alltrust who bore the 
responsibility for ensuring the legal charge had been put in place correctly and as this was 
not done additional time and expenses were incurred in taking legal action against Mr P 
which has resulted in financial losses. 
Mr D is acting as the representative for all the complainants.
What happened
Mr A and Mr M originally loaned money via their Alltrust SIPPs to Mr P in 2013. The terms of 
this loan were not kept by Mr P and as such refinancing was proposed in March 2015. 
This refinancing involved a new loan agreement with Mr A, Mr M and Mr D jointly lending Mr 
P money from their Alltrust SIPPs. 
This new loan arrangement and the introduction of Mr Ds capital would allow Mr A and Mr M 
to access some of their pension commencement lump sums. In order to provide additional 
security, this second loan was to be secured against Mr Ps family home. 
Mr D recommended a solicitor firm (PL) to Alltrust for the required legal paperwork. PL were 
subsequently tasked with preparing the loan agreement. Alltrust confirmed to PL the loan 
particulars including the need for the loan to be secured and highlighting a potential issue 
around the fact Mr Ps wife - Mrs P - had joint ownership of the property. Mr D was copied 
into this email. 
PL provided draft documents to Alltrust on 23 April 2015, copying in Mr D. This confirmed 
Mrs P would need both legal and financial advice and offered to provide the legal advice. 
The financial advice element remained outstanding. This email also confirmed there was 
more than one option with regard to the property charge and asked for thoughts on which 
option was preferred. 
Mr D and Alltrust exchanged emails with PL in response to the above with changes to the 
documents being requested. 
On 29 May 2015 Alltrust emailed Mr D giving funding and cash position options for the loan / 
funds released. This email confirmed that: 
We can proceed on this basis however this is on the basis that the new loan 
agreement is signed by the borrower and agreed at today's date so that the re- 
capitalisation of the loan is agreed at £77,000. 
If it turns out that the borrower does not sign to agree to the new terms of this 
restructure this could have an effect on the benefits we have paid to the clients and 
would need to correct.
Mr D replied on the same day to confirm which option he would like to proceed with. 
PL provided amended documents to Alltrust (copying in Mr D) on 4 June 2015 with the 
requested changes to the loan document. The charge document was also provided and 
again stating Mrs P would need legal and financial advice before the charge could be put in 
place. Mr D confirmed that he should be able to get a colleague to provide Mrs P with 
relevant financial advice. 
Emails were exchanged by Mr D and Alltrust in June 2015 where it was confirmed that one 
of the lenders had received a proportion of his tax-free cash entitlement and that he was due 
to see the borrower (Mr P) to discuss the financial and legal issues previously highlighted. 
PL provided further updated documentation to Alltrust and Mr D with updated documentation 
(loan and charge documents) both of which still required signing. Also attached was an 
invoice for work completed with confirmation that Mr D was paying for this. 
On 25 June 2015 Alltrust provided updated figures to Mr D confirming the syndicates 
position. Partial tax-free cash had already been paid to Mr A and Mr D with this email 
confirming changes which would allow the remaining amounts to be paid. This email again 
confirmed the loan agreement had yet to be signed stating: 
Let me know If you agree my calculations and the respective ownerships and I will 
then let [PL] know so we can have the loan agreement signed.
Mr D replied to this the same day to agree with the figures quoted and asked for the relevant 
documents to be sent to a colleague who would arrange the signing of the loan documents. 
In July 2015 Alltrust emailed a colleague of Mr D (at his advice firm) again copying Mr D in, 
asking if he could arrange the signing of the loan agreement by Mr P and the property 
security form by both Mr and Mrs P. It was also confirmed at this time that full tax-free cash 
amounts had now been paid to Mr A and Mr M. The signed documents were re-requested in 
August and September 2015 when Alltrust confirmed to Mr D that neither the loan 
agreement nor the charge document had been received. Mr D confirmed he would chase 
this down. Alltrusts September communication confirmed that Mr P had not yet made a 
loan repayment. 
Mr D replied confirming that the relevant documentation was on his desk and that Mr P had 
been in hospital with Mr D trying to get in touch with him for a couple of weeks. 
Subsequently, a completed loan agreement was received by Alltrust (exact date unknown). 
The legal charge documents were, however, not received by Alltrust at this time. 
With no loan repayments from Mr P, Alltrust begin to chase repayment of the debt in 
September 2016. 
In January 2017 Alltrust emailed Mr D stating that the loan was secured on a property the 
borrower had recently moved away from. This also stated that Alltrust had been trying to 
locate the borrower for some time, however had run out of ways to do this. 
In November 2017 having requested copy documentation from PL it was realised that the 
loan was not secured on Mr Ps property. 
In April 2018 different solicitors DJM were appointed to chase the repayment of the debt. Following the realisation that the loan was not secured on Mr Ps property as intended, 
Alltrust, on behalf on syndicate, raised a complaint with PL. PL responded stating that: 
A draft loan was produced on the basis of the previous loan and was circulated for 
consideration, including a copy to Mr D who was one of lenders and made the 
referral to us. We did not agree with any parties the documents were in final format. 
Dialogue was then communicated regarding a charge over the borrowers residential 
home as security. We advised that security could not be taken over the home without 
wifes consent as a named title owner. We received no further instructions after 
communication regarding the charge and wifes consent and assumed the matter had 
aborted. We did not complete the loan, nor did we advise anyone to do so, nor were 
we advised that the loan would be completed by others without our knowledge.
The complaint against PL was not taken further as the matter was considered difficult to 
prove. 
Following the legal work carried out by DJM, a Summary Judgement was issued by the 
courts in November 2020 against Mr P with an award of around £116,880 made in favour of 
Mr A, Mr M and Mr D. 
Discussions between the loan syndicate, DJM and the borrowers family took place to 
consider the best way to repay debt. Allowing Mr P to voluntarily sell the property was 
considered however a decision was made to get a court to issue an order of sale for Mr Ps   
property. 
Once in place the sale of the property was completed. As the property remained jointly 
owned by Mr and Mrs P throughout the period noted above, only half of the sale proceeds 
were paid to the syndicate. After costs, this amounted to roughly £107,000. 
As such, an amount remains outstanding for which Mr P is liable. It has been noted however 
that Mr P has a lack of assets and repayment of the balance is not thought likely at this time. 
Given the full amount outstanding was not recovered, Mr D on behalf of the syndicate, raised 
a complaint with Alltrust. This stated that they were responsible for the loan not being 
secured on the property correctly and that had they acted sooner in chasing Mr P for 
repayment of the loan, the overall debt built up by Mr P could have been reduced which 
would them have allowed the full debt to be covered by Mr Ps 50% share of his home.
Alltrust responded in October 2020 rejecting the complaint. As such it was referred to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things and did not uphold the complaint. They noted that the 
chain of events above showed that all parties were aware the loan had not been secured 
against the property and as such Alltrust could not be held accountable. 
Mr D responded stating that this was not the case. Whilst he entered into a syndicate with Mr 
M and Mr A with funds moved between them in order to facilitate the release of tax-free 
cash, this was not the same as entering into a loan agreement with Mr P which should 
always have been secured against his property. In addition, Mr D again noted that Alltrusts 
failure to chase the non-repayment of the debt in a timely manner led to the debt building to 
the point where it exceeded 50% of the value of Mr Ps home causing losses to the 
syndicate.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision which stated:Firstly, it is clear the intention in this case was for the loan to be secured against the 
borrowers property and that this was not completed correctly. 
There were a number of parties involved in the chain of events above. The members of the 
syndicate, led by Mr D, Mr Ds colleagues at his advisory business, Alltrust and PL. 
From the chain of events above and the content of the communications between the parties 
involved it is clear that there was a degree of familiarity between Mr D, Alltrust and PL. It 
would appear that Mr D did, initially at least, appear to be the link between the parties 
involved and did take on the task of getting the relevant documentation signed by Mr and 
Mrs P. 
It may have been the case that this familiarity between the parties involved led to a blurring 
of the areas of responsibility and the usual processes not being followed in the correct order. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ds point that entering into the syndicate is not the same as entering 
into a formal loan agreement, the fact remains that one of the primary purposes of the 
refinancing of the 2013 loan was to release tax-free cash for Mr A and Mr M. It is clear that 
this release of cash was completed at a time when all parties were fully aware the relevant 
loan documentation (including securing the debt against Mr Ps property) was incomplete. 
Our investigator concluded that as all parties were aware of this, Alltrust could not be held 
accountable and rejected the complaint. 
Having considered the evidence and chain of events above I have reached the same 
conclusion. 
It was Mr D who was to get the relevant documentation signed by Mr and Mrs P, with 
communication in July, August and September 2015 confirming that Mr D was aware the 
relevant documentation was outstanding and showing that it was him who would chase 
this.
There is no suggestion within any of the communication provided that the task of gathering 
the relevant signatures was passed on to anyone else to complete (other than Mr Ds work 
colleagues when Mr D was on holiday) and as such I do not consider it reasonable to hold 
anybody else responsible for the property security form not being signed. 
Additionally, our investigator noted that once a case has been to court and an amount 
awarded that would normally be the end of the matter. This is because a decision by a court 
of law would be considered to supersede any decision I could make. 
The two issues raised by Mr D are whether Alltrust are at fault for the loan not being secured 
correctly and secondly, whether their actions in chasing repayment of the loan were 
negligent in allowing the debt to build to such a high level. 
In issuing a judgement against Mr P, the courts have made him solely responsible for the 
initial loan amount, lost interest, and identifiable costs at that time. 
Even If I were to find against Alltrust and deem them responsible for the property charge not 
being enacted correctly, and subsequently require them to make payment to Mr D, Mr M and 
Mr A, this could be seen to contradict the court order as this made Mr P solely responsible 
for the losses incurred resulting from his non-payment of the debt. 
Moving on to Alltrusts actions in chasing repayment of the debt, again I consider the court 
order to have dealt with this. The order issued accounted for interest owed from the date of the loan to the date of the 
order. Whilst this did amount to more than Mr Ps 50% share in his family home, the excess 
amount remains payable by Mr P. 
If Alltrust had chased repayment sooner, it may have been the case that the court order 
would have been for a lower amount and that this lower amount would subsequently have 
been recoverable in full following the forced sale of Mr Ps home. However, the court order 
has already been made and it would be inappropriate for me to re-assess how much Mr P 
could have owed had Alltrust acted differently. 
Had Mr P been able to pay the amount dictated in the court order, there would have been no 
losses incurred by Mr D, Mr M and Mr A. The fact Mr P has not paid the full amount does not 
make anyone else liable for the outstanding balance. Mr P remains liable for the amount not 
yet repaid and it would be inappropriate for me to reallocate the debt  decided on by a 
court  from Mr P to Alltrust. 
I appreciate that this is not the decision Mr D, Mr M and Mr A wanted, and that there does 
remain a debt outstanding to them that they are unlikely to see repaid, however, the courts 
have concluded that the debt is Mr Ps to repay.
Within my provisional decision I asked all parties to provide any additional commentary or 
evidence before 31 March 2023.
Alltrust did not respond.
Mr D responded noting that an additional issue around charges levied by Alltrust had not 
been considered and that further evidence from former Alltrust employees would be 
supplied.
I would note here that the charges issue is covered under a separate complaint reference 
with a separate decision issued, and as such has not been discussed here.
Additionally, the additional evidence referenced by Mr D has not been supplied within the 
timescales given in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As above, following the issuance of my provisional decision neither party have provided any 
additional commentary or evidence relating to this complaint and as such I have concluded 
the provisional decision issued provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the issues at 
hand, therefore I am not making any changes to it.
For the reasons documented above I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Mr D and Mr 
M to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 John Rogowski
Ombudsman