DRN-2529687
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt send him the standard 
paper statements on a monthly basis as requested. He is also unhappy that NatWest sent 
his correspondence to the wrong address and that he was asked for personal information 
outside of the branch.
What happened
Mr H has told us that hes been experiencing problems receiving paper statements over two 
years. He says he needs the paper statements so that he can give them to his accountant 
and its more convenient for him when working. He also says he received some information, 
but it wasnt the standard statements he expected to receive.
As he didnt receive the statements, he made a visit to a local branch. However, hes 
concerned that before going in he was asked personal questions outside where his answers 
could be overheard. 
In addition to this, he says his correspondence was sent to the wrong customer. And that 
customer contacted him directly about it. Therefore, he called NatWest in July 2020 to 
complain. 
The call handler considered his complaint and NatWest also wrote to Mr H in July 2020. 
NatWest agreed that the branch hadnt approached the questions in the right way. They also 
accepted that a letter had been sent to the wrong address. They offered £80 compensation 
for the inconvenience. 
 
However, NatWest said they couldnt explain why he hadnt received the paper statements 
as their records showed that they were produced and there was no block on his account that 
would restrict dispatch. They also explained that his address was correct on the system.  
NatWest wrote to Mr H again in July 2020 and confirmed statements had been produced. 
So, they were uncertain why the statements hadnt been delivered. They confirmed the 
frequency was set to monthly. They also confirmed they had reordered the statements.
 
Mr H remained unhappy and didnt accept NatWests offer. He asked us to investigate. The 
investigator felt that NatWests offer of £80 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
and didnt ask them to do anything further. Mr H didnt agree with the view and was 
disappointed as he felt that the issues had been ongoing for a couple of years and he had 
spent a lot of time trying to sort them out.
  
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Incorrect address
Ive listened to the call Mr H had with NatWest in July 2020 and note that NatWest have 
accepted correspondence was sent to the wrong address. Ive also seen the 
correspondence Mr H had with the third party who received his post. 
I appreciate this would have been very frustrating for Mr H and he would have been worried 
about his information. Ill come back to how things should be put right below. 
Branch visit 
Mr H has also expressed concern that he was asked for his bank card and reason for his 
visit when queuing outside of the branch. He was unhappy because there were other 
customers who could have overheard. 
Ive listened to the call from July 2020 when Mr H raised this. The call handler accepted this 
wasnt the correct approach, although there had been changes to the procedures as a result 
of the global pandemic. He confirmed he would give feedback to the branch. I agree that 
NatWest should be mindful of the environment when asking personal questions. And I 
understand why this would have been frustrating for Mr H. Ill come back to this below.   
Paper statements 
NatWest have provided their system notes which show statements being produced on a 
monthly basis. It only shows a six-month history and NatWest have confirmed this is the time 
period for displaying statement production. Ive considered this and I dont find the records to 
be unusual. Theyve also provided a screenshot which show paper statements are selected 
for the account. Additionally, theyve provided the address details they have on the account 
which I can see were correct. Theyve also explained that they arent aware of any errors 
effecting customers receiving paper statements. 
Ive seen NatWest wrote to Mr H on 30 March 2020 and confirmed theyd ordered the 
statements as requested. I understand from what Mr H has told us that these also werent 
received. NatWest wrote to Mr H and sent a copy of the transaction history list in July. In this 
letter, they confirmed theyd checked his account and couldnt identify any errors. They did 
provide an incorrect reference to Mr Hs address, but NatWest has since confirmed that this 
was an error in the letter only and not on their systems. This explanation seems reasonable 
and is consistent with the records theyve provided. 
I understand Mr H received account information, but it wasnt in the format he required. For 
example, it didnt show his total outgoings and incomings. And this is what he discussed with 
the call handler in July 2020. I can see in NatWests final response, they confirmed theyd 
reordered the statements. They also reiterated that the preferences on his account were set 
correctly and they could see no errors. 
NatWest have provided a screenshot from their system confirming they were generated and 
sent. Ive seen an internal note from August 2020 in which NatWest confirmed dispatching 
the statements and I can see the correct address was used. Again, I cant explain why these 
werent received by Mr H but it does seem NatWest sent them.
 
I appreciate Mr H hasnt been receiving his statements and strongly feels NatWest are at 
fault for this. But I must weigh this up in respect of the evidence theyve been able to show 
from their systems. Having done so, Im satisfied its likely that NatWest produced and sent the paper statements in line with Mr Hs preferences. I understand my decision will be very 
disappointing for Mr H as I cant explain why he didnt receive them. I want to assure him Ive 
thought carefully about what hes said and the impact this has had on him. I appreciate that 
he spent his own time trying to rectify things. But the evidence satisfies me that paper 
statements were being sent to Mr Hs correct address and I cant say NatWest have done 
anything wrong here. 
 
Putting things right
I appreciate Mr H has been caused frustration by the service he received. His 
correspondence was sent to the wrong address and he was asked for personal information 
outside of the branch. I understand he is worried about his personal information.
 
In their response to the complaint, NatWest made an offer to pay £80 compensation. Ive 
considered the facts of this case and Im content this appropriately recognises the emotional 
impact and inconvenience caused here.  
Its also worth noting that in addition to offering compensation, NatWest apologised, reported 
the data breach and provided feedback to the branch.
My final decision
To settle the complaint National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £80 
compensation. This offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £80 to Mr H.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman