DRN-2909199
The complaint
Mrs W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt fully settled a cancellation claim 
she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with her building society.
Mrs W was due to fly abroad in October 2020. She was planning to travel between two 
islands and stay in hotels on both. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to the country 
she was intending to fly to. So Mrs W cancelled her trip. She was able to recover some costs 
but made a claim on her policy for the remaining expenses associated with cancelling the 
trip.
UKI asked Mrs W for some more information about her claim  including whether the hotel 
providers would offer a refund of Mrs Ws booking costs. One hotel, which Ill refer to as S, 
offered Mrs W a credit voucher, for the value of her booking, which would be valid for 18 
months. On this basis, UKI turned down Mrs Ws claim for the costs of her accommodation 
with S. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a policyholders suffered. As S 
had offered Mrs W a credit note for the full value of her booking; UKI said she hadnt 
suffered a financial loss. It also said the policy terms specifically excluded losses which 
could recovered from elsewhere. It told Mrs W that if she was unhappy with S offer, shed 
need to take it up with it.
Mrs W was unhappy with UKIs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She thought that as S had 
offered her a credit note, the loss for this booking was recoverable. She also considered that 
as the credit note for the booking with S was valid for 18 months, its terms werent unfairly 
restrictive. Overall, she felt it was fair for UKI to turn down Mrs Ws claim for her 
accommodation costs with S.
Mrs W disagreed. She said she didnt think a voucher was reasonable and she didnt think it 
put her in the same financial position as if the claim had been paid. Thats because the FCO 
was still advising against travel to the country she was planning to fly to, so she didnt know 
if or when she could use the voucher. If she did travel, shed undoubtedly be in a worse 
position, due to current Covid-19 regulations. She told us that the hotel stay formed part of 
an overall trip to celebrate an occasion  she had no intention of using S voucher. And she 
said S costs had now gone up, meaning shed have to pay more to stay in the hotel for the 
same period of time than the voucher is worth.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not telling UKI to pay Mrs Ws claim for the cost of her booking with S. 
Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of their claim to 
decide whether UKI handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mrs Ws contract with UKI. 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused costs 
a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is the 
FCO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. In 
this case, theres no dispute that Mrs Ws holiday was cancelled as a result of the FCO 
advising against all but essential travel at the point she was due to travel. So I can 
understand why Mrs W feel that UKI should pay her claim for her unused accommodation 
costs with S. 
But the cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of things that UKI doesnt cover. 
One of these states that UKI wont pay for recoverable losses. The policy sets out what UKI 
means by recoverable losses. It defines the term as: any costs that you can recover from 
elsewhere. UKI says that because S has offered Mrs W a credit note for the full value of her 
booking; she hasnt suffered a financial loss which is covered by the policy. And I think the 
policy wording makes it clear that UKI doesnt cover costs which can be recovered from 
elsewhere. 
Ive next considered the terms of S credit voucher. Ive seen a copy of an email from S and 
a copy of the voucher itself. The voucher was sent on 3 October 2020 and states that it 
would be valid for 18 months, from the date of the initial booking. The terms of the voucher 
also say that its value is for the same amount as the original booking. Ive noted too that the 
voucher can be put towards more than one booking.
So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mrs W hadnt suffered a financial loss for this 
booking, because the credit note would cover the full value of her pre-booked 
accommodation. And S offered Mrs W 18 months to make use of the credit note. I dont think 
it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mrs W mightve been in a position to use the 
credit note before it was due to expire in March 2022. And in my view, the terms of the credit 
note arent overly restrictive. 
I can understand why Mrs W might prefer to get a cash refund for her booking with S. 
Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans are currently uncertain and I appreciate 
that shes told us that she wont be using the voucher. But taking everything into account, I 
think it was fair for UKI to consider that Mrs W hasnt suffered a financial loss for her booking 
with S in the circumstances of this case. So I think it was fair for UKI to turn down her claim 
for the costs associated with this hotel booking.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman