DRN-3246030
The complaint
Miss M is complaining that a car Moneybarn No. 1 Limited supplied her under a conditional 
sale agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2020 Miss M entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a car. The car 
had a cash price of around £7,000, it was around seven years old and had travelled around 
91,500 miles at the point of supply.
In December 2020 Miss M contacted Moneybarn to complain about issues shed had with 
the car, namely the clutch had failed, it needed a new flywheel and also issues with the 
gears. She also stopped making her monthly payments.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The engineer concluded the 
flywheel had come to the end of its life due to wear and tear. He said Miss Ms car had 
travelled a further 4,600 miles since supply, so he didnt think the fault was present when 
Miss M first acquired it. Given this, Moneybarn didnt think it was responsible for the repair 
cost.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said the independent inspection concluded 
the failure was down to wear and tear and she didnt think the fault was present at the point 
of supply, given the miles Miss M had travelled.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said she hadnt travelled 4,600 miles 
since she got the car. She said shed only had it around three months and used it to go on 
the school run. She didnt think a reasonable person would expect to have to replace the 
flywheel so soon after acquisition. She also said she was unhappy it had taken Moneybarn 
around six months to respond to her complaint. 
As Miss M didnt agree with the investigator, she asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Miss M acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the agreement that the car must be of 
satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Moneybarn is responsible for the 
quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute that theres a fault 
with the car, but the issue is whether it was present at the time of sale, and whether that fault 
makes the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Miss M paid around 
£7,000 for the car. The car was around seven years old and had travelled around 91,500 
miles at the point of supply. 
The issue here is whether those problems were likely to have been present or developing at 
the time of sale, as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used car. Ive also 
considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems such as Miss M 
has experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short is the car sufficiently 
durable. 
I can understand why Miss M is so unhappy to incur such a cost to have to replace the 
flywheel around four months after acquiring the car. But she didnt acquire a new car and it 
had travelled over 91,000 miles when Moneybarn supplied it to her. So she needed to 
expect it to have suffered some wear and tear when she got it and that it wouldnt be fault 
free for as long as a newer car. Its the risk one takes by acquiring a car with higher mileage. 
I note Miss M disputes she had travelled the number of miles the independent engineer says 
shed done. But I understand this mileage was taken from the cars odometer. And I havent 
seen anything to support she hadnt travelled this mileage. But, irrespective of this, she had 
used the car continuously for over three months before any failures first arose and around 
four months before the flywheel failed. 
Miss M wouldnt have been able to drive the car with a failed flywheel. So I dont think the 
fault was present at the point of supply and this was also the opinion of the independent 
engineer. I do not dispute the faults may have been developing at the point of supply. But, as 
I said above, Miss M couldnt reasonably expect the car to be fault free when she acquired it 
due to the number of miles it had already travelled. 
It's also to note that the flywheel, clutch and gearbox are all wearable parts  i.e. they are 
likely to break over time owing to usage. Importantly, the independent engineer has 
concluded the fault was down to wear and tear. I naturally sympathise with the situation 
Miss M has found herself in. But, given what Ive said above, I cant say the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I also note Miss M is unhappy with the length of time Moneybarn took to review her 
complaint. I do think it took longer than it should have done  it took around five months for 
Moneybarn to issue its final response on her complaint. I note it needed to request further 
evidence from Miss M and it was also fair for it to arrange an independent engineer. But it 
seems it took around two and a half months to start investigating her complaint in the first 
place. 
I recognise Moneybarn were suffering a number of operational challenges at the time  not 
least due to the impact caused by Covid-19. But I think it could have looked at this complaint 
sooner. That said, Im not persuaded Miss M has significantly lost out because of this delay 
because, ultimately, shes in the position shes in because she disagrees with Moneybarns 
decision to not cover the cost of repairs. And, as I said above, I dont think this decision was 
unfair. So I dont think Moneybarn needs to compensate her for this delay. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022. Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman