DRN-3013397
The complaint
Mr P complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc when he was the victim of a scam 
in which he sent money to one of their customers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In March 2019 Mr P was unfortunately the victim of an 
investment scam. 
On 20 March 2019, Mr P sent around £50,000, spread across six payments (from his own 
account held with another payment service provider) to the scammers account held with 
HSBC. Mr P believes that HSBC should reimburse his loss as they allowed a scammer to 
open and operate an account. 
Ultimately HSBC declined to reimburse the loss and a complaint was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained that I couldnt consider 
HSBCs actions when opening the account in question. This was broadly because Mr P 
wasnt an eligible complainant in relation to that aspect of his complaint under the rules that 
govern our service. I explained this was because account opening took place before the 
introduction of the relevant new relationship to our jurisdiction rules that allows me to 
consider certain complaints about a receiving payment service providers/banks actions 
where the complainant has fallen victim to alleged authorised push payment (APP) fraud.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and I recognise that he made the payments as the result of a 
scam. But it would only be fair for me to tell HSBC to reimburse this loss if I think (within my 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint) that they are responsible for it. I dont think they are, 
and Ill explain why. 
The primary duty of a bank, such as HSBC is to follow their customers instructions and 
make payments as directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms 
and conditions of the account held. But it also has regulatory and legal obligations to monitor 
its business relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include 
giving consideration to unusual and out of character transactions. 
Ive looked at the history of the account into which Mr Ps funds were paid. And I cant say 
there was any account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to HSBC as 
suspicious or significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. 
Mr P has made reference to the BSI code of practice on protecting customers from financial 
harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. He believes HSBC have failed to adhere to this 
code of practice. Ive considered this but I dont agree. I accept that HSBC are obliged to be 
alert to unusual or out of character transactions. But I dont think the way in which Mr Ps 
funds left the account was unusual enough to warrant intervention by HSBC. Ive also taken 
into account his incoming payments (which wouldnt generally be a consideration under the 
code hes referenced as that primarily deals with a banks own customer being at risk), but I 
likewise dont think HSBC can fairly be criticised for not deeming those to be unusual or 
suspicious in relation to that particular account.  
Im also satisfied there was no notification of fraud (before Mr Ps funds had all already been 
removed) and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that HSBC might have 
had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions. Because I dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where I 
would have expected them to have intervened, I cant fairly say that they could have 
prevented Mr Ps loss in that way.
HSBC were notified of the fraud in May 2019. By this time all of Mr Ps funds had already 
been removed from the account. And I think HSBC responded promptly when dealing with 
the notification of fraud. I dont think HSBC could have done more to try to recover Mr Ps 
money and its unfortunate their efforts were unsuccessful. 
Mr P has also referenced the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is a voluntary 
code which HSBC have signed up to which often can assist victims of scams to obtain a 
refund from the banks involved. He says that as he wasnt grossly negligent, he should get a 
refund. But unfortunately, the CRM wasnt introduced until after Mr Ps payments had 
already been made, and its provisions arent retrospective. As the CRM doesnt apply to this 
complaint, I cant use its provisions as a reason to ask HSBC to refund the loss. 
Mr P has also pointed out that he believes he is vulnerable. He highlights that banks have 
additional responsibilities in relation to vulnerable customers. Im sorry to hear of the health 
issues that Mr P has described. I agree and accept that I would generally expect banks to 
take account of customers vulnerabilities and to treat them fairly and appropriately. But in 
the circumstances of this complaint, Mr P isnt a customer of HSBC. 
The decision I have to make here is whether there were failings in HSBCs actions (in 
relation to their accountholder) that caused or prevented the recovery of Mr Ps loss. Mr Ps 
vulnerability doesnt impact on that assessment. And whilst I can of course empathise with 
the difficulties Mr P has described and the difficult situation he is in, this isnt a basis upon 
which I can reasonably ask HSBC to return his money. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman