DRN-3517964
The complaint
Mr C and Miss J are unhappy with Astrenska Insurance Limiteds (Astrenska) decision to 
decline their claim. Mr C and Miss J also feel they should receive a refund of some of their 
insurance premium. 
What happened
Mr C and Miss J have explained that on 12 February 2021 they booked some flights to take 
them abroad. The flights were booked for 20 July 2021. Mr C and Miss J said they were due 
to travel to visit family, with Mr C and Miss J returning to the UK on 31 July 2021, and their 
children staying on abroad for longer. 
However, on 17 July 2020, Mr C and Miss J were sent a letter from their childs school. The 
letter explained that their child had been in close contact with someone who had tested 
positive for Coronavirus. And because of this, they needed to self-isolate, with the end of this 
period being 25 July 2021. This meant Mr C, Miss J and their children werent able to make 
their outward flight as planned. Mr C and Miss J said they werent able to change their 
annual leave, to take into account the circumstances either. So, they were no longer able to 
go on their trip.
Because they were no longer able to go on their trip, Mr C and Miss J lost the cost of their 
flights. So, they contacted their insurer, to claim for this loss.
Astrenska declined Mr C and Miss Js claim. They said the policy didnt provide cover for the 
situation Mr C and Miss J were claiming for. Astrenska said for the policy to respond, the 
loss needed to have been due to an insured event listed within Mr C and Miss Js policy 
booklet. And the need to cancel their trip because of having to self-isolate wasnt an insured 
event listed. Further than this, Astrenska said that the policy specifically excluded claims 
arising from the need to self-isolate because of the coronavirus pandemic.
Mr C and Miss J were unhappy with this. They explained they had used the same travel 
insurance provider for years, and never had to claim under their policy before. And when 
they had come to make this claim, it was unreasonable for it to be declined. Mr C and Miss J 
also said they wanted their annual multi-trip insurance policy to be cancelled  and a refund 
of the premium they paid  which was £46.29.
Astrenska responded to this too. It said it was able to cancel the policy. But that no refund 
would be due to Mr C and Miss J. It said a refund was only available within the 14-day 
cooling-off period provided. Mr C and Miss J hadnt requested a refund in that time, so no 
refund was due to them.
Mr C and Miss J remained unhappy, and so raised a complaint about the matter. Astrenska 
maintained its position. And so, Mr C and Miss J referred their complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said the policy documentation was clear in saying that it didnt cover Mr C and 
Miss Js loss. So, she was satisfied Astrenska had acted in line with the policy in place when 
declining the claim.
In terms of a refund for the insurance policy, our investigator didnt consider a refund was 
due either. Our investigator said this was because the request to cancel the policy had come 
after the 14-day cooling-off period noted within the policy. And the policy had been clear in 
what cover it did and didnt provide for coronavirus when it renewed. Our investigator noted 
that when Mr C and Miss Js policy renewed, they would have known about coronavirus, and 
the possibility of a trip cancellation due to it. So, with coronavirus being a known event at the 
time, she didnt think it was reasonable to ask Astrenska to step outside of the policy  and 
industry rules  and provide any form of premium refund.
Mr C and Miss J didnt agree. They explained they were a busy working family, and so it 
wasnt unreasonable for them to allow the policy to renew  and miss the 14-day cooling-off 
period. They also noted that the money theyd lost on flights was a large amount. And given 
their circumstances, and loyalty to Astrenska over the years, they considered it reasonable 
for a gesture of goodwill to be provided to them.
Because Mr C and Miss J didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
Decline of the claim
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether Astrenska, in declining this claim, acted in line with these 
requirements. And Im satisfied it did.
Ive reviewed Mr C and Miss Js policy documentation. And as is usual with policies of this 
nature, I can see it doesnt cover every eventuality. Rather, for a claim to be successful, the 
loss needs to have happened because of an insured event listed within the policy booklet. 
And there need to be no exclusions that apply in the circumstances. If the loss isnt due to 
one of those listed events, or an exclusion applies, it isnt covered, and the policy wont 
respond.
Ive considered the insured events listed under the cancellation section of Mr C and Miss Js 
policy. And none of those listed are for the need to cancel a trip, because of being required 
to self-isolate. And, under the what is not covered part of the cancellation section, the 
following is detailed:
Any claims related directly or indirectly to coronavirus (COVID-19) apart from You are 
Covered event 1.
()
Claims due to coronavirus (COVID-19) arising from you following advice from a government 
to self-isolate. This includes, but is not limited to, you receiving a letter advising self-isolation 
for you or a family member, or you are contacted by a track and trace service.Given this, Im aware the policy specifically excludes cancellation of a trip due to 
coronavirus, unless it falls into event 1 (which this case doesnt), and the need to self-isolate 
as a result of Covid-19. Mr C and Miss J received a letter about self-isolation from the 
school, following government guidance, and a risk assessment from public health England 
advisors. As the above policy term notes this isnt covered, Im satisfied Astrenska acted 
fairly in declining Mr C and Miss Js claim. 
Premium refund
Mr C and Miss J feel they should at least receive a refund of the premium they paid for their 
policy. So, Ive thought carefully about this. But I dont think Astrenska needs to provide any 
premium refund in this instance. So, Im not requiring it to take any action here either.
Mr C and Miss J had purchased an annual multi-trip insurance policy, for £46.29. The policy 
was to cover the year running 15 June 2021 to 14 June 2022. So, Ive thought about the 
rules, regulations and law in relation to this policy, as well as what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. So, I wont 
repeat these again in detail here. Except to say these rules, regulations and law provide for 
some premium refund, under the 14-day cooling off period. But provide no requirement for 
an insurer to provide a premium refund after this period.
Mr C and Miss J purchased their insurance policy on its renewal and didnt cancel the policy 
within this 14-day cooling off period. I do appreciate Mr C and Miss J have said they are a 
busy working family, and so allowed the policy to renew, and run over the 14-day cooling off 
period. But this point doesnt alter the industry rules, guidelines. Or Mr C and Miss Js policy 
terms, which note that a premium refund isnt due after these 14 days. Mr C and Miss J did 
have the responsibility to check their documents and cancel the cover within 14-days if they 
didnt require it, or felt it wasnt sufficient for their needs.
As above, Mr C and Miss Js policy ran from 15 June 2021. And from this point they were 
covered for the risk of a claim occurring, under various insured events. Astrenska were 
covering the risk of a claim occurring, and the premiums charged to Mr C and Miss J 
reflected this.
Mr C and Miss Js policy information, including the insurance product information document 
made it clear claims arising from coronavirus were only covered in particular situations. So, 
Mr C and Miss J were provided with the information they needed to make an informed 
choice, as to whether the policy was suitable for them. And they proceeded with the policy.
I also need to bear in mind that when Mr C and Miss Js policy renewed coronavirus was a 
known event. Coronavirus had been declared a global pandemic by the World Health 
Organisation (WHO) on 11 March 2020. And the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development 
office (FCDO) had previously advised against all but essential travel due to the pandemic 
(the beginning of such advice being 17 March 2020). So, Mr C and Miss J would, and should 
reasonably have been aware, that there may have been a need to cancel their trip because 
of coronavirus. And that they might not have full use of the policy if their trip was cancelled 
as a result of the pandemic.Given then above, it wouldnt be fair to require Astrenska to go further the both the industry 
rules, and the policy terms, to provide a refund to Mr C and Miss J. For that reason, Im not 
requiring Astrenska to provide any premium refund.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Astrenska Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman