DRN-3058408
The complaint
Ms M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) have 
unfairly closed her account, recorded adverse information on her credit file and failed to treat 
her fairly when she was unable to make a payment after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known, so I wont repeat everything again in great 
detail. In summary, Ms Ms points of complaint include (but are not strictly limited to): 
AmEx recorded three late payment markers on her credit file despite previously 
telling her they wouldnt do this if she provided a reference number for the scam she 
fell victim to.
They kept on asking for different information and each time she provided what they 
had asked for, they would ask for something more. She also didnt receive any 
response when AmEx said they would check whether they required a copy of her 
bank statements. 
They didnt notify her that they were closing her account and failed to take into 
account her circumstances and the financial difficulty she was experiencing after 
losing her money to a scam. AmEx showed her no flexibility or support.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that AmEx had informed Ms M 
of the account closure and thought they had ended the agreement fairly as she had missed 
three repayments. He also didnt think they had acted unfairly by recording the missed 
payments on her credit file, as this was what they were obliged to do in circumstances where 
payments had not been made. Ms M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below.
Ms M submits that AmEx closed her account in breach of her agreement with them. The 
terms and conditions of Ms Ms account set out:
This agreement is open ended and had no fixed duration. You and we can end it 
without giving any reason. You can do this at any time by calling us or writing to us 
(our contact details are at the beginning of this agreement) to tell us to close your 
account and by paying off all the amounts you owe.
We can do this by giving you at least two months written notice, but we may end this 
agreement immediately if:
you repeatedly fail to pay the account balance or go over any spending limit.
So the terms and conditions of Ms Ms account allow AmEx to close her account 
immediately if she repeatedly failed to pay her account balance, and I can see that she didnt 
make payments throughout April, May and June 2020. So I dont consider that AmEx have 
closed her account in breach of the terms and conditions as these circumstances clearly 
entitle them to take such action in line with the agreement. However, I would still expect 
AmEx to have told Ms M about the action they were planning to take.
Ms M says that AmEx failed to tell her. However, I can see that AmEx wrote to her on 
19 May 2020 where they explained the were undertaking a review of her account, and then 
again on 26 May 2020 where they requested that Ms M pay the outstanding balance of her 
account:
This communication is our final demand for payment. Your American Express 
Charge Card will be cancelled if the full payment is not made within 14 calendar days 
of the date of this communication.
This is your last chance to make payment before your account is cancelled. 
AmEx sent a further letter on 17 June 2020 where they informed Ms M that her agreement 
had been cancelled and her account closed. This was after several phone calls were had 
between Ms M and AmEx, where she was asked to provide evidence of the scam regarding 
her account with Barclays for them to consider further  such as documents on Barclays 
headed paper that included the dates and details of the scam she fell victim to. However, I 
can see that Ms M had only provided photos of partial bits of letters that didnt include all the 
information AmEx had requested, and she eventually told them on 3 June 2020 that she had 
given everything she was willing to share. I appreciate that this was during the Covid-19 
pandemic and lockdown, but I dont think this wouldve ultimately prevented Ms M from 
providing what AmEx had requested. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for AmEx to have requested further 
evidence of the scam Ms M fell victim to, as it was necessary in order for them to consider 
the impact it had had on her, including her ability to make repayments. I appreciate that 
Ms M found it frustrating being asked for different things, but it seems that AmEx were only 
doing this in an attempt to get to the bottom of Ms Ms situation, which they werent able to 
do fully with the information she had provided. 
So, I dont consider that AmEx have acted unfairly by cancelling Ms Ms agreement. They 
telephoned and wrote to her giving the opportunity to make the repayments, but no such 
payments were made. Therefore, Im satisfied the account was closed fairly and in line with 
the terms and conditions. AmEx has also provided her with a pro-rata refund of the account 
fee she paid, and also converted her points towards repaying the outstanding balance, so 
Im not persuaded that Ms M is due any further refund in this instance.
Ms M is also unhappy about the late payment markers that have been recorded on her credit 
file, as she says AmEx told her that she didnt need to make any repayments and that no 
adverse information would be recorded. However, I havent seen any evidence to support 
that this was what Ms M was told. Like all other credit providers, AmEx are under an 
obligation to provide accurate information to credit reference agencies. So it seems unlikely 
they would have promised Ms M that no adverse information would be recorded if she failed 
to make her repayments. I appreciate that Ms M considers she didnt receive the help and support she needed from 
AmEx when she was going through a very difficult time. But AmEx had clearly set out what 
they needed to see in order to fully consider her situation, and Ms M didnt provide it (I can 
see, for example, that she refused to provide them with a screenshot of her bank statements 
and wasnt willing to provide anything further). So I dont think AmEx can fairly or reasonably 
be expected to have done anything further to support Ms M when they hadnt been given the 
evidence and details theyd requested. 
I understand Ms M is also unhappy with the way in which AmEx handled her complaint. 
However, as outlined by the investigator before me, complaint handling is not an activity 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. which means it is not something this service is 
able to consider. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms M, and Im sorry to hear about the 
difficult circumstances she has found herself in. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded 
that AmEx has acted unfairly or unreasonably, so I will not be directing them to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman