DRN-3669640
The complaint
Miss G complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt treated her fairly after she 
made a claim on her building warranty policy.
What happened
In 2014, Miss G bought a new-build apartment. The completion date was 24 May 2014. The 
property is covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. There are two sections of the 
policy that are relevant to this complaint: section 2 and section 3. 
Section 2 covers the builders liability period (years 0-2), and section 3 covers NHBCs 
liability period (years 3-10).
If the common parts arent affected by the claim, the section 2 notification period is two years 
from the date of completion. But if the common parts are affected, the section 2 notification 
period is either three years from the first date of completion for the homes sharing the 
common parts, or, if earlier, two years from the last date of completion for the homes 
sharing the common parts.
The notification period for section 3 is eight years, and it simply follows section 2, i.e. the 
section 3 notification period starts the day after the section 2 notification period ends. 
Therefore, the start date of the section 3 notification period depends on whether the 
common parts are affected by the claim.
Under section 2, the original builder is responsible for putting right any defect or damage 
thats reported during the relevant section 2 notification period. The policy terms define a 
defect as a breach of any mandatory NHBC requirement, and damage as physical 
damage caused by a defect.
However, if theres a dispute between the homeowner and the builder about issues raised 
under section 2, NHBC can, at its discretion, offer its resolution service. If NHBC issues a 
resolution report requiring the builder to act, and the homeowner accepts the report in full, 
but the builder fails to comply, NHBC becomes responsible for those required actions.
Under section 3, NHBC is responsible for putting right damage in certain parts of the 
building, thats reported during the relevant section 3 notification period.
On the day of completion, the builder completed a demonstration report. The report noted 
the living room window and the kitchen window were leaking. Miss G went on to make a 
section 2 claim. 
In February 2016, NHBC issued a resolution report. The report noted the builder had carried 
out various works to the faade, which had resolved the water ingress issues at Miss Gs 
apartment. So, NHBC didnt require the builder to act in relation to the water ingress.
In July 2016, NHBC issued a second resolution report. The report noted the water ingress 
had returned at the curved lounge window. NHBC required the builder to investigate the 
cause and to ensure NHBCs technical requirements were met by 12 September 2016.
In February 2020, NHBC issued a third resolution report. The report noted there were water 
ingress issues at the curved lounge window, the dining area window, the master bedroom 
window, and the small bedroom window. However, NHBC said only leaks at the curved 
lounge window were reported within the section 2 notification period. So, NHBC didnt 
consider the other windows were suitable for resolution. 
NHBCs third resolution report required the builder to undertake works to the curved lounge 
window by 21 July 2020, to ensure NHBCs technical requirements were met. Because the 
builder failed to do so, NHBC became responsible for those works under the contract of 
insurance. 
Miss G went on to complain about delays in relation to the curved lounge window works, and 
about NHBCs decision not to consider any of the other leaking windows. In July 2021, 
NHBC issued a final response to Miss Gs complaint. NHBC set out the following:
- In respect of the curved lounge window, because the window frame and surrounding 
cladding are common parts, a cash settlement would be paid to the managing agent 
for it to complete the work.
- In November 2020, NHBC asked the managing agent for an investigation quote. A 
quote was received in January 2021. NHBC asked for more detail in relation to the 
quote, which was received; but NHBC tried to get the original builder to undertake 
the investigations instead. NHBC said it would now take over the investigations. 
NHBC offered Miss G £600 compensation for the delays.
- NHBC accepted the water ingress at the kitchen window was first raised within two 
years of the completion date. However, NHBC said it wouldnt be considering any 
other items under its resolution service as the section 2 notification period for the 
common parts had expired before Miss G bought her apartment. NHBC noted it 
shouldnt have provided its resolution service for the curved lounge window, but 
having done so, it was committed to dealing with that item. 
In December 2021, one of our investigators concluded £600 was fair compensation for the 
delays relating to the curved lounge window. However, he didnt think we could consider 
other parts of Miss Gs complaint. Because Miss G was unhappy with our investigators 
outcome, her complaint was passed to me to decide.
In August 2022, I issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what points we can, and cant, 
consider. In my decision, I explained:
- We can consider matters relating to the curved lounge window, and whether NHBC 
should have considered the other windows under section 3.
- We cant consider the findings of NHBCs resolution service in relation to the other 
windows, or NHBCs decision not to offer its resolution service for some windows. 
In August 2022, I also set out my provisional findings about the matters we can consider. In 
that provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive carefully considered all of Miss Gs submissions. However, it isnt my role to comment 
on every point or to answer every question raised. Its for me to determine the crux of the 
complaint, and to address the issues I consider relevant to its outcome. Where Ive not 
directly commented on points or responded to questions that are within our jurisdiction, 
this isnt intended as a discourtesy. Its simply a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service, its remit, and my role in it. 
Im only considering events up to 19 July 2021, i.e. the date of NHBCs final response letter. 
If Miss G has complaints points about events since 19 July 2021, she needs to put those to 
NHBC first, so it has an opportunity to respond.
Are the common parts affected?
Miss G argues her windows arent common parts of the building. Shes provided a section of 
her lease agreement which sets out what parts are common parts and what parts are 
demised.
Whilst I accept the internal parts of the windows are part of the demised premises, its clear 
the external parts of the building, including the external decorative finishes of the windows, 
are common parts. In any event, the remedial work is likely to affect the external walls 
surrounding the windows. 
So, overall, Im persuaded the claim affects the common parts and the relevant section 2 
and section 3 notification periods apply.
Are the notification periods for claims affecting the common parts, fair?
Miss G says the notification periods for claims affecting the common parts are unfair. I can 
understand her point of view, given the section 2 notification period for claims affecting the 
common parts, could have already started, or expired, before the homeowner buys their 
apartment. 
However, I find the notification periods to be set out clearly in the policy terms, and I see no 
reason for them not to apply here. Miss G didnt buy her policy in the conventional sense. It 
was purchased by the builder to pass to the eventual homeowner. If Miss G is unhappy 
about what the builder told her, in respect of the cover being provided, thats a matter 
between her and the builder.
During which notification period were the windows first reported?
Miss G completed on 22 May 2014. As noted above, on that date, the builder recorded her 
living room window and kitchen window were leaking.
Ive also seen Miss G completed a satisfaction survey for NHBC on 25 July 2014. She noted 
all the windows in her property were leaking, but the builder was trying to resolve the issue. 
In addition, Ive seen a letter from NHBC, from September 2014, which confirms Miss G 
emailed NHBC on 29 August 2014 about water ingress via the windows.
In NHBCs final response letter, in July 2021, it explained the section 2 notification period for 
claims affecting the common parts, expired before Miss G bought her apartment. However, 
Ive seen an email from NHBC, from September 2021, which explained, based on the data 
currently held, the notification period expired on 5 June 2014. NHBC explained not all the 
completion dates were up to date, so the notification period may have expired earlier.Clearly, the expiry date of the section 2 notification period if of importance to Miss Gs claim, 
in respect of section 2 or section 3 applying. I will set out the implications of different expiry 
dates under the next four sub-headings.
If section 2 expired between 22 May and 5 June 2014  lounge and kitchen window
If the relevant section 2 notification period expired between 22 May and 5 June 2014, then 
the living room window (which I understand is the curved lounge window) and the kitchen 
window fall under section 2. This is because, as per the demonstration report, those two 
windows were raised with the builder on 22 May 2014. 
NHBC declined to provide its resolution service for the kitchen window. As explained in my 
jurisdiction decision, thats not something I can consider.
But, if the relevant section 2 notification period expired between 22 May and 5 June 2014, 
then NHBCs reason for not offering its resolution service for the kitchen window appears 
flawed. Therefore, if the expiry date is confirmed as between those dates, then I invite 
NHBC to revisit its decision not to offer its resolution service for the kitchen window. If 
NHBC declines to do so, I have no power to comment further on the matter.
If section 2 expired before 22 May 2014  lounge and kitchen window
If the relevant section 2 notification period expired before 22 May 2014, then it follows that 
the lounge window and the kitchen window were raised during the section 3 notification 
period.  
In this scenario, NHBC should have considered the lounge window and the kitchen window 
under section 3. 
In respect of the lounge window, although it was considered under section 2 (rather than 
section 3), NHBC has become liable for putting right any defect and damage due to the 
breached resolution deadline. So, if the window has incorrectly been considered under 
section 2, its my understanding that no detriment has been caused.
Other windows
NHBC says the latest the relevant section 2 notification period expired was 5 June 2014. Ive 
not seen the other windows were raised by that date. Whilst Miss G recalls they were, Ive 
not seen anything that supports her recollection. The earliest document Ive seen that 
references the other windows is the satisfaction survey, which is dated 25 July 2014.
Therefore, unless NHBC can demonstrate the other windows were raised before the relevant 
section 2 notification period expired, I intend to decide they were raised during the relevant 
section 3 notification period. It would therefore follow that NHBC should have considered 
the other windows under section 3.
Section 3  next steps
When responding to my provisional decision, NHBC will need to evidence when the relevant 
section 2 notification period expired.
But based on the information provided so far, I consider it likely that some windows, if not all, 
fall under section 3. I havent seen NHBC has given section 3 any consideration. Therefore, 
I intend to decide NHBC needs to consider the other windows that fall under section 3. In my view, its enough that Miss G raised her leaking windows with NHBC. Its not for her to 
explicitly state which parts of the policy she wishes to claim under. NHBC are the experts 
here, so it should have guided her accordingly. 
So, if some windows fall under section 3, then the compensation award will reflect NHBCs 
failure to consider that cover.
The lounge window  delays
Its my understanding that, in 2020, NHBC was made aware of another dispute between the 
builder and Miss G in relation to further water ingress at her apartment. NHBC went on to 
issue a third resolution report, and it became responsible for putting right any defect and 
damage relating to the lounge window due to the breached resolution deadline.
NHBC required investigations around the window first, so it could determine if there was still 
a defect causing the water ingress.
Ive seen no reasonable explanation for the year long delay between the breached deadline 
in July 2020 and the final response letter in July 2021. Its also not clear why NHBC tried to 
revert to the builder for the investigations, given it had already failed to meet the resolution 
deadline. In my view, NHBC should have arranged the investigations itself or coordinated 
with the managing agent which is responsible for the building.
Compensation
NHBC has offered Miss G £600 compensation for the delay between the breached deadline 
in July 2020 and its final response in July 2021. However, I intend to increase this award to 
£1,200. 
A years delay is significant. Furthermore, I currently dont consider NHBC has treated 
Miss G fairly by not proactively considering section 3. I consider £1,200 to be a fairer 
reflection of the upset and inconvenience caused by those matters.
The lounge window  investigations
I understand NHBC carried out its investigations in November 2021. Miss G has told us the 
investigations found a condensation issue, rather than a defect causing water ingress. 
Miss G has also shared an email from a contractor that was involved in the investigations. 
The contractor says NHBC instructed those involved not to find a defect, only signs of 
historic water ingress.
Its not appropriate for me to consider those issues as part of this case. I understand NHBC 
is looking into the contractors accusations, and as explained at the start of my provisional 
findings, Im only considering events up to 19 July 2021. However, if Miss G is unhappy 
about events since that date, she can make a new complaint.
Settlement method
Miss G has raised concern NHBC is involving the managing agent, and that it intends to pay 
the settlement to the managing agent. The policyholder is Miss G, not the managing agent. However, neither Miss G nor NHBC can 
carry out work on the common parts of the building without the freeholders permission. The 
managing agent acts on the freeholders behalf, and it will need to be involved in the repair 
scheme. Where the building warranty provider isnt completing the common parts repairs 
itself, its not unusual for the cash settlement to be paid to the managing agent so it can 
organise the work.
Ultimately, if Miss G doesnt consider NHBC is treating her fairly when making the settlement 
for the lounge window, or the other windows, she can make a new complaint. Likewise, if 
NHBC determines no settlement is to be made following its investigation into the lounge 
window, or following its consideration of section 3, she can make new complaints about 
those matters.
In response to my provisional decision, NHBC wrote to Miss G (and provided me with a copy 
of its letter). The letter was dated 12 August 2022. To summarise, NHBC set out the 
following:
- NHBC clarified that the section 2 notification period for claims affecting the common 
parts expired on 8 May 2016. NHBC acknowledged it had previously given Miss G 
incorrect information about the expiry date, and that she had first raised the water 
ingress via her windows during the section 2 notification period.
- NHBC previously provided its resolution service for the curved lounge window. NHBC 
became responsible for the required actions after the builder failed to comply with the 
resolution report. Following an investigation, NHBC concluded the water ingress had 
been resolved by the builder, but there was a condensation issue. Because this was 
a new issue, section 3 applied. NHBC acknowledged it had incorrectly declined the 
section 3 claim on the basis that condensation is excluded under section 3. NHBC 
clarified that condensation is only excluded if not caused by a defect, and further 
investigations are needed to determine whether a section 3 claim would succeed.
- In respect of the curved lounge window investigation, NHBC has reviewed the file note 
covering the pre-investigation meeting. Whilst NHBC was specific in terms of what the 
contractors were instructed to do, theres no evidence this direction extended to the 
outcome of the investigation.
- To put matters right, NHBC will now further assess the condensation issue at the curved 
lounge window under section 3; provide its resolution service for the other windows; 
appoint a specialist claims consultant to manage the claim; and offer £3,000 
compensation on top of the £1,200 I intended to award (so, £4,200 in total).
Miss G provided her comments in response to my jurisdiction decision, provisional decision, 
and NHBCs letter. To summarise, Miss G set out the following:
- Miss G expressed her disappointment I couldnt consider certain matters relating to the 
resolution service.
- Miss G asked whether NHBC would still be liable for rectifying the damage if it paid the 
claim settlement to the managing agent, but the managing agent didnt fulfil its 
obligations.
- Miss G disagreed the notification periods were clear in the policy terms, given neither 
NHBC nor our service was able to work out what the specific dates were. - In reference to the policy sale, Miss G noted insurers are responsible for the conduct of 
their intermediaries. 
- If the claim had been correctly dealt with eight years ago, under section 3, NHBC would 
have been immediately liable for the repairs. 
- Miss G welcomes NHBCs offer of an additional compensation payment, but what she 
really wants is for her windows to be fixed. She said she had no choice but to accept 
NHBCs offer to use their resolution service in relation to the other windows.
In September 2022, in view of the responses to my first provisional decision, I set out my 
further provisional findings. In my second provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my first provisional decision, I explained I was only considering events up to 19 July 2021. 
However, given how matters have since moved on, and the offer being made by NHBC, it 
wouldnt be helpful to either party, or practical, to limit my findings to 19 July 2021. So, Ill 
now consider events up to the date of NHBCs recent letter, i.e. 12 August 2022.
Water ingress  applicable policy section
Whilst I accept the policy terms dont specify the dates for the notification periods, it remains 
my view that the notification periods are set out clearly, i.e. the terms confirm how the dates 
are to be calculated. 
It also remains my view that Miss G wasnt sold the policy. The policy was purchased by the 
builder, and it simply came with Miss Gs new home. Whilst I accept the builder likely used 
the policy to give potential buyers of the property confidence, NHBC isnt responsible for 
how the builder positioned the cover. The builder wasnt acting as NHBCs intermediary.
NHBC has now clarified that the section 2 notification period for claims affecting the common 
parts, expired on 8 May 2016. This means all the water ingress issues fall under section 2, 
given they were raised with NHBC before that date. 
I see no reason to doubt the 8 May 2016 date. Having reviewed the lease agreement, NHBC 
considers responsibility for the common parts of the apartment block to be shared amongst 
the properties within the block, whereas responsibility for the common parts of the site are 
shared amongst all the properties on the site. The common parts in question are windows, 
so its the dates of completion within Miss Gs block that are of relevance, as opposed to 
the other dates of completion across the site. I find NHBCs interpretation of the lease 
agreement to be reasonable.
NHBC has clarified that the first completion date within Miss Gs block was 9 May 2013, and 
the last was 4 March 2016. As per the policy terms, the section 2 notification period is either 
three years from the first date of completion for the homes sharing the common parts, or, if 
earlier, two years from the last date of completion for the homes sharing the common parts. 
The earlier date is three years from the first completion date, i.e. 8 May 2016.Lounge window  water ingress
NHBCs resolution service has already considered the curved lounge window. Because the 
builder failed to ensure NHBCs technical requirements had been met, NHBC became 
responsible for that required action under section 2. 
NHBC says its investigation found the water ingress issue at the lounge window had been 
resolved by the builders previous works, and the ongoing issue was being caused by 
condensation.
Ive reviewed the investigation report, which was completed by a third-party engineer. The 
engineer couldnt find any evidence of water penetrating from outside. Whilst the engineer 
couldnt identify the cause of the water droplets recorded by Miss G, he concluded they 
could be due to condensation. He recommended further investigations to confirm that 
condensation was the issue.
Miss G points towards an allegation made by a contractor involved in those investigations. 
The contractor says NHBC instructed those involved not to find a defect, only signs of 
historic water ingress. The contractor that made the allegation, wasnt the engineer 
responsible for the investigation  and nor were they employed by the same firm.
As per the contractors email in which the allegation was made, its evident theres been a 
relationship breakdown between that contractor and NHBC due to a dispute about unpaid 
invoices. Im mindful the contractor may have an ulterior motive for making the allegation. 
Im also mindful that five months passed between NHBCs alleged instruction and the 
allegation, so the contractors recollections may not be accurate. As such, Im not 
persuaded I can reasonably place much weight on the allegation. 
On the other hand, Ive reviewed the file note from the pre-investigation meeting, and the 
engineers report, and I havent seen anything that leads me to doubt the credibility of 
NHBCs instructions or the engineers report. 
Therefore, based on the information presented, Im persuaded NHBC has met its obligations 
under section 2, in relation to the water ingress issue at the lounge window that was first 
reported during the section 2 notification period. NHBC has commissioned an intrusive 
survey which found no evidence the external water penetration was still ongoing. 
However, should it later be found that water is still penetrating from outside, then it follows 
NHBC would need reconsider its liability under section 2.
Lounge window  condensation
NHBC has identified a potential condensation issue within the section 3 notification period. 
NHBC has accepted it unfairly declined the issue under section 3 and it has offered to 
investigate the matter further. It follows that I consider NHBCs proposal to be fair.
If Miss G is unhappy with NHBCs further claim decision under section 3, in respect of the 
condensation, shes free to make a further complaint.
Other windows  water ingress
NHBC has now offered to provide its resolution service for the remaining windows. As 
explained in my jurisdiction decision, I cant direct NHBC to offer its resolution service. 
Nonetheless, it follows that I consider NHBCs offer to be fair.If Miss G is unhappy with NHBCs outcome following the resolution service process, she can 
make a new complaint. However, as per my jurisdiction decision, this service would only be 
able to consider a complaint about a section 2 claim if certain criteria have been met. 
Settlement method
As explained in my first provisional decision, if NHBC goes on to offer a cash settlement for 
any of the repairs, but Miss G doesnt consider NHBC is treating her fairly by involving the 
managing agent, she can make a new complaint. I dont consider it appropriate for me to 
comment on scenarios that are yet to arise. Should a dispute later arise about a cash 
settlement, or about who is to be responsible for the works, we can consider those 
arguments, and whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, at that time.
Compensation
 
Its evident NHBC hasnt treated Miss G fairly, and shes suffered a fair amount of upset and 
inconvenience as a result.
As noted in my first provisional decision, in respect of the water ingress at the curved lounge 
window, there was a years delay between the builder breaching the resolution deadline in 
July 2020, and NHBC taking responsibility in July 2021.
In respect of the water ingress at the other windows, NHBC gave incorrect information about 
the section 2 notification dates. Having incorrectly concluded those water ingress issues had 
been raised after the section 2 notification period had expired, it failed to consider section 3 
(albeit, its now been established that section 3 doesnt apply to the water ingress claims). 
In February 2020, NHBC decided not to offer its resolution service for the other windows 
based on an incorrect conclusion about the section 2 notification dates. That matter is 
outside of my jurisdiction, so the impact on Miss G is not something I can award 
compensation for. But nevertheless, NHBCs error is apparent.
In respect of the potential condensation issue, NHBC incorrectly applied an exclusion to 
decline that section 3 claim.
NHBC has offered to increase the compensation to £4,200. Bearing in mind the matters that 
are within my jurisdiction, the delays since July 2020, and the impact on Miss G, overall, Im 
satisfied NHBCs offer is fair.
NHBC accepted my second provisional decision. Miss G reiterated her concerns about the 
potential claim settlement being paid to the managing agent. She asked for assurances 
about NHBCs responsibilities in the event it decided to rely on the managing agent to 
complete the remedial works.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only point that has been made in response to my second provisional decision, relates to 
the potential settlement method for the issues NHBC is now considering. However, I cant 
add anything further to what Ive already said in my two provisional decisions, under the 
heading settlement method.Having reconsidered all the information that has been presented, Ive reached the same 
outcome I reached in my second provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my two provisional decisions, I uphold this 
complaint. My final decision is National House-Building Council should:
- consider the condensation issue at the curved lounge window under section 3; and
- pay Miss G £4,200 compensation, in total (if £600 has already been paid, a further 
£3,600 would be due).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman