DRN-3850923
The complaint
 Mr A complains as trustee of a trust (T) that without the trustees permission, TSB Bank plc 
(TSB) changed the status of its account (the Account). Mr A also raised concerns about 
unpaid interest that was due on the Account between 2012 and 2013.  
What happened
The background to the complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 22 November 
2022, which forms part of this decision.
I provisionally concluded that we could consider all aspects of the complaint and furthermore 
that it should be upheld in part. 
In summary I said:
I am able to consider all aspects of this complaint including Mr As complaint 
regarding TSBs alleged failure to pay interest on the Account in 2012-2013. Thats 
because based on TSBs final response letters dated 28 January and 20 August 
2019 in which TSB gave their consent to us doing so, having regard to DISP 2.8.2 R 
(5), I did not think the bank could later withdraw that consent for certain aspects of 
the complaint as it had sought to do.
Regarding the opening of the Account it seemed likely on balance that, in 2012 the 
trustees intended to set up a trust account to receive Mr As settlement. And it wasnt 
unreasonable for them to believe that they had done so because the passbook that 
was issued at the time confirmed as much as did the passbook that was renewed by 
TSB in 2018. 
But a screen shot of the account opening details shows that on 5 September 2012 
when the Account was opened, it was in fact opened as an Easy Saver account 
rather than a trust account. So, contrary to what was confirmed in the passbook 
when it was issued in 2012, I was satisfied the Account was opened as an Easy 
Saver rather than a trust account. And so, when in 2013 it was transferred to TSB, it 
was as an Easy Saver account. Against that background, I was not persuaded that 
TSB changed the Account from a trust account to the Easy Saver which Mr A 
believed took place. 
Furthermore, Lloyds told us at the time the Account was opened they didnt offer a 
specific trust account although it was possible for the name on the account to be 
changed so that it could, for instance be called: Mrs X Trustee of Mr Y.
In light of Lloyds evidence that there was no specific trust account available within its 
suite of accounts in 2012, its difficult for me conclude they should have opened a 
trust account for the trustees at the time rather than an Easy Saver. 
But Lloyds acted wrongly when having opened the Easy Saver account they then 
issued a passbook accompanying it which described the Account as a trust account, 
when in fact it never was. By extension TSB were responsible for that error. And 
furthermore, rather than put things right, in 2018 TSB reinforced that earlier error 
when on renewal of the passbook they too maintained the Account was a trust 
account. 
These errors, first by Lloyds, then TSB amounted to poor service. And although TSB rightly 
pointed out that in January 2013 Mr A was sent a statement that indicated the Account was 
an Easy Saver, I didnt think that alone was sufficient for Mr A reasonably to conclude the 
trustees were not in possession of a trust account when the passbooks told them otherwise. 
These errors led to understandable confusion on Mr As part and meant he later had to make 
various attempts to get to the bottom of what had happened regarding the Account.
Interest on the Account between 2012-2013 
Mr As complaint in this regard appeared to be inconsistent. On the one hand it seemed he 
complained to TSB that the Account did not receive the promised 1.58% interest. But he 
seemed also to have complained that no interest was paid at all in the year 2012-2013. 
In their final response letter dated 28 January 2019 I noted TSB acknowledged Mr As 
concern regarding the 1.58% interest and asked for further details to enable them to look 
into it. But I couldnt see that Mr A provided the details the bank asked for but instead later 
claimed no interest was paid at all.
TSB said they have no access to the historic interest rates offered by Lloyds before the 
Account was transferred to them 2013 and therefore arent able to comment on what interest 
if any was received on the Account in the time it was with Lloyds.  
But Lloyds statement for the first four months the Account was in operation  that is 5 
September 2012 to 18 January 2013 shows the percentage Annual Equivalent rate (1.60%) 
as well as the percentage Gross and Net rates being paid. It seemed unlikely therefore that 
Lloyds wouldnt have paid any interest on the Account prior to it being transferred to TSB.   
TSB also said that according to their records they were paying 0.20% on the Easy Saver 
accounts when these accounts were transferred to them by Lloyds in 2013. 
TSB have also shared statements for the Account for the five years between 2016 and 2021. 
They show credit interest on a steadily decreasing balance on the Account brought about by 
a series of withdrawals, including as Mr A has told us a substantial amount to buy a house. 
I am satisfied that in the five years just referred to  and I have no reason to doubt the same 
for other years  that after assuming responsibility for the Account TSB paid interest on it 
annually. 
Impact of the banks error
Mr A said the trust has lost interest. But in light of what Ive said above, I was not persuaded 
that had been the case. 
That being said TSB acknowledged they gave poor service to Mr A. Especially in the 
particular respects they identified when they paid Mr A compensation of £450. 
However, it is my finding also that Lloyds and TSB did provide poor service to the trustees in 
other respects too. In particular, concerning issuing a passbook to the trustees that 
incorrectly confirmed they had a trust account when all along the account they in fact had 
was an Easy Saver.  So, Ive thought about whether TSB should compensate the trustees 
further for those aspects of poor service which they hadnt before. TSB have pointed out that Mr A was able to operate the Account on his own and therefore 
without the restrictions commonly associated with trust accounts  such as requiring two 
trustees to operate them. I agree. Set against that, however, Ive also borne in mind that the 
trustees were misled about the type of account they had and Mr A had to spend time 
communicating with the bank to get an explanation about the discrepancy. Based on that I 
considered an additional £150 compensation for the inconvenience of having to do so was 
reasonable. 
TSB accepted my provisional decision. But Mr A didnt. He said the £150 fails to properly 
account for the stressed this matter has caused him. He believes £1,500 would be a more 
appropriate compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr A has told me this matter was quite stressful for him and I do not doubt that.  Ive 
acknowledged there would have been understandable confusion on Mr As part and his 
attempts to get to the bottom of what happened regarding the Account caused 
inconvenience for which Im satisfied the trustees should be compensated by way £150. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr A believes a more appropriate award ought to be £1500, there is no 
new evidence or arguments for me to consider that might have led me to come to a different 
conclusion regarding the level of compensation I regard as appropriate. 
 
Putting things right
 So, I believe my provisional decision still stands. In other words, my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decision  
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require TSB Bank 
Plc to pay T £150 compensation  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman