DRN-2823432
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc did not help recover the money she paid to a 
scam investment company. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of events below.
 
Miss D came across EuropeFX in an article in the Financial Times online. She contacted 
them to discuss the possibility of investing. Miss D was allocated an account manager and 
following a series of promises from them, decided to invest with EuropeFX.
 
From June 2019 to January 2020  Miss D made payments totalling £192,133 to EuropeFX. 
She received credits totalling £66,975 from EuropeFX  which included a settlement offer 
following Miss Ds complaint to them.
 
Miss D approached Barclays to help recover her money. It attempted some chargeback 
claims but decided not to take things further as some of the claims were out of time and it 
received information from EuropeFX that Miss D signed a legally binding settlement 
agreement with them. Miss D referred her complaint to this service and said amongst other 
things, Barclays ought to have flagged the payments as suspicious. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Barclays had any chargeback 
rights and also didnt think the transactions were unusual given the normal way Miss D 
managed her account. Miss D disagreed, she felt based on her age and lack of financial 
experience, Barclays should have done more. She also explained the larger expenditure on 
her account was due to a recent house sale but prior to this she had modest earnings. 
Miss Ds complaint has been prioritised with our service given her personal circumstances, 
so its been passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice.  
 
So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular trader was a fraudster. 
 
were the disputed payments fraudulent? 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a high risk investment scam is in fact 
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Miss Ds case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent.   
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that EuropeFX had no adverse 
information reported about them at the time Miss D authorised her payments. What I have 
noted was that they were registered with the FCA at the time of Miss Ds payments. 
I have seen that the FCA cancelled EuropeFXs registration on 4 June 2020 and explained 
after this date, EuropeFX could no longer provide investment services to UK customers. But 
this information was not available at the time of Miss Ds disputed payments. 
I must therefore take into account that theres strong evidence here  particularly because 
there are no regulator warnings that were published at the material time that EuropeFX 
hadnt been identified as a fraudulent company when these payments were made.  
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, I have no credible evidence to persuade me with 
any degree of certainty that EuropeFX was operating a scam and the evidence I have seen 
suggests that EuropeFX were indeed regulated at the time it offered services to Miss D. 
So, taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that EuropeFX was in fact a 
fraudulent company.  
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Having considered Visas rules, the possible chargeback reason codes did cover binary-
options/investment trading at the time of Miss Ds payments. Visa expanded its rules to cover situations whereby binary options/investment traders prevented cardholders from 
withdrawing their available balances from 14 October 2017. 
However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required Barclays to present 
dated evidence that Miss D had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or 
confirmation from the merchant) and that she tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, 
her available balances on the same day. But its clear by the time she realised something 
was wrong, shed lost her money. 
I also have to agree with Barclays that Miss Ds settlement agreement with EuropeFX would 
have prevented it from successfully processing chargeback claims for her. Thats because, if 
the claims were defended (as they were here), the nature of her settlement agreement with 
EuropeFX prevented her from taking any further action against them. 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Barclays is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Miss D for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the 
time. This is because they were made by Miss D using the legitimate security credentials 
provided to her by Barclays. These must be regarded as authorised payments even 
though Miss D feels she was the victim of a scam. So, although she did not intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of 
her account, Miss D is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto 
counter various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing 
of  terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks and building societies are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I do appreciate that Miss D states the higher expenditure in the months leading up to her 
payments to EuropeFX were the result of a property sale but I agree with our investigators 
comments that the transactions to EuropeFX werent unusual in relation to the recent way 
she was managing her account. I dont think the payments to EuropeFX stood out as 
particularly unusual. 
But even if I did think the payments were unusual, as explained previously, the banks duty 
is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it is not to give investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains. Ultimately, Miss D paid a legitimate company. To that end, I 
cannot safely conclude that the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening to 
ask questions about the transactions before letting them all go. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and despite my natural sympathies for Miss Ds losses and 
her personal circumstances, I dont uphold her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman