DRN-4292179
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt send him a new debit card when his existing 
one expired. 
What happened
Mr M lives in a country outside of the UK. His debit card expired around October 2022 and, 
although he chased a replacement with the bank multiple times, hes still not received a new 
card. 
HSBC says it ordered replacement cards on two occasions, both of which were sent to 
Mr Ms international address as per the banks records. The bank concludes that the 
problem seems to be down to the courier service. 
After Mr M brought his complaint to this service, HSBC issued a further two replacement 
cards via courier. Its unclear whether the most recent card has arrived. Our investigator 
concluded that the bank had acted fairly and had fulfilled its duty to send a replacement card 
to Mr M. The investigator decided that HSBC wasnt liable for issues with the courier. 
The complaint remains unresolved, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the opinion that HSBC has acted fairly  Ill explain why.
HSBC has demonstrated that a new card was issued in September 2022, ahead of Mr Ms 
previous card expiring. Its unclear why this card didnt arrive. The bank concluded that it 
was lost in the post. When Mr M contacted HSBC in March 2023, I can see that HSBC 
issued a replacement card. Both cards seem to have been sent to the addresses HSBC held 
on its records (a correspondence address and a home address), one of which I can see 
matches the address we hold for Mr M. Again, its unclear why this second card didnt arrive 
either, but I can see that HSBC sent it, so I cant fairly say that it did something wrong.
The bank has since issued a two further replacement cards and provided this service with 
tracking details for reference. The first of these again failed to arrive at Mr Ms address. 
According to tracking information, the second replacement seems to have left the UK over a 
week ago. Mr M is yet to confirm whether this has been received. 
I cant say for certain why multiple cards failed to arrive at Mr Ms address. It seems likely 
that theres a problem with the courier or theres an issue with post being received at the 
relevant address. But I cant hold HSBC responsible for problems outside of its control. The 
bank appears to have done what it can to get a new card to Mr M, so Im satisfied it hasnt 
acted unfairly.
Unfortunately, managing a UK account whilst living in another country means typical banking 
activities could be more challenging for Mr M compared to when living in the UK. In this 
instance, the bank seems to have acted reasonably to help resolve this matter. So I dont 
see reason to uphold this complaint.
Should Mr M not receive the card thats currently in transit, he may contact HSBC for further 
support. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman