DRN-4024222
The complaint
Mr S complains about a quality of a car supplied to him by Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers) and hes unhappy with the information it 
reported about his conditional sale agreement to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr S acquired a car under a 42 month conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers in 
June 2020. The car cost around £8,000. Under the agreement, Mr S paid a deposit of 
£1,500 and was required to make 42 payments of £201.93. The car was supplied by a 
dealership Ill refer to as D. At the time of supply, the car was around eight years old and had 
covered around 69,000 miles. 
Around three weeks later, Mr S contacted Close Brothers and let it know he was having 
issues with the oil pump, oil sensor, pressure switch, the inside light, the USB slot and the 
navigation system. He said these issues were present with the car when he acquired it. He 
said D took the car back to repair some issues, but nothing changed. He said he needed the 
car and would get the issues repaired himself.
Close Brothers spoke to D who said they had replaced the oil pump sensor, the oil pressure 
switch sensor and reprogrammed the ECU. D said the issue continued and they believed 
this was a further electrical issue. D said they wanted to unwind the agreement and take the 
car back. Close Brothers attempted to contact Mr S, but were unable to reach him.
In August 2020, Mr S contacted Close Brothers and said there were ongoing problems with 
the engine oil pressure and the sat nav. Mr S said he had to replace two back tyres and he 
was told the front and back wheels were different sizes. Mr S said he had lost work of 
around £1,000 as a result of these issues and wanted a refund of the warranty cost of £300.
Close Brothers issued a response to Mr Ss complaint. It said D had replaced the oil pump 
sensor, the oil pressure switch sensor and reprogrammed the ECU. It said as the faults 
persisted, D had agreed to take the car back but Mr S wanted the car repaired instead. 
Close Brothers said it had attempted to contact Mr S to discuss the complaint but it hadnt 
been successful. It said whilst it didnt dispute the issues had occurred, it couldnt do 
anything further due to the lack of contact from Mr S. 
In September 2020, Close Brothers arranged for an independent inspection of the car to be 
carried out through a company Ill refer to as B. Mr S also confirmed no repairs had been 
carried out as he said D wouldnt speak to him. D said Mr S hadnt been compliant in having 
the repairs carried out and so whilst it had previously said it carried out repairs, it didnt do 
this as it didnt have an opportunity to make any repairs.
In October 2020, Mr S contacted Close Brothers and explained he was suffering from 
financial difficulties due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was agreed that he could 
have 30 days breathing space which was subsequently extended by a further 60 days.
B let Close Brothers know that Mr S said he was unavailable until late November 2020 to 
have an independent inspection carried out. Subsequently, B let Close Brothers know it 
couldnt contact Mr S to arrange an inspection.
In December 2020, Close Brothers issued a further response to Mr Ss complaint about the 
car supplied to him. It said B contacted Mr S to inspect the car but, Mr S cancelled this 
inspection and both B and Close Brothers had been unable to reach Mr S. And so, it didnt 
uphold the complaint.
In March 2021, B carried out an independent inspection of the car. It confirmed there were 
issues with the car and these issues were present at the point the car was supplied to Mr S. 
B also identified an issue with the engine misfiring.
Close Brothers issued a response to Mr Ss complaint in May 2021. It said Bs inspection 
had confirmed the faults with the car Mr S had complained about were present since the car 
was supplied to him. B also said the car misfired but that this was caused as a result of Mr S 
continuing to drive the car whilst the oil pump was faulty. Close Brothers said the misfire 
would need to be corrected before it could assist with the other faults. It said Mr S had 
provided no counter evidence and so it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with this and he said he had obtained a second opinion about the 
suspected misfire from a third party. Close Brothers said it would consider this information if 
Mr S provided it with a statement from a VAT registered garage and from a qualified 
mechanic. He was also unhappy a debt collector visited his house to collect payments owed 
under the agreement.
In August 2021, Close Brothers issued a response to Mr Ss complaint. It said fees were 
correctly applied to Mr Ss agreement as a result of the house visit that was carried out. It 
said it hadnt made an error and so it wouldnt waive the fees. It also said it had attempted to 
contact Mr S in relation to his complaint about the car it had supplied to him, but hadnt been 
able to speak to Mr S.
Mr S also referred his complaint to this service. He said Close Brothers needed to remove 
the information from his credit file. He said a debt collector had visited him to wrongly collect 
payments, which Close Brothers had agreed they would allow him breathing space to pay. 
He said Close Brothers sent his information to an email address which wasnt owned by him.
In September 2021, Mr S complained to Close Brothers and said his credit file was showing 
adverse information reported by Close Brothers. He also said Close Brothers provided him 
incorrect information about potential credit file impact if he was struggling to make a 
payment.
Close Brothers issued its response to Mr Ss complaint in September 2021. It said it had 
incorrectly reported adverse information to Mr Ss credit file between October and  
December 2020. It said it would contact the credit reference agencies to have this 
information amended. It also said given it had made an incorrect note on its system to say it 
had increased the breathing space by an additional 90 days, it would also remove any 
adverse information applied to Mr Ss credit file between January and March 2021. Finally it 
said it provided Mr S with correct information about any potential credit file impact.
In January 2022, Close Brothers issued a further response to Mr Ss complaint about his 
credit file. It said it had instructed that Mr Ss credit file be amended urgently. And it said it 
removed the £75 fee for the house call from Mr Ss account. Mr S complained and said the 
information hadnt been amended from his credit file.
In March 2022, Close Brothers reviewed Mr Ss concerns and provided a further response. It 
accepted it had caused a delay with removing adverse information from Mr Ss credit file and 
offered Mr S a £150 payment in recognition of this.
Our investigator looked into the complaint Mr S referred about his credit file. He said Close 
Brothers accepted it had incorrectly reported adverse information to credit reference 
agencies about Mr Ss account and that there was a delay in removing this. He said he 
thought the £150 Close Brothers had offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
He said Mr S had provided no supporting information to suggest the adverse information 
was still being reported, and neither had Mr S demonstrated the impact of the adverse 
information being reported to his credit file.Mr S disagreed. He said Close Brothers had again reported adverse information to his credit 
file in November 2022. He also said the car that was supplied to him was faulty and B didnt 
properly diagnose the car. He said he requested that another engineer attend his property 
which didnt show a mis-fire and instead it showed an issue with the engine oil pressure and 
headlight bulb.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought the car that was supplied to Mr S was 
not of satisfactory quality. He said B had confirmed the issues with the car were present at 
the point the car was supplied to Mr S and that previous repairs had been unsuccessful. Our 
investigator recommended that Close Brothers allow Mr S to reject the car, refund him the 
deposit paid, refund 5% of all monthly rentals paid by Mr S since June 2020 for any impaired 
usage of the car, refund any applicable interest, pay Mr S £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and amend any adverse information reported to credit reference 
agencies.
Close Brothers didnt respond. And so, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Mr S hadnt referred a complaint about a debt collector visiting his property. So I didnt 
consider this complaint point as part of the decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 February 2023, in which I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr S has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr S was of satisfactory 
quality. If I dont think it was, Ill need to think whats fair, if anything, to put things right. I also 
need to decide whether Close Brothers has done enough to put things right after it agreed it 
incorrectly reported adverse information to Mr Ss credit file. For clarity, Ill comment on both 
these complaint points separately.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers is the supplier of the car under 
this type of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers conditional sale agreements. Under a 
conditional sale agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality.
Mr S acquired a car that was used  so there would be different expectations compared to a 
new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the point of supply, should have met the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account its age, 
mileage and price. The CRA says the aspects of the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition alongside other things such as their fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In this case, Mr S reported issues with the oil pump, oil sensor, oil pressure switch, the 
inside mirror light, the USB slot and the navigation system within a couple of weeks of 
having the car. D confirmed these faults and said it had attempted repairs but Mr S collected 
the car before it could carry out repairs.Both parties appeared to accept there was an issue with the car within a short period of it 
being supplied to Mr S. Having thought about the faults that occurred, I wouldnt reasonably 
expect all these issues to occur so soon after Mr S was supplied the car, given the age, price 
and mileage of the car. So I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied to Mr S. It seems D accepted this as it agreed to carry out repairs and also agreed 
to unwind the agreement and take back the car.
However, Mr S said he wanted the car repaired by his own specialist. I can see that Close 
Brothers instructed B to obtain an independent report, which B attempted to arrange with   
Mr S from September 2020.
In March 2021, B were able to inspect the car. At the time of the inspection, the mileage was 
around 71,000. So Mr S had been able to travel around 2,000 miles in the car since he 
acquired it. B confirmed the engine displayed heavy misfire and excessive mechanical noise. 
They also said the dashboard displayed a fault saying, oil pressure fault and they said their 
diagnostic equipment identified two fault codes  engine oil pressure and combustion 2 
misfire. B also said they checked the USB socket and it wouldnt allow them to charge a 
phone and they identified that the sat nav wouldnt work either. B said these issues would 
have been present or developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr S, given the low 
mileage the car had travelled since Mr S acquired it.
Given that B concluded that the faults Mr S had mentioned were present with the car and 
these faults were present or developing at the point of the car being supplied to Mr S, Im 
satisfied that the car had faults and that these faults made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
In addition, Bs opinion supports the faults identified by Mr S around the time he was 
supplied the car and so, Im satisfied these faults were present at the time Mr S acquired the 
car.
Ive noted that Close Brothers obtained further information from B to confirm whether the 
fault identified with the engine misfire would have likely taken place as a result of the oil 
pump not being repaired sooner. B said, a misfire would not be helped with an oil pressure 
issue, as oil will not be circulating the engine as it should which would cause further internal 
issues.
I appreciate Close Brothers further information from B about the engine misfire. However, 
Bs further comments about the misfire didnt confirm that the non-replacement of the oil 
pump was the reason that the engine was misfiring. Instead it said a misfire would not be 
helped.
Also, whilst B had identified two new issues  the engine misfire and excessive noise  
these appear to be a continuation of the underlying faults with the car. Had the car been of 
satisfactory quality when the car was supplied to Mr S, then its unlikely that the engine 
misfire would have taken place, if we are to accept that the engine misfire only occurred as a 
result of the car being driven whilst it had oil pump issues. And so, whilst I think to some 
extent that Mr S has likely contributed to the current engine misfire fault, this has only 
happened as a result of Close Brothers supplying Mr S with a car which was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Ive gone on to consider what Close Brothers needs to do to put things right.
D agreed to take back the car from Mr S in June 2020 after he made it aware of the issues. 
So D were allowing Mr S his right to reject the car. However, Mr S said he wanted to get the 
car repaired and said he would get the car repaired by his own mechanic. Its unclear 
whether this happened, however on balance, I dont think he did get it repaired in June 2020 
as the faults were still present with the car at the time B carried out its report.
Following Bs report in March 2021, Mr S said he would obtain further information from his 
own mechanic to show there was no engine misfire. However, this hasnt been supplied to 
Close Brothers or this service since March 2021.Having thought about whats happened carefully, I think Mr S should have been entitled to 
reject the car in March 2021 after Bs report was carried out. I dont think Mr S should have 
been required to provide further information, given Bs comments about all the other faults 
with the car being present or developing at the time the car was supplied to Mr S.
And so, I think Close Brothers should end the conditional sale agreement and collect the car 
from Mr S at no further cost to him. It should also refund the deposit of £1,500 Mr S paid and 
pay any applicable interest.
Mr S has had access to the car and so, he should pay for this use. Ive considered whether 
Mr Ss use of the car has been impaired. Our investigator recommended that Close Brothers 
refund Mr S 5% of each monthly payment since June 2020 to reflect the issues Mr S has 
had with the car. However, Im not intending to make any award for impaired usage. This is 
because D agreed to carry out repairs and take back the car in June 2020. However, Mr S 
didnt allow it to carry out repairs and reported D to the Police to say it had his car. D 
released the car back to Mr S without carrying out repairs, as the Police instructed it to. Mr S 
said he would get repairs carried out instead from his own mechanic, but this doesnt appear 
to have taken place.
Following this, there was a significant delay until March 2021, due to Mr S rescheduling Bs 
independent inspection a number of times. This was through no fault of Close Brothers. And 
following this, in May 2021, after Close Brothers had considered Bs report, Mr S said he 
was obtaining further information from his own mechanic. Close Brothers said it would be 
happy to consider this report, but Mr S didnt provide it. And so, whilst I agree Close Brothers 
should have allowed rejection of the car in March 2021, Mr S hasnt provided any further 
information to Close Brothers or this service about the engine misfire since May 2021, and 
so I dont think hes taken steps to mitigate his loss.
So having thought about this, Im not intending to make any award for the impaired use as I 
think the fact that the car still remains unrepaired or still with Mr S, is as a result of him not 
allowing D to repair the car or take it back in June 2020, the significant delays caused by   
Mr S since then and him not providing any further information since May 2021, despite 
communicating to Close Brothers that he would.
Ive also thought about any distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. Having done so, I 
agree with the award recommended by our investigator. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr S has had a number of personal issues take place whilst having the car. He 
has detailed these to this service and Im sorry to hear about them. Having carefully 
considered whats happened, Im satisfied that Close Brothers caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr S when it indicated he would need to resolve the issue with the engine 
misfire. Im satisfied Mr S wasnt required to do this. And had it agreed a repair or rejection at 
that point, the car would likely have been repaired sometime in 2021, if Mr S was agreeable 
to this. And so, I think Close Brothers should pay Mr S £300 compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Information reported to Mr Ss credit file
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance on 24 April 2020, that 
came into effect on 27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties 
as a result of Covid-19. This allowed financial businesses such as Close Brothers to grant a 
three-month payment deferral to people like Mr S. The guidance said that firms should not 
report a worsening arrears status on the customers credit file during the payment deferral 
period. The FCA issued further updated guidance on 15 July 2020 to allow firms to grant a 
further three month payment deferral to customers with ongoing payment difficulties as a 
result of Covid-19.
Close Brothers agreed that Mr S could have a payment deferral after he contacted it in 
October 2020. The payment deferral was granted as a result of Mr S being impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Given the guidance issued by the FCA about payment deferrals granted 
as a result of Covid-19, Close Brothers shouldnt have reported any adverse information to 
Mr Ss credit file during the payment deferral. When Close Brothers carried out its review of 
Mr Ss complaint in September 2021, it accepted it had incorrectly reported information to  
Mr Ss credit file between October 2020 and March 2021. So Close Brothers accepts it 
reported incorrect information to Mr Ss credit file during this period of time.
Mr S contacted Close Brothers in September 2021 and provided evidence to show his credit 
file was reporting adverse information. Close Brothers apologised and agreed to remove the 
adverse information. However, this wasnt removed and this led to Mr S making two further 
complaints to Close Brothers in January and February 2022. Close Brothers accepted it had 
caused delays in removing the adverse information and offered Mr S £150 in recognition of 
the delays and the incorrect reporting. Ive considered whether I think this amount is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, I think it is, Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Close Brothers shouldnt have reported the adverse information to 
Mr Ss credit file. And so, I think Close Brothers should compensate Mr S for the 
inconvenience of having this rectified and the delays in removing the adverse information.
But, having considered what Mr S has said about the impact of the adverse information 
being reported to his credit file, he hasnt provided any supporting information to 
demonstrate the impact to him. This service has asked Mr S to provide supporting 
information to show he has been declined credit with other lenders as a result of the adverse 
information being reported by Close Brothers. However, Mr S hasnt provided this and so I 
think Close Brothers offer to pay Mr S £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And 
so, I dont intend to instruct Close Brothers to pay any further compensation for the adverse 
information it reported.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Im minded to instruct 
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance to put things right by doing 
the following:
End the conditional sale agreement with no further payment due from Mr S;
Arrange collection of the car at no further cost to Mr S;
Refund Mr Ss deposit payment of £1,500;
Pay Mr S 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of each payment until the 
date of settlement*; 
Pay Mr S £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused; and
Pay Mr S £150 it previously offered for incorrectly reporting adverse information to  
Mr Ss credit file, if it hasnt done so already.
* If Close Brothers considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S didnt respond to my provisional decision. And Close Brothers didnt respond to my 
provisional decision.As no new evidence has been provided for me to consider following my provisional decision, 
it follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusion than set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision which I have outlined above, Close 
Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance should:
End the conditional sale agreement with no further payment due from Mr S;
Arrange collection of the car at no further cost to Mr S;
Refund Mr Ss deposit payment of £1,500;
Pay Mr S 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of each payment until the 
date of settlement*; 
Pay Mr S £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused**; and
Pay Mr S £150 it previously offered for incorrectly reporting adverse information to Mr 
Ss credit file, if it hasnt done so already**.
* If Close Brothers considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
** If Close Brothers does not pay this compensation for distress and inconvenience within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision, then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman