DRN-2553662
The complaint
Miss S complains about harassment from Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd (Lantern) in 
relation to a number of debts it is seeking repayment of in her name. 
What happened
Miss S has three accounts with Lantern all of which it purchased in 2019. 
In June 2020, Miss S complained to Lantern that they had been harassing her and that she 
wasnt in a position to repay the debt. She wanted Lantern to close her account and not 
contact her anymore. 
Lantern responded to Miss S complaint. They said theyd reviewed their contact with Miss S 
and didnt think it was excessive or harassment. They explained theyd asked her to provide 
information about her financial circumstances which she hadnt provided. Lantern apologised 
that one of their agents Miss S had spoken to on the phone said they had no record of her 
previously telling them she suffered from depression, when they did have a record of it. 
Miss S wasnt happy with Lanterns response  so she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of investigators considered her complaint. He said, in summary, he didnt think Lantern 
had treated Miss S unfairly and their contact with her had not amounted to harassment. 
Miss S responded to say she didnt agree as she still felt Lantern hadnt taken her 
circumstances into account. 
As Miss S didnt agree, her complaints been passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time this case was referred to me for a decision, Miss S hadnt provided Lantern with 
full details of her financial circumstances. Im aware that she has now done so and is 
unhappy with Lanterns response to this information. If thats the case, she might be able to 
refer those concerns here separately. But this decision covers only the concerns she 
referred to us in June 2020.
Lantern has provided copies of the Notice of Assignment for all three debts that they now 
own. Theres no dispute that Miss S owes the debt Lantern owns. So Im satisfied that 
Lantern has a legitimate reason to be in contact with Miss S about it. 
Miss S says she cant work because she suffers from anxiety and depression following the 
death of her son. And because of this, Miss S thinks Lantern should agree to not ask her to 
repay the debt. 
Im sorry for Miss S loss and I understand she finds the contact from Lantern upsetting. She 
says Lantern have been harassing her in an aggressive and demeaning manner. However, I 
havent found the contact shes received has been excessive or harassing. And I dont think 
Lantern have acted unreasonably by asking Miss S to provide information about her income 
and expenditure. Ill explain why. 
Lantern bought the debts in 2019. Their call records show they tried to contact Miss S nine 
times on the phone number they hold for her but only one of those calls was answered. This 
works out to be, on average, less than one call per month since they bought the first of 
Miss S debts in May 2019. And they removed her phone number from their systems when 
she asked them to in April 2020. Since then, no further calls have taken place. So I dont find 
the number of phone calls made by Lantern to be excessive or harassing. 
Lantern have also contacted Miss S in writing a number of times. It looks like Miss S has 
received an email about once a month from Lantern. I dont think theres anything harassing 
in their content or that theyve been excessive in amount. On occasions where Miss S has 
told Lantern shes been unwell or struggling, theyve placed the account on hold to give her 
breathing space. Which is what Id expect. And Lantern apologised for saying they had no 
record of Miss S suffering from depression, when they did  which was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Miss S felt Lantern hadnt taken her circumstances into account. But, at the time of her initial 
complaint, she still hadnt completed an income and expenditure form as shed been asked 
to a number of times. So Lantern didnt have a full and complete picture of her 
circumstances to take into account. But for the reasons Ive explained above, Ive found that 
they did treat Miss S appropriately based on what they did know about her circumstances.  
Miss S was also unhappy about the information Lantern were asking her to provide. She 
said they asked her about people in her household. Ive seen a copy of the income and 
expenditure form Lantern use. It asks about how many people there are in the household. 
And I can see from a call note that Miss S has spoken to Lantern about her household 
income. 
Its not unusual for financial businesses like Lantern to ask about household income and 
expenses and other people in the household. This is so that they can understand what 
Miss S income and expenses are, including any financial obligations she might share with 
other members of her household. So I dont think Lantern did anything wrong by asking 
about this. 
I know Miss S will be disappointed by my decision. But having considered the contact shes 
had with Lantern, Im satisfied theyve treated her fairly.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Miss S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman