DRN-1802413
The complaint
Miss P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC gave her incorrect information when applying for 
her shared ownership mortgage which has caused her to lose out financially.
What happened
Miss P says she was told by Barclays adviser the deposit needed for her shared ownership 
mortgage was 10%, but actually it was 15%. She says this meant she had to transfer funds 
from abroad earlier than necessary, incurring fees, a loss of interest and additional charges. 
And she says she was told she needed to get a solicitor urgently  and because of this she 
couldnt shop around to find a reasonably priced solicitor. Due to these issues Miss P 
complained to Barclays asking for her costs to be covered.
Barclays replied to the complaint. They said theyd discussed Miss Ps concerns with the 
mortgage adviser who spoke to her in June 2019. This adviser said shed told Miss P the 
correct information about deposits and didnt tell her to get a solicitor without going through a 
mortgage application, so didnt say to get a solicitor urgently.
Unhappy with this Miss P asked us to look into things. And she told one of our investigators 
shed now bought the property and went with Barclays for the lending as other lenders were 
strict about her income.  Our investigator considered Miss Ps complaint but felt there wasnt 
enough information to say Barclays had acted incorrectly, so didnt uphold Miss Ps 
complaint.
Miss P didnt agree with this outcome and asked why Barclays cant be punished for telling 
her the wrong information. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain where I dont have all the information needed to fully know what 
happened, I need to make a decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened  taking into account any information I do have.
Weve asked Barclays for their branch notes, and any other records they have of the 
conversations Miss P has said she had. Barclays have told us they dont have any records of 
conversations that took place in the branch unfortunately. I dont find this particularly 
unusual, as often notes about conversations in the branch arent recorded in the same way 
as contact through the phone for example.
The issue thats arisen here stems from the amount of the deposit that was being asked for. 
Miss P has said she understood it was supposed to be 10%, but later on found out it was 
15%. We asked for Barclays procedures on this to show what the deposit amount actually 
was.
This information shows for Miss Ps shared ownership purchase the deposit was 15%. I want 
to make it clear I dont disbelieve Miss P when she says she was told and understood the 
figure to be 10%. But as I dont have enough information to prove what shes said, I need to 
think about whats more likely than not to have happened. In Miss Ps case, Barclays 
procedure which says the amount of deposit for Miss Ps shared ownership would be a 15% 
deposit. And the testimony from the adviser also says lots of new builds are being built in 
that area  so she gets a lot of enquiries on this. This means Ive got Miss P telling me she 
was told verbally the deposit would be 10%, but Barclays procedure, and the testimony from 
the adviser saying they deal with lots of these enquiries, says its 15%. So, I think its more 
likely than not Barclays told Miss P the deposit was 15% of the overall purchase price, and 
because of that I wont be telling them to pay the costs shes claimed for this.
Ive also noted Miss Ps concerns that she was told to go to a solicitor urgently. Again, I dont 
have any records to demonstrate for certain what was said. But, even if Miss P was told to 
get a solicitor urgently, I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays stopped her from 
looking around to get a good deal. So, I dont think itd be fair to ask Barclays to pay for any 
additional costs Miss P has claimed for here.
Miss P has also claimed a number of other costs resulting from transfers, loss of interest, 
and phone calls related to the application. But shes also let us know she decided to go 
through with the application with Barclays, because other lenders were strict about her 
outcome. So, I think the additional costs Miss P has claimed for would have always been 
incurred as she went through with the application in the end.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not Barclays told Miss P the 
deposit amount was 15%, I dont think they stopped her from getting a good deal on her 
solicitors, and she would have incurred the other costs anyway.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman