DRN-2944918
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC restricted access and closed his account 
without notice. Hes also unhappy they loaded negative fraud markers against him. And hed 
like compensation for the impact this caused him. 
What happened
On the 26 February 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr O informing him that his current and savings 
accounts would be closing on the 27 April 2020. However, on the 13 March 2020 Mr O was 
no longer able to access his accounts. And on the 7 April 2020 a letter was sent to Mr O 
notifying him his accounts would be closed with immediate effect. 
Mr O is also the director of a limited company, Ill call O, whos accounts were also closed by 
Barclays on the 7 April 2020. Ive considered this complaint in a separate decision. 
The bank explained they received a report of a fraudulent transaction in March 2020 which 
credited Os account. And they subsequently restricted Mr Os access to all of his accounts. 
Mr O submitted evidence to show entitlement to the funds   and his money was available 
on the 23 July 2020. However Barclays didnt notify Mr O until the 21 August 2020, and he 
collected his funds on the 3 September 2020.
Mr O wasnt happy that Barclays prevented him using his account, he explained that he 
incurred medical expenses due to stress, had unpaid direct debits and had to pay for 
additional expenses for accommodation and food because at the time he was unable to 
return to the UK. 
Barclays initially loaded negative fraud markers against Mr O. However, following evidence 
Mr O provided in August 2020 they were satisfied that Mr O wasnt complicit in any fraud that 
may have taken place. And removed the markers.
Mr O complained to Barclays. The bank explained theyd acted fairly in restricting access to
his account and closing it with immediate effect on the 7 April 2020. However, the bank
accepted they didnt complete their review within the expected timescales and shouldnt
have loaded fraud markers against Mr O. In total they offered £450 compensation in
recognition of the impact caused to both Mr O, regarding his personal accounts, and Os 
business accounts.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint  but didnt uphold it. In summary they
thought Barclays had acted fairly in restricting Mr Os access to his accounts and later 
closing them. And overall they thought the £450 offered by Barclays was fair compensation 
for failing to return his funds as quickly as possible and the impact of the fraud markers.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators conclusions. In response he said:
The proper procedure wasnt followed when his account was closed.
Barclays closed his account 6 weeks earlier than they said and denied him time to 
find alternative banking arrangements.
The bank held on to his funds for 6 months.
They made an error in loading the fraud markers on his record.
Hed like to be compensated for the impact of Barclays actions and the stress an 
anxiety caused to him.  
As Mr O didnt accept our investigators conclusion, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction
Mr Os access to his account was limited on the 13 March and then closed on the 
7 April 2020.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly here  and I realise Mr O will be disappointed 
with my conclusions.  Although I appreciate that Mr O is unhappy that restrictions were 
placed on his account businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their 
accounts and to comply with various laws and regulations. Mr O agreed to this term as a 
customer and its a reasonable term. Im satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account when it reviewed Mr Os account. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when 
it initially blocked Mr Os account and didnt allow him access to his funds.
Account closure
Mr Os accounts were closed with immediate notice on the 7 April 2020, however Mr O was
initially informed that his accounts were going to be closed with 2 months notice on the
26 February 2020.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly when closing Mr Os account. When choosing 
to end a contract, in this case a bank account, Barclays must act within the terms and 
conditions of the account. The terms state that Barclays are entitled to end any agreement 
with a customer by giving 60 days notice and there are specific circumstances when they 
can immediately close a customers account. Barclays dont have to disclose which condition 
they are applying when choosing to do this. 
Ive reviewed these terms and from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Barclays acted
within the terms and conditions when they closed Mr Os account. I appreciate that Barclays
initially advised Mr O that hed have until the 27 April 2020 before his account
was closed  and later closed the account early on the 7 April 2020. And this was likely both 
confusing and frustrating to Mr O. However, as I think Barclays fairly applied their terms 
allowing immediate closure I cant say they werent entitled to do this.
Release of funds and Fraud markers
Mr Os funds, of just over £1,000, were released to him on the 3 September 2020. Mr Os
unhappy about the length of time his funds were withheld  and I can understand his
position. However, Barclays have a responsibility to follow the relevant laws and industry
regulations and to be satisfied a customer is entitled to them before theyre released, as in
Mr Os case. I can see that Mr O provided additional evidence, demonstrating his proof of
entitlement to the funds, on the 22 July 2021.Theres an unexplained delay at this point, with Barclays not notifying Mr O that his funds
were available to collect until the 21 August 2020. However, considering Mr O didnt collect 
the funds until the 3 September 2020 I dont think that the delay in notifying Mr O caused him
significant inconvenience. But, Ive taken into account the delay in returning Mr Os funds in 
deciding what I think is appropriate compensation for Barclays actions. 
Following the evidence Mr O provided the bank also concluded theyd made an error in 
loading the fraud markers and removed them. Im satisfied its likely that the loading of the 
fraud markers had an impact on Mr Os ability to open a new bank account, and obtain 
further credit. However, Mr Os not provided any additional evidence of this  and Im aware 
that hes since managed to obtain a new personal bank account.  
Barclays have offered a total of £450 in compensation to both O and Mr O. In this decision
Im dealing with the impact caused to Mr O by Barclays actions. And in doing so Ill
only be considering the distress or inconvenience caused to Mr O by the banks actions  
and not the impact on his business O.
In my consideration of the impact of Barclays actions I also need to take into account that 
Im satisfied the bank acted fairly in initially restricting Mr Os access, along with closing his 
accounts, and delaying the release of funds until proof of entitlement had been provided. 
Im satisfied that Mr O was caused inconvenience by Barclays failure to notify him his funds 
were available sooner, and the incorrect loading of the fraud markers. Mr Os advised he had 
increased stress due to his inability to return to the UK, had direct debits returned and 
incurred additional costs due to hotel stays. 
Mr Os explained that he had unpaid direct debits as a result of the block  and this has 
negatively impacted his credit rating. Looking at the evidence Im afraid I cant agree here  
the documents Mr Os provided our service are for three payments after the block was lifted 
and his account was closed. And theres a fourth payment reminder, again after Mr Os 
account was closed. Ive also seen evidence from Barclays that no direct debits were due or 
attempted during the account restriction. 
I appreciate that its highly likely Mr O suffered stress as a result of the closure of his bank 
account, however for the reasons Ive explained above I think the majority of this stress was 
the result of actions which Barclays took fairly. And for the reasons Ive outlined above Im 
satisfied that the offer Barclays made for £450 is in line with our approach. 
As Ive previously explained the offer of £450 was made for the impact caused to both O and 
Mr O. When considering Os complaint against Barclays I reached the conclusion that the 
£450 offered was fair and reasonable, and I directed the bank  if Mr O accepted  to pay O 
the full compensation amount. As Ive previously directed the bank to do this, I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman