DRN-3210728
The complaint
Mr V complains that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) applied exclusions to his 
private medical insurance cover.
What happened
In 2015, Mr V joined his employers group private medical insurance scheme. His application 
was fully underwritten, and he disclosed his previous medical conditions. WPA accepted 
Mr Vs application, and didnt apply any exclusions. 
In 2016, Mr V made a claim relating to neck pain. WPA realised at this point that it ought to 
have applied personal exclusions to the policy after it had received Mr Vs application. It said 
it would honour any claims made by Mr V up to the date of renewal, however from 1 April 
2017, it would add three personal exclusions to Mr Vs cover. 
In 2017, Mr V made another claim relating to neck pain. Although WPA thought the claim fell 
under one of the exclusions, it paid this on a goodwill basis. Then in 2020, Mr V made a 
claim for treatment relating to his back. WPA turned down the claim, as it found that it fell 
under one of the exclusions. 
Mr V brought a complaint to this service. He didnt think WPA had been entitled to apply the 
personal exclusions to his cover (and therefore turn down his recent claim), when hed 
disclosed the relevant information in his application. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for WPA to apply the exclusions from the 2017 renewal, because the policy was 
an annual one.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted that Mr V told WPA all the information it wanted to know about his medical 
history when taking out the policy. 
WPA says that it made an error after it received Mr Vs application, and his application 
wasnt reviewed by its underwriters as it ought to have been. That meant that when Mr Vs 
application was accepted, his past medical history hadnt been taken into account and so no 
exclusions were added. 
WPA says that if it had reviewed Mr Vs application as it should have done, it wouldve 
applied three personal exclusions. 
Given that WPA made the error, I think it was appropriate for it to deal with Mr Vs claims up 
to the following renewal. However, I agree with our investigator that as the policy was 
annually renewable, WPA was entitled to then apply the exclusions from the renewal date. 
I dont think Mr V has been disadvantaged by WPAs error. If hed known that WPA intended 
to add the exclusions to his cover from the outset, then he couldve applied for individual 
cover elsewhere. Though if Mr V had applied for another policy on an individual basis, its 
likely he would have paid more for this. 
Also, if Mr V had applied for another policy on a fully underwritten basis, then its most likely 
that similar exclusions wouldve been applied by another insurer. Alternatively, he couldve 
taken out cover on a moratorium basis. If hed done that, then his pre-existing conditions 
wouldnt have been covered (unless hed been trouble-free from his conditions for two years 
after the policy started). Mr V didnt have a two-year trouble-free period relating to his neck 
pain. He could potentially have had this for his other conditions - though its also the case 
that he couldve taken out cover elsewhere on a moratorium basis when he found out about 
WPAs error, but chose not to do so. 
Finally, Mr V has had the advantage of WPA paying for his treatment in 2016 and 2017 
because of its error, which likely wouldnt have happened if hed taken out cover elsewhere.
Consequently, whilst WPA was at fault for the error, I think its acted reasonably by applying 
the exclusions from the later renewal. Mr Vs claim in 2020 fell under one of the exclusions, 
and so I think it was reasonable for WPA to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman