DRN-3142441
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to carry out sufficient due 
diligence activities when he asked to transfer some pension savings to an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) in early 2013.
What happened
Mr L has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But for ease, in this decision, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr L himself.
Mr L held pension savings with Aviva. He says that he was cold called by a firm offering him 
a free review of his pension arrangements. Following that review he was told that if he were 
to transfer his pension savings to the Capita Oak Pension Scheme he would receive an 
immediate tax-free sum of £1,500, and likely investment returns between 2% and 5% higher 
than he was currently receiving. Mr L was attracted by that advice and agreed to the transfer 
being started.
On 21 January 2013 Mr L informed Aviva that he wished to transfer his pension savings. 
Aviva sent Mr L the relevant paperwork later that day. The new scheme made a transfer 
request to Aviva on 12 February. And Aviva received a confirmatory letter from Mr L on 
26 February. The transfer was completed, and the pension savings sent to the new scheme, 
on 1 March.
In January 2017 The Pensions Regulator (TPR) appointed a new independent trustee to the 
OPS. Mr L says that his investments in the scheme will result in him suffering a significant 
loss and he will potentially need to pay additional tax in relation to the initial transfer fee he 
received. He says that Aviva should have taken steps to contact him at the time of the 
transfer and make him aware of the possible dangers he was facing.
One of our investigators has assessed Mr Ls complaint. She didnt think that sufficient time 
had elapsed between the introduction of new guidance by TPR and the transfer being made 
for Aviva to embed that new guidance in its processes. So, in the absence of any other 
warning signs, she didnt think Aviva needed to have taken steps to make Mr L aware that 
there might be problems with the transfer that he was requesting. So she didnt think Mr Ls 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr L didnt agree with that assessment. He thought that some information issued by TPR in 
2012 should have put Aviva on notice that he might be at risk from a pension liberation scam 
and should have suggested he take further advice. He says that the documentation the OPS 
provided to Aviva shouldnt have given the firm much confidence about the transfer. And he 
says that Aviva failed in its duty to act in his best interests.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
At the time Mr L requested the transfer of his pension no specific guidance had been issued 
by The Pensions Regulator (TPR) on how businesses should deal with transfer requests. 
However, there was some emerging knowledge throughout the financial industry of pension 
scams and fraud and there is evidence that the Financial Services Authority (FSA, 
subsequently the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) and other regulatory bodies such as 
TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned about the dangers of pension liberation 
schemes
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to schemes 
that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax and/or result in 
cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as a loan. Particular 
concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the fees charged and potential 
investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was working closely with HMRC and 
TPR to find out more information and encouraged affected consumers to contact FSA, 
HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and had 
closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. The 
FSA was involved in this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. The 
warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold callers that encouraged 
people to transfer in order receive cash or access a loan.
And then, on 14 February 2013, TPR launched its scorpion campaign. The aim of that 
campaign was to raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance for 
transferring schemes dealing with transfer requests on steps they could take to prevent 
liberation from happening. In particular the campaign provided information to scheme 
administrators about six specific warning signs and a checklist that could be used to 
establish the liberation dangers of the receiving scheme. And it provided a short insert, and a 
longer leaflet, at least one of which should be sent to all members who were requesting a 
transfer.
Financial Services Authority (FSA) Principles for Businesses
As Mr Ls policy was a personal pension, Aviva was regulated by the FSA in its operation. 
There have never been any specific FSA/FCA rules on the checks transferring providers 
need to make before someone can transfer from a personal pension but the FCA Handbook 
set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out their business; and 
firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance from the 
FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension 
liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles that firms must adhere to 
and I consider the most relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension 
liberation to be the following:Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair, and not misleading.
Did Aviva follow the relevant guidance and rules?
I think I should first deal here with the outputs of the scorpion campaign. As I said earlier, 
that campaign was launched on 14 February 2013. But I think it is important to note that the 
scorpion guidance was very much a step change in how these sorts of transfers should be 
viewed. I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that it represented a formalisation of 
what might have been considered best practice in the years or months before. 
So I think it would be reasonable that a period of implementation should be allowed  where 
firms can update their processes and procedures to take account of the new responsibilities. 
Mr L has suggested that Aviva should have suspended its activity on transfer requests whilst 
those changes took place. But I dont agree  I think it was reasonable for Aviva to continue 
under its existing processes whilst the changes were being assessed and implemented.
Mr L first asked for the transfer to commence at the end of January 2013. And the formal 
request from his new scheme was received by Aviva on 12 February. Both of those events 
were before the scorpion campaign was launched. And the transfer finally completed on 
1 March  just two weeks after the scorpion materials were introduced. I dont think it would 
be reasonable to expect Aviva to have taken account of those additional requirements when 
dealing with Mr Ls transfer request.
As Ive said there was some knowledge of pension liberation and scams throughout the 
industry when Mr L requested the transfer of his pension. So its reasonable that Aviva 
should have been aware of the threat and been familiar with TPR announcements. So Id 
expect Aviva to have acted using its own judgement and discretion when handling pension 
transfer requests at that time as well as acting in line with the FSAs Principles for 
Businesses in all it did.
So these are the points I have considered in my decision, as well as taking account of what 
good industry practice was at the time.
When Mr L transferred his pension, providers would typically check that the receiving 
scheme was registered with HMRC and would only investigate further if it was apparent that 
the transfer was, in some way, suspicious. Aviva has told us that the transfer request it 
received included a copy of the relevant HMRC registration details for the scheme. Although 
I havent seen a copy of that information I have no doubts that it was safely received by 
Aviva and that the scheme was correctly registered.
I have noted that the scheme address was geographically far away from where Mr L lived 
and the CMC feels this was something that Aviva should have questioned. If this had been 
after the scorpion guidance had been incorporated in Avivas processes, I would have 
agreed with the CMC. But again, this doesnt seem to have been something TPR had raised 
as an issue previously so theres no reason why it would be a concern to Aviva. In many 
companies with a regional presence as well as a head office, the employers main address 
may be far from where some employees live.Turning now to the information Aviva sent out to Mr L at the time of his first information 
request. That letter provided him with information about his policy. And specifically, the letter 
sent directly to him states Aviva strongly recommends that you seek financial advice before 
making any decisions. 
Taking all of this into account as well as the time the transfer request was made, I think 
Aviva provided Mr L with sufficient opportunity to check whether he was happy with the risks 
involved in this transfer which he didnt take up. And while I accept there was no mention of 
any potential fraud involved, given this was before regulators issued any specific guidance to 
transferring schemes on the subject, I dont think this was a failing on Avivas part.
The FSA Principles for Businesses
While Mr L has said Aviva didnt adhere to the FSA principles when it processed his transfer 
Im satisfied the principles shouldnt be interpreted as meaning Aviva should have 
investigated every transfer to the level of detail that he suggests as a matter of course. Even 
when the first guidance in this area  the scorpion guidance  was introduced at the same 
time of the transfer, it didnt require providers to conduct the same level of exhaustive 
enquiries on every transfer whether warning signs were present or not. So I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to have expected Aviva to be automatically suspicious of all 
transfers when the regulators, after considering the issue carefully, evidently didnt think that 
was necessary later on.
Furthermore, whether I can fairly say these rules should have led Aviva to carry out a 
specific investigation on the transfer, to protect Mr L from possible liberation, largely 
depends on how likely it was viewed at the time that any particular transfer was at risk of this 
activity. I say this because there was always the risk of legitimate transfers being caught up 
in indiscriminate enquiries. And as already mentioned above at this stage, the regulators and  
HMRCs own position was that they were still taking steps to find out more about the 
problem.
So, on balance, I dont agree its reasonable to give the FSA principles and rules the context 
of industry intelligence that was subsequently compiled and circulated after Mr L transferred. 
TPR seems to have eventually decided that regulators and other agencies couldnt tackle 
the issue alone  and further intervention by pension providers was necessary. But that 
wasnt the position at the time of Mr Ls transfer. Therefore, I am of the view that Aviva 
adhered to and met the FSA s Principles for Businesses in dealing with Mr L. I am satisfied 
it provided Mr L with the information he needed and did make it clear that transferring was 
an important decision which he should be advised about. 
Overall therefore, while I can understand the difficult position Mr L has now found himself in, 
at the time of his pension transfer the issues he has raised werent considered enough of a 
cause for concern for providers across the board. This was, after all, a rapidly emerging 
issue. So individual providers, who would only have seen a small proportion of all activity in 
this area, wouldnt necessarily have had a comprehensive enough view of pension liberation 
schemes to have appreciated what the potential risk factors were before the scorpion 
guidance  which did begin to catalogue these risk factors  was issued. Of course, some 
providers may have had an awareness of specific liberation risks ahead of the scorpion 
guidance because they may, for example, have received a sudden increase in transfer 
requests to a previously unknown scheme. But I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Aviva had, or should reasonably have had, this sort of awareness in Mr Ls case.
It therefore follows from the above that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. I recognise how 
disappointing this will be for him but for the reasons given above, Im satisfied Aviva acted in 
line with what was required of it at the time.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman