DRN-2856807
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc did not action his request to close his 
account in a reasonable time. 
What happened
Mr F opened an account with Co-Op on 19 March 2021. On 28 March he raised a complaint 
with Co-Op as he hadnt received his card and PIN after a few days. Co-Op agreed to send 
a new card and PIN and to give him access to the SMART pay feature. This would allow him 
to access the account in the meantime. But Mr F asked for the account to be closed instead. 
Mr F called Co-Op on 7 April to complain that the account was still open because he had 
received an email from Co-Op. He said this had caused him distress, as he had health 
issues. He asked for £70 compensation.  
Co-Op said the account had been in the process of being closed and that no bank error had 
occurred. It said the email it sent was a marketing email which would have been sent even if 
the account had been closed on the day requested. It offered Mr F £10 for the cost of the call 
he made on 7 April. Mr F wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded that Co-Op hadnt made an error. Mr F didnt agree and asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr F but having done so I wont be asking Co-
Op to do anything further. This decision concerns the complaint about the closure of the 
account and not the complaint about the card and PIN. 
Im very sorry to hear that Mr F has had some health issues and I can understand why 
receiving unexpected email may cause distress if the customer believes the account 
shouldve been closed by then. 
When a customer shuts down an account its reasonable to expect this process to take a few 
days. Ive listened to both complaint calls to Co-Op. Mr F called to close the account on 28 
March. This was a Saturday. He then called following receipt of the email on Wednesday 7 
April. This was after the Easter bank holiday long weekend and included only 6 working days 
since 28 March. Co-Op didnt give Mr F a timeline for closure of the account. We dont have 
the power to tell a bank how it develops its internal policies so I am unable to say how long it 
should take to close an account, thats up to the bank, but I would expect it to be within a 
reasonable time period. Im satisfied that when Mr F spoke to Co-Op on 7 April it had taken 
reasonable steps to close the account and was in the process of doing so. I dont think it did 
anything wrong.
  
Co-Op has said it doesnt send emails to customers concerning their accounts and that the 
email it sent on 6 April was a marketing one. It said it would have been automatically 
generated during the time the account was in the process of being closed. Ive seen no 
reason to dispute this explanation and given the account hadnt yet closed consider it 
reasonable that during this process marketing communication might be sent if Mr F had 
previously indicated he was open to it.  
Co-Op said it wasnt aware that Mr F had health issues. Ive seen the system notes and this 
is not mentioned prior to 7 April. So while I appreciate the email caused Mr F some distress 
this is not something I can hold Co-Op responsible for. 
My final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £10 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay Mr F £10, if it has not already 
done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman