DRN-1689509
 Complaint
Mr L says Western Circle Limited (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr L 
says he borrowed from Western Circle in order to repay other short-term loans and that 
these loans caused him financial hardship.
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld in full. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of 
this final decision:
 
What I said in my provisional decision:
This complaint is about two loans Cashfloat provided to Mr L between January and April 
2019. Based on the information provide to us by Cashfloat, a summary of Mr Ls lending 
history is as follows:
loan 1 was for £500 to be repaid over three instalments of £224.90. This loan was 
taken out on 7 January 2019 and repaid on 21 March 2019.
 loan 2 was again for £500 and was due to be repaid over four instalments of 
£199.62each. This loan was taken out on 26 April 2019 and repaid on 23 October 
2019.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He thought the checks carried out 
by Cashfloat were proportionate and, based on the information Mr L provided, it 
was reasonable of Cashfloat to believe that Mr L would be in a position to afford the 
loans. Cashfloat appear to have agreed with the adjudicators recommendation.
However, Mr Ls representative didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. Mr 
Ls representative said that Mr L was in financial hardship at the time and he was having 
to borrow from one payday lender in order to repay another.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to review for a 
final decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Having reviewed Mr Ls complaint which includes the credit check results provided to us 
by Cashfloat, I think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld in full and Ive explained my reasons 
for doing so below.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand 
whether Mr L could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms 
of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income was low 
or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater 
the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So 
wed expect a lender to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to 
a customer irresponsibly.
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mr Js applications after he provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. And, based on what he declared, the information 
suggested that Mr L would be able to make the repayments he was committing to. So, in 
these circumstances it wasnt irresponsible to provide these loans.
Mr L told Cashfloat that his monthly income was £2,500, and he declared his 
monthly outgoings were £400 when the first loan was approved, and £653 when the second 
loan was approved.
 
As this was the early stages of the lending relationship, and Cashfloat hadnt been provided 
with any information to suggest the income or expenditure was incorrect, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of it to have relied on this information. Indeed, based on the information 
Mr L declared, these loans appeared affordable for him, as he had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the monthly repayments he was committed to spending.
However, Cashfloat also told us it carried out a credit check before granting these loans. 
And having reviewed the results of its check from when loan one was provided, I dont think 
Mr L was in a position to sustainably take on either loan.
The credit check provided shouldve raised some concern with Cashfloat about Mr 
Ls financial position. At the time of loan one, it was aware that he had over £22,000 of 
personal loan and instalment credit debt. But, it was also aware that Mr K at that time had 19 
active credit accounts and had opened 20 within the last six months. The sheer number of 
new accounts Mr L was taking ought to have led Cashfloat to conclude that it was more 
likely then not he was a regular user of short-term lending and this is reflected in the 
other information Cashfloat gathered.
What appears to be a different set of results provided to us by Cashfloat indicate the types 
of product that Mr L had previously taken  and this check indicated Mr L had taken 20 
payday loans from other lenders in the year leading up to loan 1 being approved. This 
shouldve caused Cashfloat some concern. As this result indicated that Mr L had been a 
long-term user of short-term loans and on average had taken nearly two a month for the 
previous year. Finally, from the MODA credit checks, Cashfloat was aware of three 
outstanding short-term loans which, according to the check at the time of loan 1, had 
collectively outstanding balances of £1,892. So, before the first loan was approved, 
Cashfloat was aware that Mr L was already committed to repaying a significant portion of his 
income to other short-term lenders.In these circumstances, I think you ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr L wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay this loan as well as loan 2, which was taken only a few 
months later. So it is for this reason that I think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive once more considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L told us that he accepted the provisional decision. However, Cashfloat didnt respond to 
the provisional decision and has therefore not provided any further comments or evidence. 
As Mr L accepted the provisional decision and Cashfloat didnt respond with any further 
comments or evidence it wanted me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
that I outlined in my provisional decision. 
In summary, I think Cashfloat made an error when it provided Mr L with both of his loans 
because the information it gathered about Mr L from the credit reference agencies indicated 
he was a long term user of short term loans. And therefore, was not in a position to take on 
these loans. 
putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Ls credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. 
Cashfloat must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Western Circle Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman