DRN-2281322
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) handling of a 
claim made under their building warranty.
What happened
In 2014, Mr and Mrs H noticed various problems in their property. After trying to resolve the 
problems with the builder, NHBC took over the claim in 2016. It was established that the 
main beams were missing from two of the floors in the property. 
Mr and Mrs H and their family moved out to allow the repairs to take place. However, after 
the repairs were completed, Mr and Mrs H raised several concerns about the workmanship, 
as well as other matters. 
NHBC addressed some of Mr and Mrs Hs concerns, but not all of them. They therefore 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She recommended that 
NHBC revisit the property to inspect some of the items Mr and Mrs H had said were still 
damaged. However, she thought NHBC had dealt with other matters fairly, and had offered a 
reasonable amount of compensation for the inconvenience caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kitchen floor
Mr and Mrs H say the kitchen floor is uneven. However, NHBC thinks the floor was 
completed within the tolerance levels set out in its guidance. I understand NHBC says the 
floor can deviate by up to 4mm per mitre, or 8mm per two metres.
However, Mr and Mrs Hs structural engineer thought there was a noticeable slope to the 
floor and measured this to be in the region of 10mm. 
Our investigator recommended that NHBC look at the flooring again. I think thats 
reasonable. If NHBC finds that the flooring falls outside the relevant tolerance levels, I would 
expect it to deal with this. 
Window
Mr and Mrs H say that NHBCs contractor damaged a window frame when they attached a 
chute leading to a skip. NHBC didnt agree and thought the problem was wear and tear due 
to a rusty hinge mechanism. 
As Mr and Mrs H have explained that the window doesnt close properly, our investigator 
thought NHBC should carry out an inspection to establish the issue with the window. I think 
that seems fair. Ive looked at the photos of the window, and I cant see a rusty hinge that 
would obviously prevent the window from closing properly. I note that Mr and Mrs Hs 
structural engineer thought the integrity of the window frame may have been compromised 
as a result of the chute, and so its reasonable for NHBC to look into this further.
Items damaged by the removal company
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy that two items were damaged by the removal company. I agree 
with our investigator that this was the responsibility of the removal company, rather than 
NHBC. The removal company accepted they had caused the damage, and carried out 
repairs to the damaged items. I understand Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the repairs 
carried out, but I think they should raise this directly with the removal company. 
Creaking floors
Mr and Mrs H say the property still has creaking floors which havent been resolved. 
Section three of the policy says:
What NHBC will pay for
A The full costof putting right any actual physical Damage caused by a Defect in any of the 
following parts of the house
Load-bearing parts of the floors

Damage is defined as Physical damage to the Home caused by a Defect.
Defect is defined as a breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder
NHBC thinks the fact that the floors are creaking is due to their age and the materials used. I 
havent seen any evidence that the floors are creaking excessively and are a breach of 
NHBCs technical requirements. I therefore dont require NHBC to carry out any repairs in 
respect of the creaking floors.
Radiators
Mr and Mrs H say there are problems with four radiators. Theyve provided a report from a 
heating engineer (Mr R) in March 2019. 
Mr R said he attended the property as four radiators werent heating up. He noted that a gas 
company had previously thought a power flush was needed, and that the oxygen in the 
water was the problem, causing a circulation fault. 
Mr R explained that he removed the radiators before using the power flush machine, but 
found the water to be clear and no sludge in the system. Given the structural work that had 
taken place at the property, he thought the builders had pulled on the heating pipes in order 
to clear the path for the new steel supports, and that this had resulted in the plastic pipes 
becoming kinked. Mr R thought the only way to resolve the matter was for the ceilings to be 
removed and the system to be re-piped. I think NHBC raises a reasonable point that the problems with the radiators werent raised 
until 2019, yet Mr and Mrs H had moved back into the property in February 2018 following 
the repairs. If the pipes were damaged during the repairs, I would have expected Mr and 
Mrs H to have experienced problems with those radiators as soon as they moved back in. 
Nonetheless, NHBC has now offered to arrange for opening up works to take place to 
expose the pipes. Given that Mr R didnt do this, I think that suggestion seems reasonable. If 
NHBC finds that the pipework was damaged by the work carried out by its contractor, Id 
expect it to put this right.
Garden works in the alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs H say the garden in their alternative accommodation was bigger than their own 
and needed to be made safe for children, and so they had to hire a gardener.
I agree with our investigator that the cost of hiring a gardener wouldnt be NHBCs 
responsibility. NHBC found Mr and Mrs H suitable alternative accommodation whilst the 
repair work was taking place, as it was required to do. I think if Mr and Mrs H had safety 
concerns about the garden, this should have been raised with the landlord.
Utility bills
NHBC has paid Mr and Mrs H the difference between the amount they paid for their bills at 
their alternative accommodation and what they wouldve paid, had they remained in their 
own home. Thats what Id have expected NHBC to do, so Im satisfied this was fair. 
Cracking
Mr and Mrs H told NHBC they were concerned about some cracking in the walls (after the 
repairs had been completed). NHBC thought these had been caused by shrinkage. Mr and 
Mrs H wanted NHBC to visit in a years time, to make sure the cracks were indeed caused 
by shrinkage. NHBC said it wouldnt commit to this, but suggested that Mr and Mrs H 
monitor the situation, and if they were concerned that further cracking was occurring, then to 
raise this and NHBC would consider it. 
Mr and Mrs H have recently sent this service photos of crack damage in the property. I cant 
see that this has been raised with NHBC as it suggested. If Mr and Mrs H think the cracks 
have worsened since NHBC last inspected them, then they should raise this with NHBC in 
the first instance. 
NHBCs handling of the claim
In a complex claim such as this, its perhaps to be expected that there will be difficulties 
along the way. I dont think NHBC caused any unnecessary delays after taking over the 
claim. However, I think Mr and Mrs H were caused unnecessary inconvenience as a result of 
the problems they experienced with the repairs carried out, and the amount of snagging 
items that were required after the repairs had finished. NHBC has recognised this and 
offered them £1,000 compensation. Taking into account the difficulties that Mr and Mrs H 
have experienced, I think thats a fair offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require National House-Building 
Council to carry out further investigations into the kitchen flooring, window, and radiators  to establish whether its responsible for the problems and, if so, to put them right. It should also 
pay Mr and Mrs H £1,000 compensation, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman