DRN-3006199
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained about the way AXIS Specialty Europe SE dealt
with its business interruption insurance claim. Mr T, director of W, has brought the complaint
on Ws behalf.
For ease of reading, any reference to AXIS will also include their agents.
What happened
W is based in Scotland and held a business interruption insurance policy with AXIS. It
claimed on its policy after its laundrette business was impacted by Covid-19. W said it
noticed a downturn in business from 22 March 2020 and decided to close from 1 April 2020.
In May 2020, AXISs loss adjuster said they would be considering Ws claim under the
denial of access extension. However, AXIS later said that had been a mistake and Ws
claim would be considered under the extension for infectious diseases because W hadnt
been required to close.
W was unhappy with this decision as, while the liability period for both extensions was three
months, the liability period for the infectious diseases extension started before that for the
denial of access extension. AXIS said the liability period relating to the extension for
infectious disease started on 22 February 2020, which was when Covid-19 became a
notifiable disease in Scotland, rather than when Ws business was impacted.
W complained to AXIS as it felt AXISs error had caused it a further loss. It said AXIS should
be required to pay its claim under the extension for denial of access, as AXIS had initially
indicated they would. W was also unhappy with the time it had taken AXIS to deal with its
claim, in particular that AXIS felt it was appropriate to wait for the judgment on the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case.
AXIS maintained that they had applied the policy terms correctly. They said they hadnt
agreed to pay under the extension for denial of access and their comments that they were 
looking into the claim under that extension were made without prejudice. However, they
offered W £100 compensation for how they had handled things.
In September 2020, AXIS offered W £2,300 to settle its claim, which W declined. W also
complained that AXIS had deducted a £10,000 Government grant from its settlement. In
October 2020, AXIS agreed not to deduct the £10,000 W had received as a Government
grant and offered W a settlement of £12,300, which W again declined.
W remained unhappy with AXISs response and brought its complaint to us. It told us that it
had taken the decision to re-open its business on 11 May 2020 to retain its customers,
although it had continued to lose money due to the lack of custom caused by the pandemic.
While we were looking into things, W asked if AXIS could make an interim payment of
£12,300. AXIS agreed to this.
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint and recommended it be upheld in part. She
thought AXIS was correct to say that there wasnt any cover under the extension for denial of
access, and that AXISs mistake in indicating that the claim would be considered under this
extension didnt mean it needed to pay the claim under it. She didnt think the error had
caused W any financial loss because W made the decision to re-open before they were
aware that the claim would be paid under a different extension.
However, our investigator didnt think it was fair for AXIS to apply the liability period from the
date Covid-19 became a notifiable disease in Scotland as Ws business hadnt been
impacted from that date. She felt the fair and reasonable outcome was for AXIS to
reconsider Ws claim on the basis that the three-month liability period started from the date
Ws business became impacted, which was 22 March 2020.
Our investigator noted that the policy allowed AXIS to make some deductions where W had
made savings due to being closed. But she also recommended that AXIS should reimburse
W for the costs of any borrowing it had incurred as a result of not having had an interim
payment. She said that if W hadnt taken out additional borrowing, AXIS should pay W
interest at 8% simple per year from May 2020, as it had been without money it should have
had. She also asked AXIS to pay W an additional £150 to compensate for the inconvenience
it had caused.
W responded with some points but largely accepted our investigators recommendations.
However, AXIS only agreed to pay the additional £150 compensation. They said the policy
made it clear that the liability period started when the disease was discovered and didnt
agree it was fair and reasonable to change this to the date W had been impacted. AXIS also
didnt think it should pay interest on the settlement. They said W had twice refused to accept
their offer and so didnt think they would have accepted an interim settlement. AXIS asked
for an ombudsmans decision.
In response to AXISs point about the settlement offers, W said it had turned down AXISs
previous offers because they had been made in full and final settlement.
Before reaching a final decision our investigator asked W to clarify whether it had taken any
additional borrowing to cover the settlement it felt it should have received. W said it had
taken out a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) primarily to cover these losses.
I contacted W and AXIS, through our investigator, to say that I intended to find that AXIS
should have paid the claim sooner and therefore should reimburse W for the cost of any
borrowing. As BBL is 0% interest for the first year, I said AXIS should pay W interest on
any settlement amount over £12,300 at a rate of 2.5% simple (approximately equivalent to 
the interest rate on the loan) from 8 May 2021 (the first date interest is payable on the
loan) until the date it makes payment.
W responded to say it should have advised that the first date their business was affected
was 24 March 2020, as 22 March 2020 was a Sunday. I let both W and AXIS know that I 
thought Ws sales ledgers showed a downturn in sales from 23 March 2020 and, as such, I 
thought this was a fair and reasonable date for the indemnity period to start.
AXIS reiterated that, under the policy terms, the liability period started on 22 February
2020, which was when Covid-19 became a notifiable disease in Scotland and it wasnt
reasonable to deviate from these clear policy terms, as this was the risk AXIS intended to 
cover. AXIS also said it was reasonable for it to have waited for the outcome of the test case 
before it settled the claim because it could have affected the outcome.
Following the Supreme Court declarations, W let us know that it thought the declarations setout that Category 6 businesses - which it said it was  were required to close and therefore
supported its view that the claim should be covered under denial of access.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 July 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact
on Ws business. However, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this is likely
to come as a disappointment, especially as Id previously indicated I intended to uphold it.
But, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to conclude that AXIS had acted unfairly
or unreasonably. And having considered further the points AXIS made in response to my
email, I dont think they have acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to
see if AXIS have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the
policy when declining Ws claim. Ive also looked at the impact of AXIS initially telling W they
were considering the claim under the extension for denial of access and considered whether
AXIS caused unreasonable delays in their handling of the claim.
Denial of access
This extension says:
The Insurance under Section 2 is extended to include loss which results directly
from the interruption of or interference with Your Business at the Premises in
consequence of the closing of or denial of access to the whole or part of the
Premises by the order of a competent Public Authority.
Our liability under this Extension shall be limited to (three) months starting with
the date of the order of a competent Public Authority.
For this extension to provide cover, the interruption or interference with Ws business would
need to have been in consequence of the closing to the whole or part of the premises by the
order of a competent public authority.
For the purposes of the FCAs test case, the High Court and subsequently the Supreme
Court adopted a categorisation of businesses in light of the 21 March Regulations and
26 March Regulations. W has indicated that it thinks it falls under Category 6, and as such,
the extension for denial of access should apply because W was closed by a public authority.
Paragraph 52 of the High Court judgment said that the 26 March Regulations provided a list
of business in three parts. This list put laundrettes in Part 3. Paragraph 53 of the judgment
said:
Category 3: businesses listed in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the 26 March 
Regulations, such as food retailers and pharmacies. This category was excluded
from the scope of Regulation 5(1) of the 26 March Regulations.
Accordingly, I think W fell within Category 3 rather than Category 6, which includes holiday
accommodation. And as Category 3 businesses werent required to close by the 26 MarchRegulations, I dont think W was required to close by the order of a public authority. This is
supported by W choosing to close on 1 April 2020 and re-opening in May 2020, rather than
having the dates imposed by a public authority. Therefore, I dont think this extension
provides cover for the circumstances of Ws claim.
Incorrect information
W said that it was verbally informed by AXIS on 4 May 2020 that it had a valid claim under
the extension for denial of access. And this was put in writing on 14 May 2020. However, it
said AXIS changed their mind at the beginning of July 2020. W said AXIS reported that the
loss adjuster informed it that the claim wouldnt be covered in June 2020, but this wasnt
correct.
W said it had made business decisions based on thinking that its claim would be paid under
the extension for denial of access. For example, it had incurred redundancy costs it wouldnt
have done if it had known the claim was going to be considered later, under a different
extension.
AXIS accepted their loss adjuster had incorrectly said the claim was being considered under
the extension for denial of access but said this was an error and the loss adjuster had
previously made it clear that W hadnt been required to close.
Ive seen the letter from AXISs loss adjuster to W. In that letter the loss adjuster says the
claim is being considered under the extension for denial of access. However, the letter also
says that W was excepted by Government guidelines and therefore wasnt required to
close. The letter says the loss adjusters role remains without prejudice until AXIS
confirmed whether the policy would respond.
Whether the loss adjuster made an error or AXIS were initially looking to consider the claim
under the extension for denial of access, I dont think telling W they were considering this
means AXIS had a duty to pay the claim under that extension. I dont think the letter
guaranteed that the claim would be paid, as the loss adjuster said AXIS needed to confirm
cover. I also havent seen enough to persuade me that W took action which caused it a
financial loss due to being given the wrong information.
W had already closed before AXISs loss adjuster incorrectly indicated the claim was being
considered under the incorrect extension. And W told us it decided to re-open in May 2020
to ensure it didnt lose its customers. W said it needed to make staff redundant, but I havent
seen anything to persuade me this was due to being given the incorrect information from
AXISs loss adjuster.
While I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr T, as the director of W, to find out that
the period W could claim for was less than expected, that isnt something I can make an
award for, as I can only consider the impact on W. In doing so, Im satisfied that the £100
AXIS has already offered to compensate for the incorrect information is enough, based on
the information I have.
Disease
The infectious diseases/death extension that Ws claim is being paid under says:
The insurance under Section 2 is extended to include loss which results
directly from the interruption of or interference with Your Business at thePremises in consequence of
a) Notifiable Human Disease manifested by any person whilst at the Premises,
b) an outbreak of a Notifiable Human Disease within the Territorial limits,
c) injury or illness sustained by any guest arising from, or traceable to, foreign or
injurious matter in food or drink provided on the Premises,
d) murder or suicide occurring at the Premises,
e) closing of the or part of the Premises by the order or on the advice of a
competent Public Authority as a result of:-
i. defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements in the Premises, or
ii. the Premises becoming infested with vermin or pests.
Provided that You have complied fully with all statutory requirements in force at
the time of the incident relating to the maintenance of the Property or the
cleanliness or hygiene of the Property or any activities taking place there.
Our liability under this Extension shall be limited to 3 (three) months starting with
the date of discovery of the matters at a) to d) above or, in the case of e), with the
closure of the Premises.
W hasnt indicated that anyone at its premises had Covid-19 and c) - e) clearly dont apply.
So, Im going to focus on b).
I think its reasonable for AXIS to say that there was a discovery of an outbreak of a
notifiable human disease within the territorial limits on 22 February 2020, which is when
Covid-19 was made a notifiable disease in Scotland. I understand that there might not have
been a confirmed case in Scotland at that time, but the territorial limits, set out in the policy,
include the whole of the UK, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, and The High Court
judgment set out that on 31 January 2020 the Chief Medical Officer for England confirmed
that two patients had tested positive for COVID-19 in England.
I can understand why it doesnt feel fair to W that the liability start date began before its
business was impacted, given the scope of the territorial limits and that it only covers a three
month period. But, in order to uphold this part of Ws complaint Id need to decide that AXIS
had made an error in how it applied the extension or that the extension itself was unfair. In
this particular case, I think the policy wording is clear that the liability start date runs from the
date of discovery of a notifiable human disease within the territorial limits. AXIS has
explained that the policy was written this way as this is the risk it intended to cover, and I can
see AXIS has applied the cover as set out in the policy terms. Given the clear expression of
the indemnity period in this policy, and that this period is not unreasonable, I dont think I can
fairly require AXIS to extend the liability period beyond that set out in their policy.
Delays
Ive considered that AXIS wanted to wait until the outcome of the test case before making
any final payments, due to the extension for denial of access being similar to terms that were
impacted by the test case. But given Ws policy already provided cover under another
extension, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for it not to provide interim payments
sooner. If the outcome of the test case had increased the liability period, AXIS could have
made further payments later.
I understand that AXIS dont think W would have accepted an interim payment as it had
turned down two previous offers. However, W said these offers were made in full and final
settlement of its claim and so it didnt want to accept them. Whether thats the case or not, I
cant see that AXIS made it clear that the offers could be accepted on an interim basis,
pending the outcome of the test case. In requesting and taking an interim payment somemonths later, W has shown that it would likely have accepted one sooner if AXIS had made
that clear.
I can see that W made it that clear it was in need of the payment sooner. But I havent seen
anything to persuade me that there were financial losses incurred due to the payment not
being made. I say this because W told us that it took out a BBL in April 2020, in part to cover
some of the losses incurred by AXIS not making an interim payment sooner. This loan was
at 0% interest for the first year, and AXIS paid the appropriate amount to W before the end
of the interest free period; meaning that I dont think there was a financial loss to W from not
having the money sooner.
However, I do think that not offering an interim payment sooner and initially deducting the
Government grant caused W inconvenience that it wouldnt otherwise have had. Therefore, I
think that it would be fair and reasonable for AXIS to pay W an additional £150
compensation for this.
W disagreed with the findings in my provisional decision and provided a detailed response. 
In summary it said:
W had reopened on 11 May 2020 because it had been informed that the claim would 
be covered under the denial of access extension. Therefore, it expected that any 
downturn in takings would be supplemented by the settlement under the policy. W 
said this meant staff were brought back from furlough at the beginning of June. 
However, if W had known the policy wouldnt respond it would have made alternative 
arrangements to preserve money for longer. W also most likely wouldnt have closed 
in the first place if AXIS hadnt indicated to its broker that a claim for denial of access 
would be covered. 
W did have to make a member of staff redundant to reduce overheads despite the 
assistance of furlough.
W had always made it clear to AXIS that it was allowed to remain open.
W had made a number of requests for an interim payment which had been ignored 
by AXIS. 
The section in the provisional decision entitled incorrect information suggests that 
everything which follows in that section is incorrect. However, the first paragraph in 
this section accurately sets out the facts on what happened. 
AXIS took too long to deal with the claim and didnt need to ask for the financial 
information if it wasnt intending to pay the claim under the denial of access 
extension. 
It regards the additional £150 compensation for inconvenience as an insult. 
W also provided information from its broker who, in summary, said there was nothing in the 
policy to indicate that the date of discovery is the date Covid-19 became a notifiable disease. 
It added that one of Ws staff members had to self-isolate from 16 March 2020 because they 
had symptoms of Covid-19. The broker also said that AXIS had confirmed the claim would 
be covered under denial of access in March 2020, prior to W closing. Our investigator asked 
AXIS for their comments on whether they told W the policy would provide cover its claim 
under denial of access, but AXIS said they had no recollection of that. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the comments W has provided in response to my provisional 
decision, but Im not persuaded to change my view on the fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. I dont intend to repeat the findings set out in my provisional decision but will 
comment on what I think are the central points to W and its brokers responses.
  
Disease 
Ive set out in my provisional decision why I think its fair and reasonable that the date of 
discovery of the matter at b) is the date Covid-19 became a notifiable disease in Scotland so 
Im not going to repeat those reasons here. I would simply state that if you read the liability 
sentence with b) inserted in place of the matters at a) to d) it reads as follows: 
 
Our liability under this Extension shall be limited to 3 (three) months starting with the date of 
discovery of an outbreak of a Notifiable Human Disease within the Territorial Limits; 
 
I think its clear from the policy that the date of discovery is the date there was an outbreak of 
the notifiable disease within the territorial limits. 
 
W provided information to indicate that one of its employees had to self-isolate from           
16 March 2020 after experiencing symptoms of Covid-19 and therefore thought there should 
also be cover under a). W said the employee was at Ws premises on14 March 2020 and 
started experiencing symptoms on 15 March 2020. 
 
Unfortunately, I dont think the policy provides cover in these circumstances. I say that 
because the policy requires the interruption to Ws business to be in consequence of a 
notifiable disease manifesting itself as the premises. In order for Covid-19 to have 
manifested itself at Ws premises, I think the employee would have either needed to have 
had symptoms or been diagnosed with the disease at the time they were at the premises. As 
they didnt have any symptoms until the day after they were at Ws premises, I dont think it 
can be said that Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises. 
 
Incorrect information 
To clarify, I used this heading in the provisional decision to consider the impact of any 
incorrect information given by AXISs loss adjuster. I dont consider the information given by 
W in the first paragraph under the heading to be incorrect.
   
Ws broker has also said that it was told in March 2020 by AXIS that Ws claim would be 
covered under the extension for denial of access. The loss adjusters report says that AXIS 
told them the claim would be considered under the extension for denial of access, so I think 
its likely AXIS at first thought the claim would be considered under this extension. However, 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that AXIS told W or its broker that the claim had 
been accepted under this extension, only that it was being considered. Information from Ws 
broker indicates that on 30 March 2020 they were told that W would need to close before a 
claim could be considered.  
I appreciate W doesnt accept my findings that the incorrect information wasnt the cause of 
its losses. W said it made the decision to close its business on 1 April 2020 as it thought any 
downturn in takings would be supplemented by the settlement. However, the loss adjusters 
report dated 15 May 2020 said that W had reported that it had closed because it had lost all 
its trade. In an email to AXIS, W also said that it closed because it had no trade. On balance, I think its likely W closed due to the lack of trade rather than because it thought its claim 
would be paid. 
 
W said it made the decision to reopen thinking that it would be paid for three months 
losses. But it also said it reopened in order to retain some of its trade. In any event, the letter 
from the loss adjuster set out that AXIS still had to confirm cover and that the loss adjuster 
was clarifying with AXIS when any liability would commence. So, by the time W made the 
decision to re-open, it was clear to W that its claim was subject to some uncertainty. 
Therefore, I dont think I can fairly hold AXIS responsible for any business decisions W 
made, such as making an employee redundant or bringing employees back from furlough. 
For these reasons, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require AXIS to pay 
anything further for initially telling W incorrectly that its claim would be considered under the 
extension for denial of access.  
 
Delays 
I accept that W made a number of requests for an interim payment which was rejected by 
AXIS. However, W took out a BBL to cover the amount it was owed. As AXIS ultimately 
made the correct payment before interest was payable on the BBL, Im not going to require 
AXIS to pay W any interest on the late payment. 
 
W has asked why AXIS took details of its losses if it didnt intend to settle the claim under the 
extension for denial of access. However, I think AXIS would always have needed details of 
Ws losses as W did have a valid claim under the extension for disease.  
I can understand Mr Ts frustration that the policy doesnt provide cover for the full three 
months given the extent that Ws business was impacted. However, I think the wording of 
the disease extension clearly sets out the liability start date, with an explicit trigger which 
isnt tied to the date the business is impacted. 
I also havent seen enough to persuade me that AXISs initial error reasonably caused W a 
financial loss. As W is the complainant in this case and a limited company, I cant make an 
award for any distress suffered by Mr T, as Ws director; but I have considered the 
inconvenience caused to W. Having done so, I continue to believe that its fair and 
reasonable for AXIS to pay W an additional £150 compensation for the inconvenience they 
caused.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I require AXIS Specialty 
Europe SE to pay W an additional £150 for the unnecessary inconvenience they caused in 
the handling of Ws claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman