DRN-3598263
The complaint
Mr S complains about Vitality Life Limited declining his income protection claim. 
What happened
I have only summarised the background to this complaint as both parties are aware of what 
happened.
Mr S is a greengrocer and has an income protection policy with Vitality Life Limited 
(Vitality). The policy is designed to provide benefit after a deferred period of three months, 
in the event of Mr S becoming incapacitated by illness or injury and being unable to perform 
his own occupation.
In October 2021 Mr S made a claim. He told Vitality hed been dealing with a challenging 
matter regarding his familys business, plus a marital separation, and since August 2021 had 
been unable to work because of stress and poor mental health. 
Vitality assessed Mr Ss claim but concluded there wasnt enough medical evidence to 
demonstrate that the policys definition of incapacity had been met. 
Mr S complained and said Vitality hadnt understood what his occupation actually involved. 
He said it was wrong of Vitality to suggest he was capable of dealing with the retail 
environment and customers, and the impact of his cluster headaches (a condition hed 
previously been diagnosed with) hadnt been considered. Mr S also said hed been assessed 
by the Health Advisory Service in relation to obtaining government benefits, that service had 
found him unable to perform any kind of work, and its assessment carried a higher threshold 
than that of the policy terms. 
Vitality acknowledged Mr S had been through a very difficult time and had experienced 
significant stress. But it said there still wasnt sufficient evidence to show hed been 
precluded from working as a greengrocer because of physical or mental illness. So, it 
maintained its position.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. They looked at everything made available 
and agreed it hadnt been unreasonable of Vitality to decline the claim on the basis of there 
being insufficient medical evidence to support incapacity. 
Mr S disagreed with that opinion and reiterated his original concerns. He also said incapacity 
had been demonstrated in both the Health Advisory Services assessment and the wider 
medical evidence. Vitality had put him at a disadvantage given his cluster headaches were a 
disability and discriminated against him. It would have paid out for other disabilities but 
hadnt done here given that discrimination and its mistake in determining the seriousness of 
his condition. And, Vitality should pay his claim as well as compensate him for both distress 
and discrimination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has set out his position at length and clearly feels very strongly about what happened. I 
hope both sides will understand that while I have considered everything, my findings will only 
focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. 
In line with the obligations placed on Vitality by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), Vitality has a responsibility to 
consider claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject them unreasonably. 
Mr S says his cluster headaches constitute a disability. Vitality says even if it did consider 
them to be a disability it didnt discriminate, it only declined Mr Ss claim due to a lack of 
medical evidence demonstrating incapacity. 
Our service doesnt have any power to determine whether Vitality has discriminated against 
Mr S or breached the Equality Act 2010. If Mr S wants such a finding he will need to go to 
court.
However, when deciding whats fair and reasonable, amongst other things, I am required to 
take into account relevant law. 
If, for the purposes of my decision, I assumed that Mr Ss cluster headaches amounted to a 
disability as defined by section 6 of the Equality Act, then the Act is relevant law for me to 
consider when thinking about whether Vitality had acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So, 
Ive taken it into account.
Having considered everything made available (and even if Mr Ss cluster headaches did 
constitute a disability) I dont think Vitality has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I think it has 
considered the available medical evidence and fairly concluded Mr S hasnt met the policy 
definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. Let me explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss cover explain a specific definition of incapacity needs to 
be met. That definition is:
illness or injury makes you unable to perform the material and substantial duties of your 
own occupation. These are the duties that are normally needed to do your own occupation 
and that cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by you or your employer. To meet this 
definition you must also not be working in any other occupation for payment or profit.
So it wouldnt be sufficient for the medical evidence in this complaint to show that Mr S had 
an illness (or a disability). It would need to show that illness (or disability) had made him 
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of his role throughout the deferred 
period. 
The GP records
Looking at these records I can see Mr S had two consultations with his GP in 2021, both 
were by phone. 
The first was on 31 August 2021, so fell within the deferred period, but it only concerned a 
lump near Mr Ss eye and contained no reference to stress, mental health, or cluster 
headaches. The second was on 6 October 2021, the same day of Mr Ss income protection claim. It did 
note a Stress-related problem (First) and Cluster headache syndrome (Review). 
Concerning the stress-related problem, the consultation notes refer to difficulties within the 
family business Mr S worked for and a spousal separation. They refer to the presence of an 
income protection policy wanting to know dates, and to Mr S sleeping poorly and looking for 
another job. They set out a sleeping pill was prescribed, advice to try a sleeping app and 
counselling was given, and a backdated fitness for work certificate citing Stress-related 
problem was issued. 
In relation to the cluster headaches the same consultation notes explain that stress was 
triggering them, and medication previously referred to by Mr Ss consultant neurologist was 
prescribed by the GP. 
Mr S has provided additional commentary about the GP records, for example that his stress 
didnt peak until the end of September 2021. That the lump near his eye might have been 
caused by stress. And that the GPs comments about stress triggering his cluster headaches 
and the prescribing of medication was because of a change in his condition; namely that the 
management of his cluster headaches had become impossible at that point. 
I thank Mr S for providing that, but I dont think it was unreasonable of Vitality to rely on the 
content of the GP records as they stood. 
Those records, including the backdated certificate and the prescribing of medication, did not 
detail the actual impact of Mr Ss ill-health on his ability to perform the material and 
substantial duties of his own occupation. They did not demonstrate the diagnosis of a mental 
health condition, nor did they specifically comment on a worsening of his cluster headaches. 
And while the records did show that additional support services were identified, those only 
appeared to have been advisory options. So, I dont think it was unreasonable of Vitality to 
find that the GP records did not demonstrate incapacity in line with the policy terms.
The consultants letters
Looking at the evidence from Mr Ss consultant neurologist I note three letters.
The first is dated 6 January 2020 but is based on an appointment from 13 November 2019. It 
provides an overview of Mr Ss history and details his reported symptoms. It also provides a 
suspected diagnosis, explains an MRI has been arranged, and confirms Mr S has been 
asked to keep a record of his attacks for the consultant to review with him.  
The second letter is dated 1 October 2020. It confirms the results of an MRI scan that took 
place on 5 September had been reviewed by a neuroradiology MDT (multidisciplinary team) 
and were considered to be normal. 
And the third is dated 26 March 2021. It explains Mr S had missed a telephone consultation 
two days earlier, no further routine appointments would be made for Mr S, but the consultant 
would happily arrange another if his headaches remained problematic. 
Mr S has said his cluster headaches were significantly worse at the time of his claim, but that 
isnt detailed in the above and Im not aware of any additional evidence from the consultant 
surrounding Mr Ss health during the deferred period/at the time of his claim. So again, I 
dont think it was unreasonable of Vitality to find that the medical evidence from the 
consultant neurologist did not demonstrate incapacity in line with the policy terms either.  
The Health Advisory Services assessmentIt wouldnt be appropriate of me to make a general finding about whether an assessment 
from the Health Advisory Service would, or should, automatically outweigh an insurers 
opinion. I have however considered Mr Ss specific assessment alongside the other 
evidence and arguments submitted in this complaint as part of my considerations about 
whether Vitality acted unfairly and unreasonably. 
The assessment seems to have taken place five months after Mr S made his income 
protection claim  I say this as it shows as being created on 9 March 2022 and completed on 
20 April 2022. 
The medical evidence that the assessment appears to have relied on is that from the 
consultant neurologist, and I have already addressed that evidence above. 
Mr Ss own reporting of matters appear to have been relied on in the assessment too. But for 
the purposes of this complaint I dont think that constitutes medical evidence.
The assessment did determine Mr S to have limited capability for work, but I dont think it 
follows that Vitality should have automatically accepted that finding as being sufficient 
evidence of incapacity for the reasons noted above. 
I do understand that Mr S has said the assessment carries a higher threshold as it relates to 
any work and not just his own occupation. But I am making a finding on Vitalitys position 
alone, and for the reasons given above I dont think it was unreasonable of it to conclude 
that the assessment did not demonstrate incapacity. 
Its not disputed that Mr S suffers from cluster headaches and has been experiencing very 
understandable stress. While I empathise with his position, having considered all of the 
available evidence and arguments Im not persuaded it was unreasonable of Vitality to find 
that incapacity in line with the policy terms had not been demonstrated. In the circumstances 
of this complaint I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably and I will not be interfering 
with its position or directing it to take any remedial action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman