DRN-4202342
The complaint
Ms H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) has 
unfairly turned down her claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H made a claim on her pet insurance policy with Red Sands, which she took out in 
September 2022, for dental treatment by her vet for her dog. 
Red Sands turned down the claim. When Ms H complained about this, Red Sands didnt 
uphold her complaint. It said Ms Hs dogs veterinary records didnt show a clear dental 
check in the previous 12 months and so, under the terms of her policy, it was unable to give 
cover.
Unhappy with this outcome, Ms H brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it upheld it. She recommended Red Sands pay the claim (plus interest and minus the 
policy excess). 
Ms H says her dogs veterinary bill was £751.86, her policy has an excess of £250 and so 
she had to find £500.86 to pay the vet bill.
Red Sands disagrees with our investigators findings on Ms Hs complaint. It says the 
combination of Ms Hs dogs previous history, alongside the vets assessment at the check 
that thered been both previous dental injuries and dental illnesses, meant Ms Hs dog had a 
pre-existing condition which the policy excluded. 
So Ms Hs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Hs policy gave her cover of up to £1,000 for dental treatment for her dog that resulted 
from an accident or illness. But the policy said this cover would only apply if:
a dental examination was carried out by a vet within the last 12 months that confirms that 
there were no previous dental injuries, illnesses or observable changes to [Ms Hs dogs 
teeth] from his normal state, condition or appearance. .
It also said: Any treatment recommended by a vet needs to be carried out within 3 months 
from when diagnosed.
Red Sands has relied on this exclusion to turn down Ms Hs claim. To decide if Red Sands 
has acted fairly and reasonably in doing so, Ive first looked at Ms Hs dogs veterinary 
records. 
These show Ms Hs dog has had a number of dental problems in the past, starting in 2016. 
In relation to the dental treatment thats the subject of this claim, Ms Hs dog was seen by 
her vet in August 2022 (following an earlier conversation by phone in June 2022) and the vet 
had noted dental disease in his records. But the vet says Ms Hs dogs teeth werent causing 
him any discomfort, so the decision was taken not to intervene at that time. By January 
2023, however, Ms Hs vet says the situation had changed and Ms Hs dog required 
intervention (which was carried out shortly afterwards and within three months of the vets 
treatment recommendation).
Red Sands says that for the dental treatment cover in Ms Hs policy to apply to her dogs 
treatment a clear dental check is needed. It says this is basically asking the vet to confirm 
that there are no pre-existing conditions.
I dont think its clear from the policy exclusion Red Sands is seeking to rely on that a clear 
dental check or confirmation of no pre-existing conditions is needed for Ms Hs dogs 
treatment to be covered. The policy says there must be no previous dental injuries, illnesses 
or observable changes in Ms Hs dogs normal state, condition or appearance. But the 
policy doesnt say what it means by normal state, condition or appearance.
Ms Hs dog is an older dog whos had dental problems in the past. From his veterinary 
history, his teeth seem to reflect his age and had been in much the same condition for a 
while. So, giving the word normal its natural meaning, I think it could reasonably be said 
that, during the veterinary examination, there were no injuries, illnesses or observable 
changes in Ms Hs dogs teeth from what was his normal state, condition or appearance. 
Because I dont think the policy term Red Sands has relied on clearly excludes the dental 
treatment Ms Hs dog had, I dont think its fair and reasonable of Red Sands to turn down 
Ms Hs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
As Ive mentioned, I understand Ms H has already settled her vets bill for her dogs 
treatment. So I direct Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to reimburse Ms H 
for that payment (but, for the avoidance of doubt, it does not have to reimburse Ms H the 
policy excess). 
I also direct Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Ms H simple interest on 
that payment at the rate of 8% a year from the date Ms H paid it to the date of payment by 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman