DRN-1908366
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly
gave him loans which he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr J took out 24 instalment loans with Sunny between April 2016 and December 2017. He
was unable to fully repay what he had borrowed and there is an outstanding balance.
He says he was borrowing to repay existing loans and his credit file shows his use of short
term loans. Mr J says he cant now repay the loans and there is a balance outstanding.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to 
have given Mr J loans 1, 4 and 5. But our adjudicator thought that Sunny should have seen 
on the figures Mr J gave that loans 2 and 3 were unaffordable. She thought that at the point 
of loan 6 Mr Js borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and Sunny shouldve seen that 
he was persistently relying on these loans and further lending wasnt sustainable.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that it didnt think Mr 
J was persistently relying on the credit and that at the point of loan 6 although he had been
borrowing for 9 months this wasnt long enough to establish a dependency. It pointed out
that Mr J was required to use only a small amount of his income towards the loans and his
borrowing pattern did not show increasing borrowing. In particular, it pointed out that for loan 
2 the loan was affordable on the figures as Mr J would have had £186.08 of disposable
income. The business did agree that loan 3 was unaffordable and also offered to refund all
interest and charges incurred from loan 20 onwards.
Mr J didnt accept that offer so the complaint was passed to me to decide. On 23 April 2020 I 
set out in my provisional decision why I was minded to agree with the adjudicator in respect 
of all the loans with the exception of loan 2. I set out in that decision why I considered loan 2 
was affordable for Mr J. Mr J replied that he agreed with my provisional decision and the 
business provided no further comments.
In the circumstances I don't see any reason to depart form my provisional conclusions which 
are set out below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J couldrepay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable
for the consumer. These factors include:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeatedrefinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether
Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to
borrow to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able 
to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr J. It asked Mr J for details of
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mr Js credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Mr J loans 1, 4 and 5 on
the basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. It was early in the
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr 
J hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these loans 
I dont think that I need to say more about them.
With regard to loan 3, Sunny has accepted that after repayment of this loan Mr J would 
have had a very small amount of disposable income making it unlikely that he could 
sustainably repay this loan. I agree that this loan was unaffordable for Mr J.
With regard to loan 2, I can see that the repayment for loan 1 was already included in Mr Js
outgoings at the point of application for loan 2. I think that this loan was affordablefor Mr J as he would have had to pay £14.92 extra from a disposable income of £186.08. So
I don't agree with the adjudicator that this loan was unaffordable for Mr J.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Js lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at
which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more
money to Mr J.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Js case, I agree with the conclusions of the
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
When Mr J took out loan 6, hed been borrowing almost continually for 9 months and
wasnt making any inroads into the amount that he owed. I dont agree that this isnt
long enough to establish a pattern of dependency. These are short term products for
unexpected expenses and Mr J was using the loans to regularly supplement his
income.
Mr J asked for loan 6, just three days after loan 5 was repaid and whilst loan 4 was
still outstanding. This pattern would suggest he needed to borrow again to fill the hole
in his finances. I think this pattern of lending shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood
that Mr J was having problems responsibly managing his money.
 
I think that Mr J lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan
6 onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
The number of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr J had been borrowing
from Sunny was likely to have had negative implications on his ability to access
mainstream credit. This kept Mr J in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 6 to 24 in addition to loan 3.
Putting things right
putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so before
taking the steps below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, fees and
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J which were
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr J originally made the payments,
to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr J as though they had been repayments
of the principal. If this results in Mr J having made overpayments then these should be
refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny should
then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B"should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr J. However if there is still an
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with
Mr J. Sunny shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already
written off.
E. Remove any adverse information recorded about loan 3. The number of loans
taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about them is adverse. So
all entries about loans 6 to 24 should be removed from Mr Js credit file. Sunny do not
have to remove any of loans 6 to 24 from Mr Js credit file until these have been repaid
but it should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Elevate Credit International Limited 
should put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman