DRN-2334713
The complaint
Ms H says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to her irresponsibly. She says she 
was overwhelmed with debt at the time and she couldnt afford to make the repayments. She 
says Mr Lender shouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Ms H between July 2018 
and January 2020.
loan date taken amount instalmentshighest 
repaymentdate 
repaid
1 18/07/2018 £400 6 £204.26 01/11/2018
2 01/11/2018 £500 6 £199.33 30/05/2019
3 02/07/2019 £500 6 £199.33 23/12/2019
4 11/01/2020 £1,000 12 £203.33 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Mr Lender was wrong to 
approve loan 4. Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the checks it 
performed before it approved loan 4 were proportionate and there was no sign of reliance on 
the lending. And Ms H didnt say she fully agreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
As no agreement was been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Loans 1 to 3
This highest repayments for the first three loans were around £200. Ive seen a record of the 
information Ms H provided when she completed her loan application. This showed that she 
had a disposable income of just under £400 for loan 1. But this amount increased 
significantly for loans 2 and 3. So it would have been reasonable for Mr Lender to think that 
these loans were affordable for her.  
I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware 
of any financial problems Ms H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate her circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely on 
the information it obtained for loans 1 to 3. And the information Mr Lender gathered 
suggested that Ms H was able to afford the repayments she was committed to making.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Mr Lender did for loans 1 to 3 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to approve them was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Ms Hs complaint about them. 
 
Loan 4
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 4 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending 
history with Ms H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Ms H was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms H had been indebted to Mr Lender for over a year and a half. So Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms H was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her 
finances and that Ms Hs indebtedness was unsustainable.
Ms Hs first loan was for £400 and loan 4 was for £1,000. At this point Mr Lender 
ought to have known that Ms H was not likely borrowing to meet an ongoing need. 
Ms H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender. Loan 4 
was for a much larger amount. Ms H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period. And it was a commitment to 
borrow for another 12 months. 
Mr Lender says that Ms H indicated that this loan was for dental work and that this 
was expensive. But its not clear to me why this shows that Ms H wasnt reliant on 
this type of credit to make ends meet. 
I think that Ms H lost out because Mr Lender approved loan 4 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Ms H loan 4.
If Mr Lender has sold any outstanding debt it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then Mr Lender 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms H having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms H. Mr Lender 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mr Lender has already written-
off.E) The overall pattern of Ms Hs borrowing by loan 4 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Ms Hs credit file. Mr Lender does 
not have to remove loan 4 from Ms Hs credit file until it has been repaid, but Mr Lender 
should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Hs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman