DRN-2569784
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly restricted access to the funds in his account after 
he was declared bankrupt in November 2019.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
TSB has shown our service its internal criteria for allowing the release of funds after 
a customer becomes insolvent or bankrupt. It requires the customer to bring into 
branch a signed letter on headed paper from the Official Receiver, dated within the 
last 5 days, which includes the customers name and account details, with the 
monetary amount of funds able to be released. I can see from TSBs call note of 
29 November 2019 that Mr S was advised of its letter criteria, so Im satisfied he 
likely knew at this point what was required.
The letters that Mr S had provided to TSB did not meet the above criteria, because 
they were either not brought into branch by him or referenced an incorrect amount to 
be released. So I do not think TSB acted unreasonably by failing to accept any of 
these letters as they did not meet its specified criteria.
Mr S is also unhappy with TSBs handling of his requests after the coronavirus 
restrictions were introduced by the UK Government in March 2020. He is unhappy 
with the length of time it took for the bank to agree a workaround for accepting the 
release of funds letter, and because the solution it eventually accepted was one he 
had already attempted prior to the restrictions. Unfortunately, the introductions of the 
lockdown and restrictions meant that many things were subject to delays while the 
country adjusted to working safely and remotely, and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that these delays were avoidable in the circumstances.
I appreciate it must have been frustrating that TSB were subsequently able to waive 
its requirement for the letter to be brought in to branch. But given the procedural 
challenges presented by the lockdown, I dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to 
have changed its stance and requirements in such exceptional circumstances, 
despite the fact that they insisted on this beforehand. 
Mr S is also unhappy that TSB eventually released his funds vie cheque. I appreciate 
it would have been more convenient for him to have received the funds electronically 
or in smaller cheques so he could have cashed them online. But a cheque is a 
legitimate form of payment, even during a pandemic, so I cant reasonably say TSB 
has done anything wrong or should pay compensation simply because it paid the full 
amount in one cheque. I understand this meant that Mr S had to arrange for it to be 
cashed in his local post office around his work commitments. But he was still able to 
access the funds this way. I also do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to 
direct a business to compensate its customers for all of lifes unexpected 
inconveniences, and the time they have to devote to carrying out administrative tasks 
such as cashing a cheque.
Mr S says that the release of funds letters should not have been necessary in the first 
place as TSB had no grounds for freezing his account. I appreciate it may not 
specifically state in the account term and conditions that his account would be frozen 
in these circumstances. But it is standard industry practice for a bank to immediately 
freeze a customers account after being notified of their bankruptcy, so as to allow for 
the Official Receiver to carrying out any necessary checks. Indeed, this fact is widely 
publicised on debt charity and bankruptcy advice websites, as well as the Citizens 
Advice Bureau. TSB ultimately has a duty to protect any assets for the bankruptcy 
estate, so it needs to ensure that the Official Receiver has no interest in the funds 
and, understandably, will only accept notification of this in a certain format to ensure 
that any funds in the account can genuinely be released to the account holder. 
Mr S also says that TSB unfairly restricted access to his DWP payments. However, I 
can see in its final response of 12 December 2019 that it said he could access his 
benefits payments without a release of funds letter, but that he would still need to go 
into branch to access it. So I dont agree that they have unfairly restricted access to 
these payments either.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but in the circumstances, Im unable 
to conclude that TSB have acted unfairly in these circumstances, so I will not be asking it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman