DRN-4050452
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about AIB Group (UK) Plc.
They say that AIB didnt do enough to protect them when Mr S says he became the victim of 
a scam.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr S received an email from H  an investment company offering binary 
options trading. Mr S had considered investments of this type before as he knew they were 
growing in popularity and promised lucrative returns.
Mr S clicked on the link provided in the email and was impressed by the company website. 
He says he found it to be extremely professional and detailed.
After reading through the website, Mr S felt he understood how the investment worked and 
decided to look into the opportunity further. He entered his details into the website and 
received a call the same day. 
Mr S was again impressed with the professional nature and knowledge of the person who 
contacted him on behalf of H and was persuaded to begin investing and downloaded 
Anydesk onto his computer.
Mr S invested with H over a period of around 18 months from his AIB account, along with 
payments made from two other banks. 
Mr S made a total of forty-two payments from his AIB account, totalling £160,735.73.
Mr S also received payments of £15,000 from H and £1,759.78 from TP which Mr S also 
made payments to through his investment journey.
Initially, Mr S says that he didnt feel pressured by Hs representative, however, as time went 
on, he was told that he wouldnt be able to access his profits until he had met a certain 
threshold.
Mr S didnt want to pay any more money  and he says that communication with H came to 
an abrupt end. He attempted to make contact, and log into his trading account but was 
advised that H was no longer trading.
Mr S believed that he had been scammed by H  and complained to AIB. He said that it 
should have intervened in the payments he made, and that it could have prevented the loss 
by doing so.
AIB didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things but 
didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. 
They said that they were not persuaded that Mr S had been the victim of a scam  and that 
H was incorporated in Belize and regulated by the International Financial Services 
Commission (IFSC) at the time Mr S made the payments  and so AIB didnt need to 
intervene in the payments. 
Mr S and his representatives replied to our Investigator, and said that Mr S had been 
refunded payments made to the same investment by his other bank, and that Mr S did not 
have the requisite capacity to be making investments  and this would have been clear had 
AIB spoken with him
Our Investigator explained that while Mr S had been refunded by the other bank this did not 
have any bearing on this complaint  and that although Mr S may have been susceptible to 
scams, as he hadnt been scammed this wasnt relevant. 
They also said that Mr S hadnt made AIB aware that he had issues making investment 
decisions.
Mr S remained unhappy  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as 
our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S, so Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options or forex trading scam
is in fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in
disappointing returns or losses. Some binary options platforms may have promoted these
productswhich are unregulatedusing sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or
misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or
omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of
proof for fraud, i.e., dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose
information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or
exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains
or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that
a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors
2012 consultation paper on investment fraud). 
So, the first question to resolve is whether H was a fraudster  and if Mr S was the victim of 
a scam.
Having examined the information Ive been provided with  I am not sufficiently persuaded 
that Mr S has been the victim of a scam for the following reasons;
H was incorporated in Belize and regulated by the International Financial Services 
Commission at the time Mr S made the payments  this would be an unusual step for 
a scammer to takeThere were no Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or International Financial Services 
Commission (IOSCO) warnings about H at the time Mr S made the payments. If H 
was operating as a scam, then I think it likely it would be listed as such
Mr S paid into the investment over a period of 18 months  I would expect that a 
scammer would attempt to relieve an individual of their funds over a quicker period
There was a gap of nearly a year between some of the payments during which time 
Mr S was still in contact with the supposed scammer
The initial payments made were made directly to H, rather than an attempt to conceal 
that Mr S was paying H, or via another method such as Cryptocurrency
Mr S received relatively high value payments from H  and while I know that these 
dont compare with the amount Mr S paid into the investment, they were still 
significant, and I dont think a H would have made such payments back to Mr S if it 
had been operating a scam
I have also considered the letter Mr S and his representative have provided from his GP and 
if this makes a difference here. I understand that Mr Ss GP considers that after Mr S 
suffered from a stroke in 2014, there were concerns that this may have had an impact on his 
cognition and that this may also have had an impact on his ability to make investment 
decisions.
However, I cant see that AIB was ever made aware of this  so I dont think that it could 
have known that Mr S was potentially a vulnerable person. And while Mr Ss representatives 
have suggested that this would have been clear if AIB had contacted him about the 
payments, Im afraid I dont agree. AIB did block some of the payments  and it spoke with 
Mr S. He told them that he wanted to make the payments  and they were released. And I 
cant say that Mr S presented as a vulnerable person during these interactions  so I dont 
think that AIB would have had any concerns.
To conclude, Im not persuaded H was operating a scam given high the legal threshold
or burden of proof for fraud. And taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that
H was in fact a fraudulent company. 
As explained previously, AIBs duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it 
is not to give investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains. Ultimately, I think 
its most likely Mr S paid a legitimate company. To that end, I cannot safely conclude that the 
bank acted unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about the 
transactions before processing them.
 
I empathise with the fact Mr S invested significant sums into a product that hasnt gone to 
plan. But this does appear to be a legitimate investment opportunity that has gone wrong, 
rather than an investment scam.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman