DRN-4118908
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has rejected part of his claim for veterinary treatment for his dog.
What happened
Mr A has had a policy with C&G for insurance for his dog, who Ill refer to as B, since 7 
January 2021. His claim limit at that time was £1,000. On 30 December 2021 Mr A asked to 
upgrade his policy to one with a claim limit of £4,000 and this took effect from 7 January 
2022.
On 11 March 2022 B suffered a bout of vomiting. He was treated by his vet which required 
out of hours care and involved fluid therapy for dehydration.
When Mr A submitted a claim for Bs treatment to C&G, C&G reviewed Bs previous medical 
history and noted that B had been treated for diarrhoea on 24 March 2021, before his policy 
was upgraded. 
It rejected part of Mr As claim on the ground that the terms of his policy confirm that the 
increased benefit limit doesnt apply to any claim where clinical signs were present before 
the upgrade date. The relevant term reads as follows:
In the event You do upgrade Your Policy, a 14 day Waiting Period will automatically 
apply to all sections of Your Policy. in addition, the increased Benefit Limits will not 
apply to any claim where the Condition, Clinical Signs, Symptoms, or Treatment started 
before the upgrade date in respect of cover for Veterinary Fees or Overseas Holiday 
cover. With respect to all other sections of cover, the increased Benefit Limits will not 
apply to any claim that occurred prior to the upgrade date.
C&G maintains that as the clinical notes provided by Bs vet confirm that B had previously 
suffered from signs and symptoms of digestive issues in March 2021 whilst Mr A was subject 
to the lower policy limit, that limit applies to his treatment in March 2022.
C&G also declined Mr As claim to the extent that it covered the cost of fluid therapy 
treatment. It maintains that this was considered to be a routine treatment that is included as 
part of other veterinary treatments and therefore not covered unless there are extenuating 
circumstances, such as if fluids are necessary to save the pets life and they would not 
survive without this additional treatment. It referred to the following policy exclusion under 
What is not insured:
Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventive and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury:
Bs vet provided her professional opinion that Bs treatment in March 2022 was not for 
diarrhoea. She said that the diarrhoea B had had in 2021 was resolved at the time by 
worming treatment, and that it was an intestinal problem. The present claim was for a 
stomach issue. She also expressed her opinion on the need for fluid therapy, stating that it:
 is a mainstay of treatment in most if not all cases of vomiting .  I wholeheartedly 
believe that [B] would have deteriorated overnight should he not have received them, 
and thus could have progressed into a life threatening situation. 
Mr A says hes suffered financially as hes had to pay the vet on his credit card which is 
incurring interest. Mr As veterinary bill for Bs treatment amounted to £1,986.53. In settling 
Mr As claim, C&G has deducted £986.53. He wants C&G to reimburse him in full for Bs 
veterinary costs.
Mr A also says that he experienced rudeness and poor communication from C&Gs agents 
when addressing his claim and obstruction when wishing to raise a complaint, and has 
suffered emotional upset and considerable stress which has affected his health. 
Dissatisfied with C&Gs final response to his complaint, Mr A brought it to this service. Our 
investigators view was that it was for C&G to establish that the diarrhoea incident in 2021 
was linked to, and was a clinical sign of, the vomiting which led to a claim in March 2022, 
and that she didnt consider that C&G had done so. But she did consider that it was 
reasonable for C&G to deduct the cost of fluid therapy on the ground that it was 
preventative, and therefore excluded by the policy.
Our investigator also considered that C&G should pay Mr A compensation of £150 for the 
upset and inconvenience hed been caused.
C&G didnt agree with our investigators view. It argued that its underwriting criteria treats 
both diarrhoea and vomiting as digestive system problems. Therefore, if B suffered a 
digestive system problem (diarrhoea) in 2021, this is a clinical sign or symptom of  a 
digestive system problem (vomiting) in 2022. The conditions are therefore linked and so any 
treatment for vomiting in 2022 is subject to the lower claim limit applicable to the diarrhoea in 
2021 when the lower claim limit applied.
As C&G didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint was referred to me as an 
ombudsman for a final decision from this service. 
I issued a provisional decision as I had a different view to that of our investigator in relation 
to part of Mr As complaint. C&G responded to my provisional decision with an offer of 
payment with which Mr A has agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to the applicable policy limit, I share our investigators view that C&G has failed 
to demonstrate any connection between Bs diarrhoea in March 2021, when the £1,000 
claim limit applied, and his vomiting in March 2022, when the £4,000 limit applied, other than 
the fact that C&G treat these both as digestive system problems. I consider this to be an 
unreasonable connection resulting in an unreasonably wide exclusion that wouldnt have 
been clear to Mr A when he took out his policy as he wouldnt have been aware of C&Gs 
underwriting criteria. 
Bs vet has provided her professional opinion that Bs previous episode of diarrhoea is not 
related to the vomiting claim - one was an intestinal problem and the other was a stomach 
problem. C&G hasnt provided any medical evidence to the contrary.I therefore dont consider that it is reasonable for C&G to apply the lower claim limit to the 
cost of Bs treatment for vomiting in March 2022.
With regard to the deduction of the cost of fluid therapy treatment, I dont share our 
investigators view. I dont consider that because a particular treatment is routine, it should 
be excluded. I consider that to be an unreasonable interpretation of the exclusion Ive quoted 
above. 
In my view, it is reasonable to read the word routine in the exclusion in the context of the 
words that surround it, namely cosmetic and elective  something that isnt required 
immediately in response to an illness or accident. I dont consider that its reasonable to 
interpret it as meaning the usual or customary treatment for a particular condition. Bs 
fluid therapy was treating an illness, and Bs vet has stressed the importance of such therapy 
in treating the dehydration caused by vomiting and has said that a failure to give this 
treatment could be life -threatening. It was preventative treatment only in the sense that it 
was preventing a life-threatening situation. It is therefore unreasonable to exclude it.
I also consider that the compensation of £150 recommended by our investigator for the 
emotional upset and stress suffered by Mr A is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding Mr As complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited: 
to settle Mr As claim by payment to him of £810.53 with interest thereon at 8% simple 
from 23 March 2022 to the date that payment is made to him.
If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
to pay Mr A £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman