DRN-2281899
The complaint
Mr V complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Flying Colours Finance Ltd 
(Flying Colours) in October 2017 to transfer the capital value of his preserved benefits in 
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mr V is represented in this complaint by a third party (representative).
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would be examining 
options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes, one of which was a transfer to the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation for members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from                      
31 March 2017. Then in May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement had been agreed. Under the announced plans, Tata Steel 
agreed to set up and sponsor a new defined benefit pension scheme, the BSPS2, subject to 
certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
These changes were communicated to BSPS members including Mr V under the Time to 
Choose exercise. BSPS members had three options regarding their preserved benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF.
Mr V met an adviser from Flying Colours for advice on his options. Flying Colours recorded 
details of Mr V and his wifes personal and financial circumstances as follows:
He was 45, in good health and employed by British Steel with a gross annual salary 
of £31,000  he had been with the same employer for over 21 years and planned to 
partially retire at 60 and then fully retire at 68 when his state pension started;
His wife was 38, in good health and employed in financial services with a gross 
annual salary of £44,000  she had been with the same employer for over 10 years 
and planned to fully retire at 68 when her state pension started;
Their joint net annual income covered outgoings with minimal disposable income 
remaining;
They had three children aged 5, 14 and 16, the eldest of which was Mr Vs stepson 
who was disabled and would be a financial dependant for life;
Their assets totalled £264,000 which comprised the marital home valued at £260,000 
and £4,000 in cash savings;
Their liabilities were an outstanding repayment mortgage of about £147,000 on the 
marital home and two car loans;
He was an active member of the British Steel defined contribution pension scheme 
and had been since April 2017 after the BSPS had closed; and
His wife was an active member of her employers defined contribution pension 
scheme and had been since 2007. 
Mr Vs preserved benefits in the BSPS were as follows:
He had 21 years and 10 months qualifying service between July 1994 and                   
May 2016;
The scheme pension payable was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to his 
final salary and pensionable service  as at the date of leaving the scheme in                   
May 2016, his annual scheme pension was £10,336;
The scheme pension built up since July 1994 comprised several elements, each part 
of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme 
normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a 
prescribed amount depending on Mr Vs qualifying service;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed;
While the scheme normal retirement age was 65, benefits could be taken earlier from 
55 subject to a reduction for early payment; 
At retirement he could exchange some of his scheme pension for tax free cash;
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions plus interest and a 50% 
spouses pension would be payable  after retirement, a potential lump sum 
equivalent to his remaining annual pension between the date of death and five years 
after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses pension thereafter calculated as if no 
tax-free cash was taken by Mr V at retirement; plus
A dependants allowance for qualifying dependants calculated as five sixths of the 
spouse's pension with this amount being shared between dependants.
Regarding Mr Vs preserved benefits in the BSPS, Flying Colours recorded his objectives as 
follows:
You cannot foresee being able to continue to perform your current role for British 
Steel past the age of 60 as the work is physically demanding. You would like the 
opportunity between the age of 55 and 68 to take on a less physically demanding 
role, possibly on a part-time basis either with British Steel or another employer and 
utilise the flexibility and benefits of your pension fund in order to supplement your 
income where or if needed.
Your eldest son [stepson]and as such will be largely dependent upon both of you 
for the rest of his life.as you are not [stepson]s biological father, you are mindful 
that it cannot be certain that the Trustees of the British Steel Pension Scheme would 
consider him a dependant of yours. You want to ensure that in the event of your 
death, [Mr Vs wife] and all of your children could benefit from your pension benefits, 
especially [stepson] as he will not be able to lead a fully independent life.To consider your options and receive financial advice with regard to your deferred 
benefits within the defined benefit British Steel Pension Scheme, in light of recent 
announcements made by the scheme Trustees and changes in the transfer value 
calculation procedures. In addition, you are very aware of the possible changes to 
benefits built up within the scheme and the likelihood of the scheme falling into the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF) which is a primary reason for seeking financial 
advice.
Flying Colours recommendation
In October 2017, Flying Colours issued a suitability report to Mr V setting out its 
recommendation that he transfer the capital value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS, 
valued at £268,691, to a SIPP (Option 3). The transfer value of £268,691 had been reduced 
by 5% (or £14,141) due to the BSPS being in deficit (a previous transfer value had been 
reduced by 8% but transfer values increased following a cash injection into the BSPS by 
Tata Steel).
The Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report showed the following critical yield 
figures:
Scheme At age 60 
based on 
full 
pensionAt age 65 
based on 
full 
pensionAt age 60 based on 
reduced pension and 
maximum tax-free 
cashAt age 65 based on 
reduced pension and 
maximum tax-free 
cash
BSPS 8.04% 7.1% Not calculated Not calculated
PPF 6.95% 5.71% 6.44% 5.27%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 wasnt calculated. But it was known at the time Flying 
Colours advised Mr V that the BSPS2 could potentially pay a higher level of benefits 
compared to the PPF but lower than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 at 
60 and 65 likely fell somewhere in between the figures above.
Flying Colours explained in the suitability report the reasons for its recommendation, as 
follows:
My advice has therefore taken account of your objective and priorities. As such I 
recommend that you transfer your existing Defined Benefit pension with British Steel, 
to a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Flying Colours as this is the 
most suitable solution for you, taking into consideration your stated objectives and 
requirements, the current state of the British Steel scheme, the potential reduction in 
future benefits and the enhanced transfer value currently on offer [enhanced 
compared to the previous transfer value as noted above].
The proposed transfer will minimise the charges applicable in view of the low charges 
applied by Flying Colours and provide your pension fund with a large amount of 
investment diversification, thus helping to reduce investment risk and volatility.
Should your requirements change in the near future or as you approach your 
retirement, you will have the utmost flexibility to begin taking an income by the way of 
regular withdrawals or on an ad hoc lump sum basis. These payments will be 
assessed for tax at that time.
It is vitally important not only to consider the benefits obtained from the proposed 
transfer of your defined benefit pension scheme, but also those being lost as part of the transfer. A defined benefit pension scheme has guaranteed and safeguarded 
benefits, meaning that your personal benefits from the scheme are defined and 
guaranteed in most circumstances.
This would be defined benefits, guaranteed pensions including Guaranteed Minimum 
Pensions (GMPs) and Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GARS). At the date you left the 
British Steel Pension Scheme you had accrued a GMP of £308.08 per year, which 
was accrued when the scheme was contracted out of Second State Pension prior to 
1997. At the date of leaving, you had accrued £10,335.90 in annual income. Based 
on the revaluation factors of the scheme, I have estimated that the benefits payable 
to you from when you are 65 would be approximately £17,099. At age 60, the figures 
would look different and pay a reduced amount of income, which I have estimated to 
be around £12,358. This is detailed within the TVAS report that can be provided upon 
request. Please note that the projected figures provided within this report and the 
TVAS document could be subject to change, depending on the pending changes to 
the scheme.
Mr V accepted the recommendation. The transfer value was invested in a new SIPP in the 
Flying Colours Core Balanced Portfolio which was managed on a discretionary basis. That 
particular portfolio was recommended by Flying Colours because it had assessed Mr V as 
having a medium risk profile which was defined as: People in this category have a medium 
risk tolerance and would probably prefer investments to fluctuate less and make more 
modest returns than risk losing money for higher returns. However, you are probably 
prepared to accept some fluctuation in order to make higher returns than exclusively low risk 
investments.
Flying Colours initial adviser fee was approximately £5,374 based on 2% of the transfer 
value. In addition, the ongoing annual charge was 1.46% of the SIPP fund value (1% adviser 
charge, 0.34% platform charge and 0.12% fund management charge).
Flying Colours also recommended Mr V and his wife start a joint life decreasing term 
assurance and critical illness plan for a starting sum assured of £147,166 over a term of                 
19 years. This was designed for mortgage protection purposes in the event either Mr V or his 
wife died or suffered a critical illness during the remaining mortgage term. This 
recommendation involved replacing existing life cover that Flying Colours had deemed 
inadequate. Mr V and his wife initially accepted the recommendation for the joint life plan but 
ultimately declined it due to unaffordable premiums after the underwriting process had been 
completed.
In late 2018, Mr V terminated his relationship with Flying Colours due to his dissatisfaction 
about the investment performance of his SIPP and the cost of the ongoing adviser charge. 
At that time, his SIPP was valued at £252,098.
This complaint
In October 2019, Mr Vs representative complained on his behalf to Flying Colours about the 
suitability of its pension transfer advice in October 2017. The representative provided, in 
summary, the following key points of complaint:
Before Mr V had met Flying Colours, his only objective was to ensure the security of 
his preserved benefits and doing what was best for him and his family;In the event of his death, Mr V wanted to provide for his family, particularly his 
stepson who was likely to be a financial dependant for life;
Flying Colours misled Mr V to believe that if he didnt transfer out of the BSPS, the 
value of his preserved benefits would be lost in the event of his death  but if he 
transferred to a SIPP he could leave the transfer value to his nominated 
beneficiaries;
Flying Colours misled Mr V to believe that it was very unlikely his stepson would be 
entitled to benefits from either the BSPS (or subsequently the PPF) or BSPS2 
because he wasnt his biological father and the only guaranteed way to provide for 
him was by transferring to a SIPP  Mr Vs representative said this wasnt true and 
that his stepson wouldve met the definition of child for the purposes of a 
dependants allowance in the BSPS scheme rules, which were carried over to the 
BSPS2. The representative stated that biology isnt a determining factor and, due to 
his condition and high levels of dependency, Mr Vs stepson wouldve been entitled 
to receive a dependants allowance for life in the event of Mr Vs death;
Flying Colours didnt consider alternative options such as life cover to meet Mr Vs 
objective of providing death benefits for his beneficiaries;
There was inadequate analysis and explanation of the other options available, 
including the PPF and BSPS2, meaning Mr V was unable to make an informed 
decision  rather, his recollection was that discussions focused only on transferring to 
a SIPP;
Mr V didnt understand how valuable safeguarded benefits were until after he had 
transferred to a SIPP  he now knows that if had he opted for the BSPS2, none of 
the risks wouldve fallen on him and so he wouldnt have to worry about movements 
in the investment markets, inflation or charges. Rather, hed have peace of mind and 
a guaranteed scheme pension for life;
Flying Colours had breached various requirements in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook including COBS 4.2.1(1)R, COBS 9.2.1(1)R, COBS 9.2.1(2)R, 
COBS 9.2.2R and COBS 19.1; and 
To put things right, Flying Colours should place Mr V into the position hed now be in 
had he not transferred to a SIPP and instead opted for the BSPS2.
Flying Colours response to this complaint
Flying Colours didnt uphold the complaint. In its response to Mr Vs representative it said, in 
summary, the following:
The recommendation to transfer was reviewed by its Advice Committee and Pension 
Transfer Specialist where it was noted that some of Mr V's objectives could be 
achieved without having to transfer  however, two of his primary objectives couldnt, 
these being provision of care for his stepson and concerns about his employer, 
British Steel, ultimately not being able to provide benefits;
Based on these two objectives not being able to be achieved under the BSPS, it was 
recommended that Mr V transfer to a product that could better meet these; and
Mr V failed to continue to remain invested in the recommended investment solution as he had unexpectedly decided in late 2018 to switch into different funds  at no 
point before this complaint did Mr V raise any concerns about Flying Colours advice 
to transfer out of the BSPS or that it didnt meet his objectives.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Vs representative referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld. Overall, she thought that 
Flying Colours advice wasnt in Mr Vs best interests and therefore couldnt be regarded as 
suitable. She concluded, in summary, the following:
Mr Vs preserved benefits in the BSPS represented the significant proportion of his 
retirement provision and wouldve essentially still been available had he opted for the 
BSPS2 because it too provided a scheme pension, albeit on less generous terms 
than the BSPS;
The BSPS2 wouldve provided to Mr V a no cost, no risk, guaranteed, index-linked 
scheme pension for life and for his wife and children in the event of his death;
While she recognised it was important for Mr V to provide death benefits for his 
family, the primary objective, given his wider circumstances, ought to have been the 
provision of a guaranteed, scheme pension in retirement;
The required average annual growth rate on the recommended SIPP to match the 
relinquished benefits meant Mr V wouldve had to expose the transfer value to more 
risk than he was likely willing and able to tolerate  our investigators view was that 
the transfer presented a high risk the eventual pension benefits would fall short of the 
scheme pension expected from the BSPS2;
There was insufficient evidence to indicate that Mr V had a genuine need to access 
his pension benefits flexibly  on the contrary, his desire to partially retire early and 
supplement this with part-time earned income couldve been achieved by opting for 
the BSPS2 and likely at a higher level than could reasonably be achieved sustainably 
by the SIPP;
There was inadequate evidence that Flying Colours had considered and discounted 
alternative options to meet Mr Vs objectives;
Mr Vs objectives about protecting the value of his scheme pension and providing 
benefits for his family in the event of his death couldve been met by opting for the 
BSPS2 rather than the SIPP; and
Mr Vs concern about the BSPS and the BSPS2 falling to the PPF wasnt a justifiable 
reason for transferring to the SIPP which led to the loss of a guaranteed, scheme 
pension.
Our investigator recommended that Flying Colours assess whether compensation is due on 
the basis that Mr V wouldve opted for the BSPS2, but for its advice.
Flying Colours response to our investigators findings
Flying Colours didnt accept our investigators findings. It said, in summary, the following:Mr V clearly demonstrated that he had already made his mind up to transfer out of 
the BSPS before their initial meeting took place. It said Mr V had told it that he 
couldnt achieve all his key objectives by staying in the BSPS (and subsequently the 
PPF) or opting for the BSPS2;
It recognised its obligations under the FCAs COBS rules and the need to evidence 
suitability  it stated that, as a firm of financial planners, its held to account by the 
FCA to provide individual, bespoke and holistic financial advice that meets clearly 
identified and substantive objectives, which is exactly what it did in Mr Vs case;
Mr V had clear objectives to retire early due to the physical nature of his job. He also 
had a strong desire to secure the best possible death benefits for his family. It was 
satisfied its advice fully aligned with Mr Vs objectives and it had evidenced 
compliance with the FCA COBS rule that the transfer to the SIPP was in the clients 
best interests;
In its view, Mr V wasnt seeking an uplift on his scheme pension but instead to meet 
unique and specific objectives including the protection of a highly dependent child 
which couldnt be met by the other options available;
In 2017 Mr V declined the recommendation for mortgage protection cover at the end 
of the advice process due to unaffordable premiums after the underwriting process 
had been completed. So it was unlikely, due to lack of affordability, that he wouldve 
accepted a recommendation that entailed opting for the BSPS2 and starting new life 
cover to meet his death benefit objective; and
The evidence shows Mr V had carefully considered and strongly argued that the 
protection of his partner and children (including the lifelong protection of his stepson) 
was of greater importance to him than the level of pension income itself. This is 
supported by the fact that in its fact find document Mr V neither identified when he 
was most likely to take benefits or what level of retirement income he might need.
Our investigator responded to Flying Colours comments. She agreed that there were certain 
objectives Mr V wanted to achieve in connection with his preserved BSPS benefits 
concerning providing for his family and the ability to partially retire at 60. But she disagreed 
about the degree to which these could be considered as highly motivating reasons such that 
it was suitable for Mr V to give up the safeguarded benefits option that wouldve been 
available to him had he opted for the BSPS2.
Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is most likely to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
What follows isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
Flying Colours advised Mr V but provides useful context for my assessment of its actions 
here.
The FCA sets the rules and guidance that regulated businesses must follow when advising 
clients on pension transfers. As a regulated business, Flying Colours was required under 
COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the 
rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated businesses, like Flying Colours, take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure 
theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objective and 
risk profile. In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 
9.2.2R, Flying Colours needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident its 
advice met Mr Vs objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of 
COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find 
process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients best 
interests.COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
The FCA requires businesses to adhere to these requirements because it considers 
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, 
Flying Colours had to start by assuming the existing scheme to be suitable for Mr V and only 
to recommend a transfer to the SIPP, which would convert safeguarded benefits into flexible 
benefits, if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests.
The situation for Mr V wasnt normal because the existing scheme, the BSPS, was closing. 
So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his preserved benefits to a new 
scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr V to retain safeguarded benefits, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr V, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension plan to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if deemed suitable  the PPF 
didnt offer these additional features.
So while the situation wasnt normal, Mr V still had the option to retain safeguarded benefits 
in either the PPF or BSPS2. Due to his age and circumstances, its my view Mr V wouldve 
been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF in 2017. Given the FCAs view on 
safeguarded benefits, its my fair and reasonable opinion that Flying Colours shouldve 
started its advice process by assuming the BSPS2 was suitable for Mr V and to only 
recommend a transfer to the SIPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests. 
Ive considered this in the sections below.
Flying Colours rationale for recommending the transfer to a SIPP
In its response to this complaint, Flying Colours said Mr V had already decided he wanted to transfer the value of his preserved BSPS benefits to a SIPP when they met and that he had 
only sought professional advice simply to facilitate the transfer. Mr V may have had strong 
views about British Steel and the security of his preserved benefits. But its my opinion this 
stemmed from an uninformed position because Mr V wasnt qualified to form an expert view 
on the merits or otherwise of transferring to a SIPP. He had appointed and was relying on 
Flying Colours to provide expert, independent advice and to act in his best interests. Flying 
Colours was the professional party in the transaction and was required to provide a 
recommendation that was clearly suitable for Mr V.
Flying Colours says Mr V had three broad objectives which could only be achieved by 
transferring to the SIPP in 2017. These objectives concern early retirement, death benefits 
and security of pension benefits. Ill deal with each objective in turn.
Early retirement objective
Mr V was 45 at the time of Flying Colours recommendation. The evidence shows he wanted 
to partially retire at 60 because his work was physically demanding. And that he wanted to 
achieve this objective by taking some of his pension from 60 and supplementing this with 
part-time employment either with British Steel or another employer. In the suitability report, 
Flying Colours stated:
By retaining your benefits within the British Steel Pension Scheme, you are 
restricted as to how and when you take your benefits. One of your primary objectives 
is to have the ability to flexibly access your pension benefits between the age of 55 
and 68, depending on your employment circumstances at the time, as you do not see 
that it is possible to work in your current role past 60. The British Steel Pension 
Scheme will facilitate early retirement, however they apply 'Early Retirement Factors' 
which reduce your benefits. For example if you elected to take benefits from age 60, 
the scheme administrators would reduce the overall benefits to you by 18%.
I acknowledge that early payment of the scheme pension before 65 wouldve led to this 
being actuarially reduced. The SIPP option was portrayed as simply allowing for early 
retirement without the penalties which would be applied to the scheme pension. The reality 
was of course that the SIPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed before 65 and any 
resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was explained to Mr V so 
that he could understand accessing both the scheme pension or SIPP early would likely lead 
to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at 65.
Flying Colours says that Mr V required flexible income from 60 and that the only way to 
achieve this was by transferring to a SIPP in 2017. In my view, its clear the value of Mr Vs 
preserved BSPS benefits represented the backbone of his retirement provision. And that he 
would inevitably require this money to meet his core income needs in retirement. Despite 
this, I cannot see any analysis was conducted by Flying Colours to determine Mr Vs 
retirement income needs from 60 onwards. The section on the fact find document designed 
to record retirement income needs is blank. In reference to Mr V and his wife, Flying Colours 
simply recorded on the document: They do not have any specific plans or thoughts about 
how much income they would each like in retirement. 
Since early retirement was one of Mr Vs objectives and this would inevitably require income 
to be drawn from the SIPP for the reason explained, I consider it was vital that Flying 
Colours established Mr Vs retirement income needs because this is a core element of the 
advice process for an individual with an income objective  but Flying Colours didnt do this. 
So I find that theres no credible evidence Mr V had a genuine need to access his pension 
benefits flexibly. Flying Colours attempted cashflow modelling based on the total loss of Mr Vs income at 60 
to establish the shortfall in income to meet household costs, despite it being recorded he 
planned to continue with a part-time role from 60 and so would be in receipt of some income. 
The cashflow model didnt account for Mr Vs retirement income and lump sum needs, so 
was essentially worthless in terms of establishing a sustainable withdrawal rate from the 
SIPP.
Since Mr V was 45 at the time of Flying Colours advice, he couldnt draw benefits from the 
SIPP until at least 55 based on the normal minimum pension age rules that then applied. By 
transferring to a SIPP in 2017, it limited Mr Vs options later on. Had Mr V opted for the 
BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a 
SIPP at a later date when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with greater accuracy than at 45. He no longer has 
the transfer option because of Flying Colours advice. 
I cannot see how suitability can be clearly demonstrated regarding Mr Vs early retirement 
objective if his retirement income and lump sum needs werent established. Nor do I 
consider that he needed to take any action in that specific regard at 45, with many years still 
left to his prospective retirement.
Was there an alternative option to achieve Mr Vs early retirement objective?
Its my view Mr V couldve achieved his early retirement objective by opting for the BSPS2 
and drawing the scheme pension at 65 without penalty. Ill explain why. I note that Mr V had 
been an active member of the British Steel defined contribution pension scheme since                      
April 2017 after the BSPS had closed to further benefit accrual. He and his employer were, 
in total, contributing 12% of his gross annual salary of £31,000 into the new scheme every 
year. His intention was to continue working full-time with British Steel for another 15 years to 
60. Over that period, Flying Colours couldve reasonably expected that, based on Mr Vs 
salary and the contribution rate, more than £55,000 would be invested in the British Steel 
defined contribution pension scheme. Considering likely investment growth and increases in 
contributions linked to Mr Vs salary, the pot of money available at 60 would likely be 
significantly greater than £55,000. 
So any income and lump sum needs from age 60 couldve been met in the first instance by 
using money built up in the British Steel defined contribution pension scheme  this money 
could be used to secure a lifetime annuity or provide flexible benefits depending on Mr Vs 
circumstances and needs at that time. This course of action may have enabled Mr V to 
achieve his income and lump sum needs for the five-year period until he could take 
unreduced benefits from the BSPS2 at 65. This would then be followed by the full state 
pension at 68. So, from 65 onwards, most of his core retirement income needs couldve 
been met by guaranteed and escalating pensions. And if it turned out that the British Steel 
defined contribution pension scheme didnt provide adequate income for the full five-year 
period between 60 and 65, Mr V couldve taken his benefits from BSPS2 at some point in 
between, meaning the early retirement factor wouldnt be as great as at 60. Alternatively, he 
couldve considered a transfer to a SIPP at that time when his retirement income and lump 
sum needs could be determined with greater accuracy than at 45.
I havent seen evidence Flying Colours adequately considered and discounted this 
alternative course of action in meeting Mr Vs early retirement objective. 
Therefore, based on the above considerations, I disagree with Flying Colours view that the 
only way to achieve Mr Vs early retirement objective was by transferring to the SIPP in 2017. I consider his objective couldve been achieved by retaining safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS2 for the reasons explained.
Death benefits objective
The evidence shows Mr V wanted, in the event of his death, to protect and maximise the 
benefits available to his family, particularly his stepson. This isnt an unusual objective since 
most people with financial dependants want to ensure theyre protected. 
The SIPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could choose to convert 
the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump sum or income drawdown or any 
combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if death occurs under 75 the 
benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys 
marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the transfer to the SIPP 
and for the period until Mr V could draw any income or lump sums, the death benefits 
available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to the simple fact he 
couldnt access and deplete the fund value.
But Mr V was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect normal life expectancy 
into his late 70s or early 80s. As noted above, its clear the value of Mr Vs preserved BSPS 
benefits represented the backbone of his retirement provision. And that he would inevitably 
require this money to meet his core income needs in retirement. Therefore, withdrawing 
income and lump sums from the SIPP from 60, as planned, would mean that the size of the 
fund remaining in later years  when death is most likely  could be much smaller than 
expected.
Since Flying Colours failed to establish Mr Vs retirement income and lump sum needs, its 
impossible to say with any degree of certainty what fund might reasonably be available to   
Mr Vs beneficiaries based on his expected rate of withdrawal and life expectancy  and 
therefore how the SIPP might provide financial support for his wife and children, particularly 
his stepson. For these reasons, I dont agree with Flying Colours opinion that transferring to 
the SIPP provided Mr V the best possible death benefits for his family.
 
The BSPS2, on the other hand, would pay the following benefits in the event of Mr Vs death:
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions plus interest and a 50% 
spouses pension would be payable  after retirement, a potential lump sum 
equivalent to his remaining annual pension between the date of death and five years 
after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses pension thereafter calculated as if no 
tax-free cash was taken by Mr V at retirement; plus
A dependants allowance for qualifying dependants calculated as five sixths of the 
spouse's pension with this amount being shared between dependants.
If Mr V was still employed by British Steel at the time of death, a death in service lump sum 
equivalent to three times his annual salary would be payable  I note he planned to stay 
employed by British Steel for the next 15 years before partially retiring at 60, so I wouldve 
expected Flying Colours to include this prospective death benefit in the analysis. This benefit 
wouldve been paid under both the SIPP and BSPS2 options, so it was a neutral position.
It was recorded that Mr V was concerned his stepson wouldnt be treated as a financial 
dependant by the scheme trustees and therefore not entitled to a dependants allowance. 
Flying Colours stated in its suitability report:Retention of your deferred benefits would also mean that in the event of your death, 
the benefits payable would be as per the scheme rules previously stated. [Mr Vs 
wife] would stand to receive a 'Spouses Pension' of 50% should you predecease her, 
however you are concerned about [stepson] being fully dependent on you both for 
the duration of his lifetime and whether or not he would qualify as a dependent due to 
him not being your biological son. Ultimately, the payment of benefits to a dependent 
is entirely down to the Trustees discretion.
Whilst it is possible that they would deem [stepson] to be a dependent, equally they 
could view him not dependent on you as you are not his biological father.
It was due to Flying Colours apparent uncertainty regarding the trustees discretion and 
whether they would pay a dependants allowance to Mr Vs stepson that it recommended the 
transfer to the SIPP since, in its opinion, this was the only course of action to guarantee the 
provision of death benefits for Mr Vs stepson. Flying Colours internal file notes from the 
time of the advice also endorse this view. But these opinions appear to be based on 
conjecture and assumptions rather than based on any proper research or analysis on what 
decision the trustees might make.
I say this because I havent seen any contemporaneous evidence that Flying Colours 
adequately investigated the position with the scheme administrator or trustees before 
advising Mr V to transfer to the SIPP. I wouldve expected a business acting in its clients 
best interests to investigate and document this specific point since the answer would clearly 
influence the decision to transfer to the SIPP or otherwise. In response to this complaint, 
Flying Colours hasnt provided any evidence that shows the trustees wouldnt pay a 
dependants allowance to Mr Vs stepson.
So its necessary for me to decide, on the balance of probabilities, what decision the trustees 
might make in deciding whether Mr Vs stepson would qualify for a dependants allowance. 
According to the TVAS report, the definition of a financial dependant under the BSPS was as 
follows:
A child under the age of 16;
A child aged between 16 and 23 (25 where the member or former member died 
before 6 April 2006 or where the former members pension came into payment before 
6 April 2006 and the child is born before 6 April 2007) who is in receipt of a full time 
educational instruction at an educational establishment and who was wholly or 
substantially dependent upon such person for the provision of ordinary necessities of 
life;
A child who suffers from such a disability and who was so dependent on such person 
as aforesaid as the Trustee shall determine to include as a dependent child to such 
extent and for such period as the Trustee shall also determine.
My understanding is that the definition of a financial dependant under the BSPS2 is broadly 
the same. The definition of dependant doesnt refer to there being a requirement for a 
biological connection between the scheme member and child for the payment of a 
dependants allowance. And Id be surprised to see such an exclusion. I say this because 
pension scheme trustees have certain legal and fiduciary duties. These include acting:
in line with the trust deed and rules;
in the best interests of the scheme beneficiaries;
impartially; andprudently, responsibly and honestly.
Mr Vs preserved benefits included the potential provision of a spouses pension and 
dependants allowance. So the scheme trustees would, following his death, automatically 
assess whether there were any dependants  for example, a spouse, children or other 
relatives who financially depended on him.
At the time of Flying Colours advice, Mr V had been married to his wife for seven years. 
They had three children aged 5, 14 and 16, the eldest of which was Mr Vs stepson. Mr V 
and his wifes joint income paid for and provided a home for them and their three children. 
Therefore, my view is that its more likely than not that all three children financially depended 
on Mr V for the provision of ordinary necessities of life. This also seems to have been the 
conclusion of Flying Colours, given its advice was based on uncertainty as to whether Mr Vs 
stepson would be catered for within the scheme in the event of his death. And in the case of 
Mr Vs stepson, it was clear he would be a financial dependant for life due to his high level of 
dependency. In my view, if required to assess the matter, I consider it more likely than not 
that the scheme trustees, exercising their legal and fiduciary duties, would reach the same 
conclusion  I consider it highly unlikely that they would reach any other decision.
Therefore, based on the above considerations and in the absence of adequate research 
carried out by Flying Colours at the time of the advice, its my conclusion that in the event of                 
Mr Vs death, the trustees of the BSPS2 would more likely than not treat Mr Vs stepson as a 
financial dependent and pay a dependants allowance for the rest of his life due to the nature 
of his disability.
Had this been properly researched and explained to Mr V, I consider it likely wouldve altered 
his decision to transfer to the SIPP, bearing in mind his early retirement objective couldve 
also been met by opting for the BSPS2 for the reasons explained above.
Was there an alternative option to provide death benefits?
In demonstrating that the transfer to the SIPP was clearly suitable and in the clients best 
interests, Flying Colours was required, under the FCAs rules, to consider alternative options 
to meet Mr Vs objectives. Life cover can achieve the same objective of providing a lump 
sum to beneficiaries. I cannot see evidence that Flying Colours adequately investigated this 
alternative option. 
I note that in response to our investigators findings, Flying Colours said Mr V declined its 
recommendation for mortgage protection cover at the end of the advice process due to 
unaffordable premiums after the underwriting process had been completed. So it said was 
unlikely, due to lack of affordability, that he wouldve accepted a recommendation that 
entailed opting for the BSPS2 and starting new life cover to meet his death benefit objective. 
I dont think its as clear cut as this  the mortgage protection cover included critical illness 
cover which requires more detailed underwriting and is more expensive than pure life cover 
because of the greater probability of a claim during the policy term. Pure life cover is 
generally cheaper and may have been affordable for Mr V had it been adequately 
investigated.
Mr V was accruing benefits in the British Steel defined contribution scheme, the value of 
which couldve been earmarked to provide death benefits to the family. In addition, Mr Vs 
wife, then aged 38, had been an active member of her employers defined contribution 
pension scheme and had been since 2007. Shed been with the same employer for over 10 
years and planned to fully retire at 68 when her state pension started. So I think its fair to 
say that she too had and would continue to accrue significant pension savings in her own 
right which couldve also been earmarked to provide death benefits to the family. I havent seen evidence Flying Colours adequately considered these factors as part of a 
holistic analysis on the level of death benefits required for the children. In any event, its my 
view that theres no real evidence that a death lump sum was required for the children.
Therefore, based on the above considerations, I disagree with Flying Colours view that the 
only way to achieve Mr Vs death benefits objective was by transferring to the SIPP at that 
point in time. Given Mr Vs circumstances, I consider that the BSPS2 and even the PPF, if 
required, would likely offer better death benefits to his beneficiaries compared to the SIPP. 
Security of pension benefits 
The evidence shows that due to the circumstances surrounding British Steel, Mr V was 
concerned about the security of his preserved benefits and the likelihood of these being 
transferred to the PPF. I acknowledge that there were serious concerns relating to the BSPS 
at the time. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as 
Mr V, combined with short timeframes to make potentially life changing decisions. But this 
only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice where a regulated advisory business 
was appointed.
Ive thought carefully about whether the advice provided to Mr V was a balanced appraisal of 
the options available to him. Mr V may have been concerned by developments relating to 
British Steel and the BSPS, but he was seeking an impartial, expert view from Flying Colours 
on his options. Any concerns Mr V had about the security of his benefits shouldve been 
managed by the professional party in the transaction, Flying Colours.
As Ive noted above, its my view that Mr Vs early retirement and death benefit objectives 
were likely achievable by opting to retain safeguarded benefits in BSPS2. 
Critical yield analysis 
In response to this complaint, Flying Colours made the point that the requirement for a TVAS 
has been replaced by the more meaningful Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis (APTA) 
rules  my interpretation of this is that Flying Colours is seeking to downplay the importance 
of the critical yield figures applicable to Mr Vs case. 
But the APTA rules didnt become effective until 1 October 2018, which was after Flying 
Colours had advised Mr V to transfer to the SIPP. Whilst undeniably useful in demonstrating 
the amount needed to replicate scheme benefits, since the APTA rules didnt apply at the 
time of the advice complained about, theyre of little relevance in deciding this complaint.
The TVAS rules applied at the time Flying Colours advised Mr V. This required it to conduct 
a transfer value analysis and to calculate the critical yield applicable for the proposed 
transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required, after charges, to 
match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the defined benefit scheme at the 
scheme normal retirement age (and at a different age if selected) on the assumption a 
lifetime annuity is secured at retirement. The critical yield is one of the many factors 
businesses should consider  in an overall assessment of suitability  in helping them to 
decide if a pension transfer is suitable for their client.
In Mr Vs case, the critical yield figures in the TVAS report were as follows:
Scheme At age 60 At age 65 At age 60 based on At age 65 based on based on 
full 
pensionbased on 
full 
pensionreduced pension and 
maximum tax-free 
cashreduced pension and 
maximum tax-free 
cash
BSPS 8.04% 7.1% Not calculated Not calculated 
PPF 6.95% 5.71% 6.44% 5.27%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 wasnt calculated. But it was known the BSPS2 could 
potentially pay a higher level of benefits compared to the PPF but lower than the BSPS so, 
as Ive said above, the critical yields for the BSPS2 at 60 and 65 likely fell somewhere 
between these figures.
In its suitability report, Flying Colours focused on the critical yields that applied at 65. It 
stated: 
the critical yield calculation does not hold a great deal of relevance as you have 
confirmed that you would like the ability to flexibly access an income from the 
pension fund in the future to supplement your retirement, whilst also wanting to 
create the ability to pass on the residual fund in the event of your death to ensure 
your family.as such the purchase of an annuity with this fund is unlikely to ever 
meet these stated requirements and therefore a critical yield calculation does not 
provide a like-for- like comparison of your expected requirements.
Flying Colours essentially dismissed the importance of critical yield figures because it was 
working on the basis that it wasnt relevant as Mr V was seeking to flexibly access his 
benefits. While I agree that the TVAS isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual 
circumstances and objectives, the critical yield figures generated do give an indication of the 
value offered by the defined benefit scheme and the ability to secure comparable benefits on 
the open market. As a predecessor to the APTA, they are nevertheless useful in that regard. 
TVAS has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the accumulated fund at 
retirement to provide steady, secure income during retirement such as a lifetime annuity.
As Ive noted above, Im not convinced, based on the evidence provided, Mr V had a 
genuine need to access his pension benefits flexibly with varying levels of income and lump 
sums during retirement. Mr Vs preserved BSPS benefits were the backbone of his 
retirement provision, amounting to nearly 22 years membership of a defined benefit 
scheme. Hed recently joined the British Steel defined contribution scheme but this didnt 
have the same guarantees attached to his preserved BSPS benefits  and it wasnt 
protected by the PPF.
 
Given the value of his preserved BSPS benefits relative to his overall financial situation, its 
my view Mr V would likely use these to provide a steady, secure income during retirement to 
meet his core income needs. So, its my view that the critical yield figures played more of a 
significant role than considered by Flying Colours.
Flying Colours shouldve been aware of the FCAs prescribed growth projection rates used 
at the time it advised Mr V  the lower, mid and upper rates were 2%, 5% and 8% 
respectively. Mr V had limited investment experience and was determined by Flying Colours 
as having a medium risk profile. The critical yield figures calculated in his case were at the 
upper end of the FCAs rates for a medium risk investor, implying that Mr V wouldve had to 
adopt a higher degree of risk with his SIPP investment than his medium risk profile suggests 
just to match the benefits he had given up, let alone exceed them. This is contrary to the 
requirements under COBS 19.1.7G.I acknowledge Mr V was 45 and had 23 years left to his state pension age, in which to 
accrue additional pension benefits, but the evidence simply doesnt support the position that 
he was able to expose his preserved benefits to the type of investment risk required to even 
just match the relinquished benefits.
Costs
Regarding costs, Flying Colours stated in the suitability report:
The proposed transfer will minimise the charges applicable in view of the low 
charges applied by Flying Colours and provide your pension fund with a large 
amount of investment diversification, thus helping to reduce investment risk and 
volatility.
The suitability report didnt mention that Mr V wouldnt incur an ongoing adviser or fund 
charges had he opted for BSPS2. So, it was an unbalanced portrayal of the position to say 
that a transfer to the SIPP would minimise the charges. 
I note that in late 2018, Mr V terminated his relationship with Flying Colours partly due to his 
dissatisfaction about the ongoing adviser charge. Flying Colours has made the point that 
when terminating his relationship, Mr V didnt raise his concerns about its advice to transfer 
out of the BSPS or that it didnt meet his objectives at that time. I think Flying Colours 
comments on this point are irrelevant because Mr V may not have been aware in late 2018 
that he had cause to complain. In any event, this complaint was made in October 2019, well 
within six years of the event complained of meaning this service can consider it under our 
rules.
What should Flying Colours have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Vs 
decision?
I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility of income outweighed the guaranteed 
benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Vs objectives couldve been met by a 
combination of the BSPS defined contribution scheme and BSPS2, as explained above. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Vs concerns about his preserved benefits 
and British Steel couldve been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important 
guaranteed benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of 
income flexibility which, in my view, he simply didnt need, and a future pension which would 
be dependent upon investment returns. 
Tax free cash, if needed, was available from his scheme benefits and growth over the short 
term would be achieved by way of regular revaluations. Death benefits were also payable 
from the BSPS2, albeit in a different format than those available from the SIPP.
The critical yields applicable to this case are a very telling indicator of the value of the 
benefits being relinquished. They were at the upper end of the FCAs rates for a medium risk 
investor which I think was unlikely to be achievable to even simply match the benefits 
available under the BSPS2. I dont think any potential lack of awareness of the detail of the 
BSPS2 and its features changes the outcome here. Even if there was the prospect of Mr Vs 
funds entering the PPF, my view is that, taking account of his circumstances, including his 
attitude to risk, his objectives and the guarantees which wouldve persisted, Flying Colours 
shouldve advised against the transfer. I think that had this happened Mr V wouldve, on 
balance, opted for the BSPS2.
ConclusionFor the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that Flying Colours recommendation to transfer to the SIPP wasnt 
clearly suitable for Mr V or in his best interests. The key contributing factors here relate to 
inadequate fact-finding, inadequate consideration of alternative options, the unbalanced and 
misrepresentative portrayal of the value of Mr Vs preserved benefits compared to the 
recommended SIPP and exposing Mr Vs significant retirement provision to more risk than 
we was likely willing and able to tolerate  all of which are a failure to adhere to                                 
COBS 2.1.1R, 9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, 19.1.6G, 19.1.7G and 19.1.8G.
What does Flying Colours need to do?
My aim to is put Mr V, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Flying Colours 
unsuitable advice. For the reasons explained, and in line with our investigators 
recommendation, Ive decided that Mr V wouldve opted for the BSPS2 if hed been given 
suitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Vs preserved benefits isnt possible. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Flying Colours Finance Ltd to put Mr V, as far 
as possible, into the position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. Flying Colours 
Finance Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation on the basis Mr V wouldve 
opted for the BSPS2 and in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by 
the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of the decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Vs acceptance of the decision.
Flying Colours Finance Ltd may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Vs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on     
Mr Vs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
to Mr Vs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr V as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate 
in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from 
the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr V within 90 days of the date 
Flying Colours Finance Ltd receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Flying Colours Finance Ltd to pay Mr V.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Flying Colours Finance Ltd to pay Mr V the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Flying 
Colours Finance Ltd to pay Mr V any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Flying Colours 
Finance Ltd to pay Mr V any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Flying Colours Finance Ltd pays Mr V the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr V.
If Mr V accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Flying Colours Finance Ltd. My 
recommendation is not binding on Flying Colours Finance Ltd. Further, its unlikely that Mr V 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr V may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Vs complaint about Flying Colours Finance Ltd and I require it to undertake the 
above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr V accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my final decision before 19 May 2021. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman