DRN-3899109
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, were unreasonable to reject a 
claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr W has been represented by his wife at times but because Mr W is the account holder Ill 
refer only to him in this decision. I mean no disrespect to Mrs W when doing so and I thank 
her for the submissions shes provided.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Mr W has explained that he first had issues with the car in November 2021, about two years 
and nine months after hed taken receipt of it. The relevant legislation explains that if the 
fault occurs after more than six months have elapsed the onus is on the consumer to 
demonstrate that the fault was present, or developing, when the car was supplied and that it 
was therefore not of satisfactory quality and thered been a breach of contract.
Im not persuaded that Mr W has been able to do that. I say that because Ive not seen 
evidence to suggest the ECU fault, or any other, was likely to have been present from the 
onset. The independent inspector didnt comment on that issue although he did note that the 
most recent repairs had been successful, and Mr W hasnt provided any additional evidence 
that would lead me to consider otherwise. 
The relevant legislation explains that when we consider if goods have been of satisfactory 
quality we should also consider whether they have been durable. Whilst it may be that the 
ECU has failed on this car quite quickly I note that Mr W had been able to drive the vehicle 
for more than 43,000 miles. Thats more than would be considered average use. The 
independent inspector didnt comment on whether the ECU had been durable, and on 
balance, I dont think I therefore have sufficient evidence to suggest the ECU, or the car, 
hasnt been durable.
Mr W has suggested that the dealership fitted donor parts to the car and should have fitted 
new parts. I understand that confusion, but I think the dealership had used parts from 
another car to swap out those on Mr Ws car when fault finding  in order to eliminate that 
component as the source of the fault. I dont think its likely the donor parts would have been 
retained on Mr Ws car; they would have been returned to the donor vehicle. That seems to 
have been confirmed by the independent inspector who noted that new parts had been fitted 
to the car.
The independent inspector did note that the ECU cover hadnt been replaced. I think its 
likely this cover hadnt been replaced by the garage who fixed Mr Ws car in March 2022 and 
I dont think its likely the cover was missing from the inception of the deal. Mr W will 
therefore need to contact the repairing garage in order to have the cover replaced but I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest that is Halifaxs responsibility as it doesnt relate to any 
breach of the contract.
Im not persuaded that Halifax were therefore unreasonable to reject Mr Ws section 75 claim 
and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman