DRN-1691882
 
The complaint 
Mr B and Ms P complain that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policies sold in 2002 and 2005, in connection with a mortgage 
that Mr B and Ms P arranged in 2000. The 2002 policy provided cover for Mr B and Ms P if 
they couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The 2005 policy 
provided the same sort of cover for Mr B.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr B and Ms P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Ms Ps case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable for Mr B and Ms Ps needs?
-           Did Lloyds give Mr B and Ms P the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policies?
If there was a problem with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr B and Ms P are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policies  if there hadnt been any problems with the sales?
I have decided not to uphold Mr B and Ms Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr B and Ms P say they were told they had to take the PPI to get the borrowing they wanted, 
and that Lloyds didnt give them a proper choice. Ive noted everything theyve said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr B and Ms P and 
Lloyds when the policies were sold. In addition, Lloyds hasnt been able to provide much documentation from when the policies were sold. Thats not surprising as the sales took 
place many years ago, and its similar to some other cases Ive seen.
But I can see that Mr B and Ms P had to complete application forms for the PPI that 
were separate to their loan applications. So on balance, I think they wouldve realised that 
the two products werent linked. 
In addition, the PPI was listed as 'Optional Insurance' on the loan offer for Mr B and Ms P's 
2005 borrowing. In connection with the PPI the loan offer said:
'You are not obliged to take his cover but should you wish to through C&G, the monthly cost 
for the term of your mortgage is shown opposite...'
So without anything else to support what Mr B and Ms P have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the PPI policies were optional.
Lloyds advised Mr B and Ms P to take out the policies and it doesnt look like they were 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the relevant times. I 
say this because:
Mr B and Ms P were eligible for the policies given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
Mr B  and Ms P say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they 
couldnt work because of sickness or accident. But the policies wouldve paid out in 
addition to those benefits and would do so, it seems for longer. Having the policies in 
place would've meant Mr B and Ms P could use their employer benefits to pay for 
other expenses. So I think Mr B and Ms P wouldve had some use for the policies 
despite their existing arrangements.
Mr B and Ms P werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover 
I think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policies 
exclusions and limitations.
I cant be sure that the cost of the 2002 policy was clearly communicated to Mr B and 
Ms P before they agreed to buy it. But Mr B and Ms P took out the policy knowing 
they would have to pay something for it. The cost for the 2005 policy was set out in 
the loan offer. So it seems Mr B and Ms P knew how much they would be paying for 
the policy and found it acceptable. Both policies were competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr B and Ms P would have made a 
different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B and Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr B and Ms P werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policies seem to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr B and Ms P would have made a different decision if better information had been provided 
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policies.
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman