DRN-4506161
The complaint
Ms C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) is holding her liable for payments which she 
didnt authorise. 
What happened
In April 2023, Ms C was selling an item via an online marketplace (D). She received an 
email, seemingly from D, notifying her they had found a buyer. It contained a link which 
appeared to take Ms C to Ds platform. She was told D needed to verify her banking 
information, in order for her to receive payment from the buyer. D said she would receive a 
push notification from her bank to do this. 
Ms C completed the notifications as directed, thinking she would receive a credit. Instead, 
two payments of £601 followed by one payment of £156 were taken. 
When Ms C raised the matter with Monzo, it paid her £100 compensation for the time it took 
to respond to her fraud claim. But it wouldnt refund her. It said she hadnt taken enough 
steps to check who she was paying and what for. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Ms C referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
ultimately recommended Monzo should refund the first and second payments  but not the 
third. They thought the payments should be treated as unauthorised  but that, by the third 
payment, Ms C ought to have foreseen the risk that the payment would be taken.
Monzo has appealed the investigators outcome so the case has been passed to me. In 
summary, it says the payments are considered authorised under the account terms as Ms C 
entered her PIN. They also say she was grossly negligent in entering the PIN for the second 
payment, as at point she should have realised the steps she was taking, allegedly to receive 
a refund, had previously caused money to be taken.
I note Monzo recently asked for further commentary from us, in order to review things again 
before deciding whether it requires a decision. But thats not how our process works. Monzo 
previously asked for a decision. And it is well past the deadline we gave it to submit any final 
comments or evidence. Under our powers, as it hasnt accepted the investigators view, Im 
now proceeding to issue my final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ive decided 
Monzo should refund the first two payments (with interest). But I dont think it needs to 
refund the third payment. Ill explain how Ive come to this conclusion.
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that Ms C is 
liable for payments she authorises but Monzo is liable for unauthorised payments taken from 
her account.
To consider these payments authorised, the PSRs explain that Ms C must have given her 
consent to the execution of the payment transactions  and that consent must have been in 
the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between her and Monzo.
My understanding is that, in order to make these payments, the following steps were 
completed: Ms Cs card details were entered into the merchants website; and then her PIN 
was entered in Monzos app. 
Monzo has suggested that Ms C authorised these payments as she entered her PIN in the 
app. I disagree. Im not persuaded this step alone is the same as completing the full form 
and procedure to consent to the execution of a payment. Ms C didnt enter her card details 
to request a payment; this was done by the scammer, having obtained Ms Cs card details 
under false pretences. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied these payments were unauthorised. Ms C didnt complete 
all the payment steps herself, nor did she give someone else permission to complete those 
steps on her behalf to take payments. The step she did undertake  entering the PIN  was 
done on the understanding it was necessary to verify her account with D in order to receive 
payments. 
Monzo argues that its still not liable for the second and third payments under the PSRs 
because it thinks Ms C failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
and keep her personalised security details safe.
While I agree that Ms C did, in effect, fail to keep her personalised security details safe, Im 
not persuaded she did so due to a failure of gross negligence. Initially, I can see why she 
didnt foresee the risk. In the context of having an item for sale, it didnt seem unexpected for 
her to receive an email from D about an interested seller. She has shown us someone had 
already messaged her on Ds platform to prime her to expect the email.
Ms C has provided screenshots of the chat she had with who she thought was D. It appears 
this was a reasonably sophisticated website impersonation. I think lots of people would have 
been tricked into thinking they were genuinely dealing with D. I accept Ms C didnt realise 
she was putting her details at risk; she thought the steps she was following were part of a 
genuine verification process by an established and trusted business. She hadnt sold 
anything on Ds platform before, so didnt know this was a deviation from their process. 
I understand Monzos point that, by the time of the second payment, it seems Ms C was 
aware that a payment had been taken. But looking at her chat with the scammer, when she 
mentioned this, they told her the next notification  for the same amount  would be to 
refund the payment that had been taken. In the context of thinking she was dealing with an 
established company, and being put somewhat under pressure by the worry of the payment 
that had been taken, I can understand why Ms C trusted and followed the scammers 
instructions. 
I agree with the investigator that the payment screen Ms C would have seen, in and of itself, 
could be read  in the context of what Ms C had been told by the scammer  as an indication 
she would be receiving, rather than making, a payment. In the wider context of what was 
happening, Im not persuaded it was grossly negligent for Ms C to trust the scammers 
explanation that the second notification was a refund of the payment that had been taken. It's important to note that the bar for gross negligence is a much higher bar than negligence. 
In practical terms, Id consider it fair to conclude Ms C was grossly negligent if she acted 
despite an actual appreciation of the risks involved, or serious disregard to an obvious risk. I 
dont think Ms C foresaw the risk the second notification would result in a further payment 
being taken. Nor do I think she showed serious disregard.
When she went on to complete the PIN in relation to the third payment, I do think Ms Cs 
actions amount to gross negligence. By that point she did, or ought to have, realised D had 
lied to her about the second notification being for a refund  as well as not making it clear a 
payment would be taken in the first place. I think she did, or should have, realised there was 
an obvious risk that completing the same steps for a third time, at the instruction of someone 
who had clearly misled her, would result in a further payment being taken. So I agree Monzo 
isnt obligated to refund this payment.
My understanding is the £100 compensation paid for Ms Cs distress and inconvenience isnt 
in dispute. So I dont think Monzo needs to pay further compensation for the non-financial 
impact on her. But, in line with what Ive explained above, I do think it should refund her for 
the first two payments, in line with its obligations under the PSRs. And that it should pay 
interest on top of this to compensate Ms C for the loss of use of the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Monzo Bank Ltd 
must refund Ms C for the first two disputed transactions (by my calculations, this comes to 
£1,202)  less any amounts already recovered or refunded. 
Monzo Bank Ltd should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Monzo Bank Ltd must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Ms C accepts my decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman