DRN-1600338
Complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs B took out a store card in 1995. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs B £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs B was off 
work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld because Mrs B told us she 
suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. As the policy had 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions our adjudicator thought that if this had 
been drawn to Mrs Bs attention then she wouldnt have taken the policy out.
AXA didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Although AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B (so they didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs B) they still had to provide Mrs B with clear 
information about the policy so that she could make an informed decision about whether or 
not to take the policy out. In particular, this included drawing Mrs Bs attention to the main 
exclusions and restrictions in the policy at the time of the sale so that she could consider 
whether or not she was affected by them.
Ive looked at the documents from the time of the sale and I cant see that at the time when 
Mrs B was asked to make a selection for PPI that these exclusions or restrictions were 
drawn to her attention. When she completed the form there was no reference to where she 
could find these exclusions. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the representative at 
the time of the sale would have been instructed to highlight these terms.Mrs B has told us that she suffered from a medical condition at the time of the sale and had 
suffered from it since 1990. She was on medication for it at the time of the sale and is now 
on increased medication for it. I have no reason to doubt what Mrs B has told us about her 
medical condition.
The policy wouldnt have paid out if Mrs B was off work sick because of this condition. AXA 
say that Mrs B did not need to take any time off work because of this condition and that she 
would have been able to make a claim for other illnesses so the policy would still have been 
of use to her. So they didnt uphold her complaint.
However, the policy documents that I have seen from around the time of the sale draw the 
restriction relating to pre-existing medical conditions fairly widely. So I think Mrs B couldve 
been caught by the terms even if she was off work sick because of a reason connected with 
her pre-existing condition. And in any event, even though Mrs B hasnt had to take time off 
work because of this condition, it doesnt mean that she would not have thought (at the time 
of the sale) that she may have needed to in the future. I think that knowing that she was 
suffering from this condition and that this condition was excluded under the policy would 
likely have affected her decision. I think that if Mrs Bs attention had been drawn to the 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions as it should have been then she 
wouldnt have taken the policy out. This is because it wouldnt have provided good value for 
money in her circumstances.
So I think Mrs B was mis-sold this PPI policy.
Fair compensation
AXA should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs B would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
 
        So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on          
      those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale      
    of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
 
       AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owes and what she would    
       have owed.
 
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs B wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
C. AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
  Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against AXA France IARD and require them to pay Mrs B the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman