DRN-4079218
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd didnt send his ISA transfer request
to the correct address.
Mr Ts complaint is brought to this service by his representative. But for ease of reference, Ill
refer solely to Mr T in this complaint.
What happened
Mr T instructed AEGON to transfer his ISA to another provider. AEGON obtained an ISA
transfer form from that other provider and sent the completed form to the address given by
the other provider on that form.
But the other provider later confirmed that the correct address to which to send the
completed ISA transfer form to was obtainable from an online database which is commonly
used by ISA providers as a resource for ISA transfer information. And because AEGON
didnt use the online database to obtain the correct sending address, the ISA transfer was
delayed. Mr T wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
AEGON responded to Mr Ts complaint and noted they didnt use the online database and
that their process was to send ISA transfer forms to the address given on those forms. Mr T
wasnt satisfied with AEGONs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that AEGON had confirmed
they were aware that discrepancies could exist between the address given on forms and that
maintained by the relevant company on the online database, and so felt that this complaint
should be upheld and that AEGON should pay compensation of £500 to Mr T for the upset 
and trouble hed incurred. AEGON didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our 
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 March 2023 as follows:
It must be noted immediately that this complaint is brought against AEGON. This 
means that it isnt within my remit here to consider the processes or policies of the 
company to whom the ISA transfer form was being sent to, but only to consider 
whether the actions of AEGON themselves should be considered as being fair or 
unfair.
This boils down to whether I feel its fair that AEGON should have sent the ISA 
transfer form to the address given on the form itself, rather than checking the online 
database. AEGON have said that that they dont have access to this online database. 
But the database is a free resource, and so I dont see any reason why AEGON 
shouldnt have access to it.
However, ultimately, theres no obligation for AEGON to use the online database. It 
isnt mandatory for them to do so. And it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that 
AEGON would send completed ISA transfer forms to the address given by other 
providers on those actual forms.
It isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business to change its policies or
processes, but only to comment on whether its felt that the application of those 
processes has led to a fair or unfair outcome within the specific circumstances of a 
complaint.
In this instance, AEGON obtained the correct ISA transfer form from the other 
provider which included a given address. And I dont feel that AEGON acted unfairly 
by then sending the completed ISA transfer form to that given address  in line with 
their policy and in line with how all other ISA transfer forms would be processed by 
them.
All of which means that I dont feel that AEGON have done anything wrong here by 
following the process that they have  which as explained above, Im satisfied was 
reasonable. And because Im also satisfied that AEGON followed this process in a 
timely manner having received Mr Ts ISA transfer instruction, it follows that my 
provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
AEGON to take any further action.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr T and AEGON the opportunity to respond 
before I moved to issue a final decision. AEGON confirmed they were happy to accept my 
provisional decision, whereas Mr T did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision whereby I do not uphold this complaint 
on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision. And I therefore confirm that my final 
decision is that I do not uphold this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman