DRN-4114204
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined their 
travel insurance claim. 
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which started on 
26 November 2021 and expired on 26 November 2022. Great Lakes is the underwriter on 
the policy. 
They booked a cruise and were due to depart in November 2022. The trip was unfortunately 
cancelled by the provider and Mr and Mrs M received a refund for this. However, they 
booked separate flights and the flight provider only refunded the airport duty tax element but 
not the remainder of the payment they made. 
Mr and Mrs M called Great Lakes to ask if they would be covered for the remaining cost of 
their cancelled flights. It informed them they would be covered. Based on the information 
Great Lakes provided, Mr and Mrs M decided to cancel their flights.
They submitted a claim to Great Lakes for the remaining cost of the flights. It declined the 
claim and said Mr and Mrs M have no cover for what happened under the cancellation 
section of their policy. Great Lakes also said it agreed that Mr and Mrs M were misinformed 
in their call with the insurer before they cancelled their flights. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it. She concluded that the claim was declined in line with the 
terms and conditions of their policy. She also recommended Great Lakes award £100 
compensation for the misinfrmation that it provided. 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators findings. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me. They say they would not have cancelled the flights had they been 
informed correctly that they werent covered for this under their policy. They think £100 
compensation for being given incorrect advice is unfair in the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy. Section 1 sets out 
the terms of cancellation and what is and isnt covered under their policy. On 
page 17 under What is not covered: under sections 1 and 2, it states there is no 
cover for failure by the provider of any part of the booked trip to supply the service 
or transport (whether as a result of the error, insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, 
omission, default or otherwise), unless the event is specifically covered by this 
policy. You should direct any claim in this case to the provider involved.
Based on this section, there is no cover for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ms flights 
under their policy. And there are no other sections of the policy that apply in the 
circumstances of what happened. I dont think therefore the claim has been declined 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M say Great Lakes informed them they would be covered 
for the cost of their flights being cancelled. They say they called Great Lakes at least 
three times and they were told they were covered. I can see they called Great Lakes 
once, but I havent seen evidence of them being given incorrect information three 
times. Thats not to say it didnt happen but that I havent seen evidence of it. I 
appreciate that its now disappointing to be told they dont actually have cover for 
what happened. 
I agree that information they were given was incorrect and Great Lakes has 
acknowledged this in its response to Mr and Mrs M. There was an error on 
Great Lakes part, and I think £100 compensation for this failing is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to be in a 
position to give a definite claims decision over the phone until it has seen all the 
relevant documentation. I can see that in its communication to Mr and Mrs M, 
Great Lakes had referred them to their card provider as this was how they made the 
payment for the flights and raise the issue with them. 
The terms and conditions are clear in what cover is and isnt available under their 
policy. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I cant reasonably ask Great Lakes 
to increase the compensation amount in the circumstances of what happened, and I 
think £100 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr and Mrs M accept our final decision, 
I direct Great Lakes to put things right as follows:
Pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation in recognition of the poor service it provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about Great Lakes 
Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman