DRN-2692738
The complaint
Mr A complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with PSA 
Finance UK Limited wasnt fit for purpose. He returned the car and says he is being chased 
for £6,000 which he doesnt think he should have to pay.
What happened
Mr A entered a HPA with PSA Finance in April 2018 to acquire a new car. He says that 
within a few months of acquisition the car started to experience issues with the USB ports, 
the back windows creaking and a weak battery. 
Mr A has explained that he completed a survey in June 2018 for the manufacturer and noted 
the issue with the windows and USB ports. He then received a six month courtesy call from 
the dealership, and he mentioned the survey he had completed and that he thought the 
battery was weak. He says he was told someone would be in touch, but this didnt happen. 
Mr A contacted the dealer again, but his car wasnt on its system and he was told the issue 
wouldnt be with the battery and instead it would be the telematics. 
Mr A says that the next available date for the engineer to deal with the telematics was 8 
March 2019. However, before this on 28 January 2019 the battery went flat, and he had to 
call a roadside recovery company. Mr A says the telematics was upgraded in March 2019, 
but the battery then went flat again on 17 March 2019. Mr A says that he felt PSA Finance 
wasnt interested in the issues he had experienced and gave him no option but to voluntarily 
surrender the car. He says he shouldnt have to pay for the outstanding balance given the 
issues he experienced. 
PSA Finance says that Mr A made his regular payments until November 2018 after which no 
further payments were made. It says Mr A raised a complaint about the issues with the car in 
March 2019 at which point it was explained to him that payment still needed to be made, 
however, Mr A was refusing this. Mr A then signed a voluntary surrender form although he 
noted on this he was taking the action due to the issues he had with the car. PSA Finance 
says the car was due to be inspected in April 2019, but Mr A didnt make the appointment 
and it was rearranged for May 2019. Issues were identified in the May inspection and repairs 
agreed however Mr A confirmed he still wished to go ahead with the voluntary surrender. 
PSA Finance says that due to the issues Mr A experienced it offered to reduce the 
outstanding balance on his account to £6,000 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She said there wasnt evidence that the 
issues with the car were raised with PSA Finance before March 2019 and that at that time 
PSA Finance arranged an inspection of the vehicle so this could be investigated which she 
thought reasonable. The inspection took place in May 2019 and she noted the issue with the 
back windows creaking. She didnt think this meant the car should be allowed to be rejected 
and instead thought a repair wouldve been reasonable. However, Mr A decided to voluntary 
surrender the car. She noted the comment Mr A had made about voluntarily surrendering the 
car because of the issues and delays in getting repairs but she thought that Mr A had been 
given reasonable opportunity to have repairs carried out and that when the fault was 
identified he said he wanted to go ahead with the voluntary surrender. At this time his 
account was in arrears and as Mr A wasnt making payments she thought voluntary 
surrender was a suitable option. She said that as Mr A had chosen to voluntarily surrender 
the car rather than have repairs PSA Finance wasnt unreasonable by holding him liable for 
the outstanding balance (as reduced) of £6,000.
Mr A didnt accept our investigator view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A acquired a car through a HPA with PSA Finance. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), PSA Finance can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. As Mr As car was new at acquisition, it is reasonable that he 
would have expected it to be free from faults including minor defects.
Mr A has explained that he experienced issues with the USB ports and the windows 
creaking and he contacted the dealer about these. When a fault is identified within 30 days 
of acquisition a consumer can have the right to reject the car under the short term right to 
reject. When faults are identified within the first six months, but after the first 30 days, it is 
usual that the faults are accepted to have been present at the point of supply unless contrary 
evidence is provided, and repair is often a suitable remedy.
Considering that Mr As car was new at acquisition and noting the issues with the USB ports 
and creaking windows I find it more likely than not that these issues were due to faults 
present or developing at the point of supply. I note the comments about the provision of the 
telematics, however the issue with the windows was confirmed in the inspection report and 
given when Mr A first raised this, I find it reasonable to say there were issues present at the 
outset meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
As well as the issue with the windows and USB port Mr A also complained about a weak 
battery. I have seen a copy of a roadside recovery report dated 26 January 2019 however 
there are limited details in this. Mr A has also provided a copy of another recovery report 
dated 17 March 2019 which recommends the battery is replaced. Having considered the 
nature of the issues Mr A experienced, I find that a reasonable remedy in this situation would 
have been repair. 
I understand that an upgrade to the telematics took place in March 2019 and this resolved 
some issues. However, the other issues remained at that time. As I have set out I think the 
reasonable response would have been for these to be repaired at no cost to Mr A and I do 
not think that the issues meant that rejection of the car should have happened. 
Mr A had stopped making his payments under the agreement and while he received a 
default letter dated January 2019, it wasnt until March 2019 that he raised a complaint with 
PSA Finance about the issues he had experienced. On 19 March 2019, Mr A discussed the 
issue with PSA Finance, and it explained his complaint was being investigated but that he 
still needed to make his payments. It explained that without payments being made his car 
was at risk of repossession. However, Mr A said he wouldnt make further payments.
As part of the investigation into Mr As complaint it was agreed the car would be inspected. 
This was initially due to happen in April 2019 but took place in May 2019. At this time, issues with the car were confirmed and repairs agreed however Mr A said he still wished to go 
ahead with the voluntary surrender. Given this, and that it had received Mr As signed 
voluntary surrender form, I do not find that I can say PSA Finance did anything wrong by 
proceeding with the voluntary surrender.
Mr As car was repaired and then collected and sold. There was an outstanding balance due 
on Mr As account of over £6,000. Given the issues Mr A had experienced with the car PSA 
Finance offered to reduce the balance to £6,000. I understand that Mr A doesnt think he 
should be required to pay this. However it was his choice to go ahead with the voluntary 
surrender. I appreciate the issues he had experienced, but he could have agreed to the 
repairs following the May inspection or looked at alternative options but instead he said he 
wished to continue with the voluntary surrender. The letter he had received about the 
voluntary surrender set out what would happen and while Mr A clearly wasnt expecting such 
a large balance to remain, I do not find I can say that PSA Finance did anything wrong in this 
process.
Overall, as Mr A was refusing to make any payments towards his agreement and made it 
clear he wished to voluntarily surrender the car I do not find I can say PSA Finance is 
required to waive the outstanding (reduced) balance on his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against PSA Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman