DRN-3172615
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limiteds offer of redress for her claim against 
it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was insufficient. 
  
What happened
Mrs G bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs G into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Shawbrook accepted there had been a misrepresentation and made an offer of settlement 
which was intended to, in effect, make the solar panels self-funding over the ten-year term of 
the loan.
Mrs G requested Shawbrooks calculations as she didnt think if fairly compensated her for 
the additional costs she incurred in refinancing using a new loan from another provider. 
Mrs Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that fair redress 
would be for the loan to be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit 
they would provide over a ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of 
the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
The additional costs incurred because of the refinancing loan should also be reimbursed, 
and £100 compensation paid for the trouble and upset caused. 
Shawbrook didnt respond so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because 
Shawbrook accepts that a misrepresentation took place. So, I think that Mrs G lost out and 
Shawbrook should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Gs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs G from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs G is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs G by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mrs Gs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs G in a position where 
the solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Since Mrs G has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay her the difference between what 
she paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
And because Mrs G has settled the loan by refinancing, she should (if she hasnt already 
done so) supply evidence of the refinance to Shawbrook and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs G paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs G receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs G paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs G receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs G first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman