DRN-2096718
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy at RAC Insurance Limiteds (the RAC) decision not to repatriate his car
under his European breakdown policy. Hes also unhappy with the general service received
by RAC.
Any reference to the RAC includes its agents. Although Mrs S has been dealing with this
complaint, as Mr S was the policy holder, Ill mainly refer to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr S was travelling to Portugal with his wife and pets in January 2019 when his car broke
down in France. He contacted the RAC to let them know about the breakdown.
Mr S has said that initially the car was recovered swiftly. Hes also said that the RACs
European agents tried to sort out a car for him and his wife and pets to travel back to the UK.
But none was available that could tow the trailer he had been towing before the breakdown.
Mr S was fortunate that a friend was able to drive to him from another part of France to help
him. At this point Mr S removed some - but not all - items from the car as he assumed that it
would be fixed and hed get it back.
An initial diagnostic was carried out at a garage in France but not a detailed breakdown of
the problem. On 14 January, the RAC emailed Mr S to say,
We may need to move your car to another garage to get a proper diagnostic as 
the current garage can only say that engine is seized; and they can not do more. In 
order to determine if car is eligible for repatriation, we will need to get an estimated 
repair cost from a garage...
During this period there was some communication between the RAC and Mr S about a hire
car but ultimately it wasnt needed. The broken-down car was then moved to a second
garage and a quote of initially €5000 was given. This then increased to approximately €8000
and then approximately €14,000 to repair the car.
On 16 January, the RAC told Mr S that repatriation wouldnt be an option because of the
value of his car and the cost of repairing it. They told Mr S that his options were to repair the
car in France and theyd cover for him to collect it once repaired, have the car scrapped in
France or arrange his own repatriation through RAC or independently. In that call, the RAC
pointed out that there was no financial compensation for Mr S for scrapping the car.
The policy terms the RAC relied on for this decision are set out below.
Section 6Covered
If we attend a breakdown in Europe under Section 3 and the car cannot be repaired 
before your planned return to the UK, we will arrange and pay for:
1. Recovery of the car to a single destination of your choice within the UK; and
2. Storage charges for the car whilst awaiting the car to be returned to the UK
It is our decision whether to get your broken down car home or have it repaired 
locally, unless you have comprehensive plus and repair costs exceed £500 in which 
case you can choose.
Not Covered
1. Any costs: a. if your car is beyond economical repair
This policy defined beyond economical repair as
where the total cost required to repair the car, including any taxes, is greater than 
the market value of the car. If the car has broken down in Europe, the total cost 
required to repair the car will be based on the estimate for repair provided by the 
service provider in the applicable country in Europe where the breakdown has 
occurred;
The valuation guide that the RAC relied on is one of the commonly used UK valuation
guides. However, Mr S disagreed with the RACs valuation as he feels that UK registered
cars are undervalued.
After it had been decided that the car was beyond economic repair, the RAC reimbursed Mr
S for the cost of him returning to the UK on 23 January. There were then some delays in Mr
S responding to RAC as he had a poor mobile phone signal and a number of messages
were sent to Mr S to find out what he wanted to do about the car which was still in storage in
a French garage.
On 29 January, Mr S stated that he wanted the car sent back to the UK as he didnt believe it
would cost so much to repair the problem. The RAC offered Mr S £600 towards going back
to collect the repaired car in France or pay for its scrapping. Later, the RAC paid out around
£850 to Mr S for onward travel expenses.
Mr S insisted on having a detailed report of the problems before making his decision as he
strongly suspected that the likely cause of the breakdown was a part fitted previously that
would still be under warranty. Mr S wanted the option to scrap the car in the UK or replace
the engine with a reconditioned one rather than lose the full value of the car.
On 2 February and again on 8 February, the RAC stated that the options again were to look
into scrapping the car or Mr S to make his own arrangements to repatriate the car. Mr S said
that three sources in the UK had told him the price quoted for repair was very high. The RAC
offered Mr S the opportunity to have the car moved to a third garage. If they provided a
repair quote lower than the cost of the value of the car, the car may have been eligible for
repatriation.
On 12 February, the RAC told Mr S that theyd only cover storage fees at the garage until
the end of that day and hed then be liable for them - costing €36 per day. But Mr S felt that
this was wrong as he had 70 days to decide based on the policy terms. The RAC said that
they dont cover any costs if a car is beyond economic repair.
At this point, Mr S raised a complaint with the RAC about how he felt hed been treated. The
key elements to the complaint were; the decision to not repatriate the car, not being told to
take all his possessions from the car, not being provided with onward travel and storage
costs as an overall result of misleading contract terms. The RAC responded and didnt
uphold the complaint. They said theyd acted fairly and in-line with the policy terms.
Then followed some more correspondence between Mr S and the RAC. On 21 February, Mr S told the RAC; Go head. Scrap the car. After some further 
correspondence, RAC apologised if the cost of repatriation wasnt communicated back 
clearly to Mr S and gave an approximate figure of £1,800 to Mr S on 22 February.
The RAC attempted to settle the storage costs with Mr S but he felt that he wasnt liable for
any of them as thered been a delay in scrapping the car. However, the RAC has since
agreed to cover the storage costs. The RAC also later arranged, as a gesture of goodwill, for
the items that had been left in Mr Ss car to be returned to him.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. He provided more detail, including that he hadnt
been made aware that his car had been scrapped and this left him uncertain as to what was
happening.
Our investigator sent Mr S with documentary evidence that the car had been scrapped and
partially upheld Mr Ss complaint. Although she found that the RAC had acted fairly and
reasonably regarding the decision to not repatriate the car, she felt that some of the service
Mr S received couldve been better. So she recommended that the RAC pay Mr S £70 for
trouble and upset caused.
Neither Mr S or the RAC accepted the investigators findings. Mr S felt that the car should
have been repatriated and that £70 didnt recognise the trouble and upset hes experienced.
The RAC felt that theyd done more than they needed to when dealing with Mr Ss claim and
didnt agree that an award for trouble and upset was warranted.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 July 2020 which set out my intended findings. I invited 
both parties to add any additional comments or evidence before I made my final decision. Mr 
S responded with some comments on my provisional decision. The RAC havent responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new points that would materially change my opinion have been raised by either party, 
I find no reason to deviate from my provisional findings. For ease, Ive included a copy of 
them below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also thought about the law, good
industry practice and the terms of this policy. So, although Mr S has made specific
references to legislation including the Consumer Rights Act 2015, they are only part of what
Ive considered. Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on
what I thinks more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, Ive to tell Mr S that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here.
So I dont currently uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
In this case, I need to decide if the decision taken by RAC to not repatriate Mr Ss car back
to the UK was made fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy terms. I also need to
consider how RAC have treated Mr S overall. So, for ease, Ive set out my findings under the
following headings:The decision not to repatriate the car; and
The service given to Mr S
Im not ignoring what Mr S has said about things like what the cause of the initial breakdown
mightve been but this isnt relevant in this matter  Ive considered whether the RAC made a
fair decision not to repatriate the car and the service given to Mr S throughout which doesnt
change depending on the cause of the breakdown.
There are some other points which Ill not be making a finding on:
The RAC have reimbursed Mr S for onward travel expenses so Ill not be making a
finding on how that part of the claim appears to have been settled. If Mr S remains
unhappy with this part of the complaint he needs to complain separately to the RAC
as I havent considered it as part of this complaint; and
Mr S has raised some points in his complaint form about the trailer he was towing at
the time and related costs incurred as result of the breakdown. But under the policy
schedule, Ive noted that Mr S wasnt covered for towing.
The decision to not repatriate the car
At the heart of this complaint is the decision the RAC made not to repatriate Mr Ss car from
France back to the UK.
The RAC has explained this was based on the cost of repair being greater than the market
value of the car. This is included under whats not covered in the policy terms, so it wasnt
unreasonable for the RAC to rely on this term when making their decision.
However, I also need to consider how the RAC reached the decision to not repatriate the
car.
The initial garage couldnt provide a detailed report about the breakdown but the second
garage were able to do this. Although Mr S doesnt believe the cost of repair with the second
garage to be reliable and has referred to sources in the UK, Ive not seen any evidence to
support what hes said. And I note the evidence from the second garage is based on an
inspection of the car at the time.
The policy terms state that .the total cost required to repair the car will be based on the
estimate for repair provided by the service provider in the applicable country in Europe
where the breakdown has occurred. So the RAC havent done anything wrong here by
relying on the quotes provided by the garages. Ive also noted that the RAC offered to have
the car moved to a third garage of Mr Ss choosing for a third opinion before Mr S made the
decision to scrap the car. But Mr S didnt take the RAC up on this option.
The market value of Mr Ss car was much less than the latest quote given for repair. As this
policy doesnt cover repatriation in such circumstances, RAC acted fairly and within the
policy terms when making this decision. Although Mr S has disagreed with the valuation of
his car, Ive not found any issue with the method used by the RAC as its an accepted
standard in the insurance industry when valuing cars.
Ive also considered Mr Ss point about the initial repair quote being close in value to his car
value when exchange rates were factored in. But this quote was disregarded as the report
that both parties wanted wasnt available from the first garage. So the subsequent quotes
were the ones relied on when making the decision to not repatriate the vehicle and I still
think that the decision to not repatriate the vehicle was made fairly and in line with the policyterms.
Ive also noted that the RAC offered Mr S several options before the finality of scrapping his
car. Although Mr S says there was a delay in the RAC providing an approximate quote for
self-repatriation for the car, Mr S was given this information before he made the decision to
scrap the car. Even so, this wasnt an option Mr S was entitled to under the policy terms and
so he was free to obtain quotes himself to bring his car back to the UK.
Ultimately, Mr S agreed to have the car scrapped after being given the option of arranging
repatriation either himself, through the RAC or having the car fixed (at his own cost) and the
RAC covering his costs of collecting it.
Mr S has very strong feelings about the RACs decision to not repatriate the car but I havent
seen anything thatd lead me to say that the RAC has acted unfairly, unreasonably or
outside the policy terms when making this decision.
Mr S has raised a specific point about a particular term in the policy:
It is our decision whether to get your broken-down car home or have it repaired locally,
unless you have comprehensive plus and repair costs exceed £500 in which case you can
choose.
Mr S had the comprehensive plus level of cover and says this term is misleading because
this isnt what he was allowed to do with his car. I understand what Mr S has said here, but
directly below this in the policy terms it states that no costs are covered if the car is beyond
economical repair and this was the situation here. This is also outlined in the policy schedule
that was sent to Mr S. So I cant fairly say that this term was misleading or has been
incorrectly applied.
The overall service offered
When deciding this part of my decision Ive had to consider what mustve been an extremely
stressful and difficult time for Mr S and his wife, alongside the actions taken by the RAC and
the distress and inconvenience Mr S may have suffered by them as a result. Ive kept in
mind that Mr S broke down in a foreign country on his way to a planned holiday and it cant
have been easy having to look after pets away from home.
But, at the same time, Ive considered the logistical challenges faced by the RAC and, in my
opinion, the reasonable efforts I think they made to make the whole situation as
straightforward as possible for Mr S. There certainly were some communication issues
caused by the RAC where they were dealing with a number of agents and businesses not
based in the UK. But there were also instances where the RAC tried to get in touch with Mr
S unsuccessfully because of phone signal issues he was having and long delays in him
responding.
Whilst not everything was perfect, the RAC took some positive steps above and beyond
what they were required to do  or I would have expected them to do, under this policy. For
example, the RAC werent liable for all the costs of storage under the terms of the policy
(which came to more than £1000) or any costs where the car was deemed beyond economic
repair, but theyve covered these costs anyway. So I wont be commenting further as this
isnt something Id have asked the RAC to do.
Whilst it may not have been made clear to Mr S that he shouldve taken all his possessions
with him from the car, Im pleased that RAC covered the cost of getting Mr S back the items
that were left in his car.I do feel that the RAC could have updated Mr S better to confirm when his car had been
scrapped so he could make the necessary declarations. But I also note that our investigator
has shared evidence of this with Mr S and Ive not seen that hes lost out because of this
delay.
However, taking everything into account, I dont direct the RAC to do anything further and I
also dont direct them to pay the £70 our investigator recommended for the trouble and upset
Mr S says they caused. As outlined above, things werent perfect and its only natural that
this was an extremely challenging situation for Mr S. But when Ive considered all the
positive steps already taken by the RAC alongside all thats happened and how theyve dealt
with things overall, I dont require them to do anything further.
I know that this isnt the answer that Mr S will have wanted, but in my opinion its the fairest
answer based on all the evidence.
Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont direct RAC Insurance 
Limiteds to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman