DRN-4197766
The complaint
The estate of Miss S is unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SEs (GL) decision to decline 
Miss Ss claim and unwind her policy.
Although this complaint has been brought by Miss Ss estate, there will be times that I need 
to refer to Miss S directly, given its related to actions she took personally.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out as part of my provisional findings. A copy can 
be provided upon request.
Initially, I explained GL should not have unwound the late Miss Ss policy. I wasnt 
persuaded that the late Miss S had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her medical 
history in an attempt to gain insurance cover. I was persuaded Miss S had carelessly 
answered the health screening questions, or, in other words, the misrepresentation wasnt 
intentional. And so, I said GL should reinstate her policy and reassess the claim in line with 
its terms. 
In doing so, GL still declined the late Miss Ss claim, saying it wouldnt have provided cover 
for pre-existing medical conditions. It highlighted that Miss S suffered with other health 
issues related to respiratory problems. And so, I needed to decide whether GLs position on 
the claim outcome was fair.  
In my last provisional decision, I decided I was not intending to uphold the late Miss Ss 
complaint. I explained that, on balance, I was persuaded the treatment Miss S received 
whilst on holiday was most likely attributed to her on-going and welldocumented respiratory 
problems. And that this wasnt covered by her policy because there was no cover provided 
for pre-existing medical conditions.  
Since my last provisional decision, both parties have provided responses. GL accepted 
those findings, but the estate of the late Miss S didnt. In summary, the estate said the late 
Miss S was suffering from an injury to her sacrum. It suggested this could have been a likely 
source of the sepsis infection, rather than her long-term breathing difficulties and historic 
chest infections. The estate also made other arguments about medication prescribed to the 
late Miss S and whether it was medically necessary, given these were repeated 
prescriptions issued by phone. And so, its now for me to make a final decision on whether 
GL has declined the late Miss Ss claim fairly.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think GL declined the late Miss Ss claim fairly. I know this is likely to come 
as a disappointment to the estate of the late Miss S but Im satisfied GL declined the claim 
fairly as the policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. Im also persuaded that, on 
balance, the late Miss S was suffering from medical conditions caused by her pre-existing 
illnesses and this isnt covered by the policy. Ill explain why.
GL explained its policy doesnt provide cover for pre-existing medical conditions that were 
undiagnosed. Im satisfied thats the case because its listed within the policy terms.  
We are unable to provide cover for any pre-existing medical condition(s) where you have an 
undiagnosed medical condition, or a condition where you are currently on a waiting list, 
undergoing treatment, or tests or, where you are awaiting the results of any tests. There are 
some instances we may be able to provide cover for pre-existing conditions if you are 
awaiting surgery
In further discussions, GL confirmed its position that it wouldnt have covered any pre-
existing conditions for the late Miss S because had it known her full medical history, she 
wouldve exceeded its appetite for the risk to insure her for any claims related to any of her 
pre-existing medical conditions.
The test in this case is whether GL declined the claim fairly, as defined in the insurance 
conduct of business sourcebook (ICOBS) which says insurers must not decline a claim 
unfairly. 
The reason I think GL has fulfilled its responsibility under this term is because its relied on 
the available medical evidence to make its decision to decline the late Miss Ss claim. The 
medical evidence is persuasive in that it shows the late Miss S was admitted to hospital 
having suffered with breathing difficulties. Sadly, Miss S had a history of repeated chest 
infections and was prescribed medications like anti-biotics and inhalers to help treat and 
manage her symptoms.
So, Im satisfied theres a link between Miss Ss admission to hospital and her pre-existing 
health issues. Whilst in hospital, the late Miss S was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) 
as she became more unwell. The late Miss S suffered with and was treated for multiple 
conditions whilst in the ICU, as Id previously explained, Im satisfied with GLs position and 
the conclusion it reached here. GL said Miss S suffered with sepsis and multiple organ 
failure which was likely caused by an infection in her lungs. 
Miss S had suffered with this previously, and so, on balance Im satisfied its interpreted the 
available medical evidence fairly. GL said that because Miss S had previously suffered with 
these respiratory problems, its regarded as a pre-existing condition  which isnt covered by 
the policy.
I wanted to acknowledge the arguments made by the estate of the late Miss S, in particular, 
the suggestion that Miss S could have contracted sepsis from a sacral injury she suffered. I 
understand the connection its made here, but for the purposes of my final decision, Im less 
persuaded by it because Ive not seen any persuasive medical evidence which would 
support that view. 
Im not saying its impossible  but that I find it less persuasive when compared to the other 
contemporaneous medical evidence. All of which shows the late Miss S suffered repeated 
respiratory problems, like chest infections, and that she was admitted to hospital and treated 
for the same type of problem. I think the connection made by GL that the late Miss Ss 
sepsis began as an infection in her lungs is a reasonable one. And without any persuasive 
medical evidence by a suitably qualified professional to challenge this, Im satisfied that GL 
has declined the late Miss Ss claim fairly and so theres nothing more for it to do on that 
element of this complaint.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
S to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman