DRN-2641513
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M travelled abroad in February 2020. He was due to fly back to the UK on 27 March 
2020. However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised 
against all but essential travel abroad as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr Ms airline 
cancelled his pre-booked return flight on 20 March 2020 and so Mr M got in touch with 
AXAs assistance team to ask for help. 
AXA initially looked into arranging an early return flight for Mr M on 22 March 2020, which 
meant that his trip would be cut short by five days. Mr M explained thered be some 
difficulties in getting to the airport, so AXA indicated it may be able to arrange taxi transport 
to the airport. Mr M said hed understood he would be taking that flight and so he said he 
cancelled his accommodation. However, no taxi was arranged and Mr M didnt return to the 
UK on 22 March 2020. Instead, AXA told Mr M that it would look into other flight options for 
him and would get back to him the next day 23 March 2020.
On 23 March 2020, the UK government advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK. 
AXA outlined further flight options to Mr M, who told it that hed extended his accommodation 
until the end of April and hed be looking to get a flight back at that point. The assistance 
team contacted Mr M again on 27 March 2020 to explain that as hed chosen to remain 
abroad, it wouldnt cover him for any additional accommodation expenses. And it told him 
that hed need to arrange an alternative flight at his expense and claim it back from AXA 
afterwards. 
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs response. He also made a claim for his accommodation 
costs, amongst other things. He said he had no money to pay for a new flight and had had to 
borrow money from family and friends. After ongoing correspondence over several months, 
Mr M told AXA first that his original airline would be able to fly him back to the UK in June 
2020. AXA told Mr M that if he could provide evidence that airspace had been closed up until 
June 2020, it would consider his claim for alternative accommodation. And in July 2020, it 
told him it would consider a claim for an emergency return flight if he provided a booking 
receipt. But Mr M didnt provide this evidence. Subsequently, he told AXA that his airline 
would fly him back to the UK for free on 2 October 2020, so he would be taking that flight. 
However, to date, it seems he remains abroad and hasnt flown back. AXA decided to turn 
down Mr Ms claim. So he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She explained that as AXA 
had originally intended to return Mr M back to the UK ahead of his planned date of return, it 
wouldve covered the cost of an earlier flight. But as Mr M had chosen to remain abroad after 
his original return date, the policy no longer provided him with any cover. She also noted that 
while flights to the UK had been limited, there had been opportunities for Mr M to return to 
the UK since his original flight was cancelled. She accepted that AXA had led Mr M to 
believe it would be making taxi arrangements for him. But she also felt itd taken clear steps 
to try and make further arrangements for Mr M, which he hadnt taken up. Instead, hed 
chosen to remain abroad.
Mr M disagreed. Ive summarised his response. After AXA told him itd arranged a return 
flight for him on 22 March, hed quit his accommodation early. Hed then been left in the dark 
as to what was happening and had had to plead with his accommodation provider to extend 
his stay. Given the attitude towards British citizens, hed had to accept a four-week 
reservation. If AXA had done what it shouldve done, then he wouldve returned home early. 
AXA had discussed alternative flights with him, but he was told these considerably more 
expensive flights would be at his own cost. He couldnt afford to pay for the tickets. Itd taken 
AXA several months to ultimately turn down his claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I dont think AXA has done anything 
wrong which it needs to put right. Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the background to this complaint and I havent mentioned each 
and every interaction between AXA and Mr M, Id like to reassure him that Ive carefully 
considered everything both parties have said and sent us. In making my decision though, 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst 
other things, the terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether 
AXA handled his claim fairly.
Theres no dispute that Mr M was originally due to return to the UK on 27 March 2020 and 
that his airline cancelled his flight because of Covid-19. I appreciate this mustve been very 
worrying for Mr M. Hed added a Travel Disruption Extension to his policy shortly before he 
travelled, which provided extra cover in certain, defined situations. So Ive first considered 
the terms of Mr Ms policy, as this formed the basis of his contract with AXA. The policy 
says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of any unused travel, accommodation and other pre-paid charges that you cannot claim back 
from any other source together with any reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 
for taxis and hire cars) and accommodation costs which are of a similar standard to that of 
your pre-booked travel and accommodation (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed 
and breakfast, self- catering or room only) if you have to:
-curtail your trip with prior authorisation of the Emergency Medical Assistance Service 
as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or 
other regulatory authority in the country you are in recommending evacuation from 
the country or specific area you have travelled to providing the advice came into 
force after you left your home area to commence the trip.
AXAs also defined what it means by curtailment. The policy definition says: you 
abandoning or cutting short the trip after you leave your home by direct early return to your 
home, in which case claims will be calculated from the day you returned to your home and 
based on the number of complete days of your trip you have not used.When Mr M first called AXAs assistance team to look into options for returning home, AXA 
planned for Mr M to return to the UK earlier than his pre-booked return flight. This meant his 
trip wouldve been curtailed. The curtailment cover provided by the Travel Disruption 
Extension meant that, had Mr M returned to the UK early, AXA wouldve paid for his 
additional travel costs (in this case, a taxi and an early return flight) and any unused 
accommodation costs. That was why AXA said it would cover the cost of the initial flight it 
was seeking to arrange for Mr M on 22 March 2020.
AXA accepts that it didnt communicate as well with Mr M about this flight and the taxi it had 
been looking into arranging. Mr M says that if a taxi had been arranged, hed have flown 
back to the UK as planned. Ive thought about this. Looking at AXAs notes of its contact with 
Mr M during this period, it seems that on 22 March 2020, it told Mr M that it would look into 
new flight options to return him to the UK and that itd update him on the following day.
I can see from AXAs records that it found two new return flight options for Mr M which 
wouldve left the country he was staying in - one on 24 March and one on 25 March 2020. 
Given both of these flights were still prior to Mr Ms intended return date, I think AXA 
wouldve agreed to cover the cost of these flights under the extended curtailment cover had 
Mr M chosen to use them.
However, it seems that when Mr M spoke to AXA as planned on 23 March 2020, he told it 
that the airport was closing and that based on that information, hed extended his stay at his 
accommodation and planned to return towards the end of April. AXA let Mr M know that 
there were restricted flights, but it didnt look like the airport was closed. Ive thought carefully 
about what Mr Ms told us. Hes said he extended his stay because hed already quit his 
accommodation and had to agree to a four-week stay in order to rebook. But based on what 
it appears he told AXA at the time, it seems more likely that Mr M chose to extend his stay 
based on the fact he considered thered be no flights. And I also have to bear in mind that he 
decided to extend his stay despite being aware that AXA were actively looking into flight 
options to return him to the UK. On this basis, I dont think I can fairly say that AXA should 
pay Mr Ms claim due to the miscommunications around the first flight.
Once Mr M decided to extend his stay past his original return date, his trip could no longer 
be curtailed. This meant that there was no longer any cover available under the Travel 
Disruption Extension section of the policy for his particular circumstances. I say that because 
while in some circumstances, cover is provided for moving to new accommodation as a 
result of an outbreak of an infectious disease, that isnt what happened here. Mr M extended 
his stay in the same accommodation he was already booked in.
After travel disruption cover had ended, AXA was no longer responsible for paying for Mr M 
to return to the UK. Thats why it told him that hed need to pay for his own return flight going 
forwards. This decision seems reasonable, given the extent of policy cover. And while Mr M 
says he wasnt told that AXA wouldnt cover his accommodation expenses until August 
2020, Ive seen a copy of an email to the address we hold on file dated 27 March 2020, 
which confirmed AXA wouldnt meet these expenses. So I think Mr M ought to have been on 
notice that while he continued to stay abroad, hed be responsible for his own 
accommodation costs.
I can see from AXA notes that it did stay in contact with Mr M for several months. It urged Mr 
M to return home in line with FCO guidance. It did offer to consider an additional 
accommodation claim in June 2020, if Mr M could provide evidence that airspace was closed 
between March 2020 and that date. And it said in July 2020, that it would consider an 
emergency flight claim if Mr M provided a booking invoice. I havent seen any evidence that 
he provided such information though and AXA understood that flights were departing during 
this period. From my own research, Ive seen that incoming flights were very restricted. But I didnt find enough evidence to suggest that flights werent departing from the country Mr M 
was in. In the absence of such evidence and given Mr M has told us he remained abroad 
and wanted to take a free flight in October 2020, I think AXAs ultimate decision not to pay 
any of Mr Ms claim was a fair one based on the information it has.
It appears Mr Ms been left considerably out of pocket and I do have a great deal of 
sympathy with his situation, as he says hes had to rely on loans to pay for his 
accommodation. But I do think AXA took reasonable steps to arrange Mr Ms curtailment and 
I think its offers in June and July 2020 to reconsider the claim based on him providing 
evidence in support of his claim were fair. So Im not telling AXA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman