DRN-2508428
The complaint
Miss D complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited didnt identify transactions she 
hadnt made and about how it handled the situation after she reported these
What happened
Miss D noticed that four transactions had been made from her account with John Lewis that 
she didnt recognise. She contacted John Lewis in December 2019 and reported these. Miss 
D was told that the transactions here would be refunded and a new card ordered for her 
account. She received the refund of the disputed transactions a few days later, but when she 
received the replacement card, a PIN wasnt sent with it, meaning she couldnt use it. At the 
same time, another refund that Miss D was expecting for genuine reasons was held up 
because of this situation.
Miss D complained to John Lewis  saying that she was unhappy with the customer service 
she received when she reported the transactions. She was told inconsistent and unhelpful 
things about John Lewis processes and had to contact it on a number of occasions to 
resolve the matter. Miss D also felt that John Lewis should have identified these transactions 
and stopped them  by not doing so, she felt like she couldnt rely on John Lewis to protect 
her from this happening again.
John Lewis responded to say that while it has security measures in place to protect 
accounts, sometimes transactions may not be detected in this way. But it confirmed that the 
transactions had now been refunded to Miss D and that it had applied 1,500 loyalty points to 
her John Lewis card. 
Miss D wasnt happy with this, in particular with a mistaken mention of another country in the 
response she received. John Lewis then apologised for this and acknowledged that the PIN 
hadnt been sent when the card was replaced. John Lewis paid Miss D £50 to compensate 
her for the shortcomings in its service. There was then a further letter confirming the 
outstanding refund that had been held up by the situation with the card.
Miss D remained unhappy with John Lewis responses and brought her complaint to this 
service, where one of our investigators looked into it. They thought John Lewis had done 
enough to put things right here. They said that it wasnt this services role to comment on 
why the fraud wasnt detected, but to look at what John Lewis did once the transactions were 
reported. Having done so, they thought John Lewis dealt with the matter promptly.
In terms of the problems with the PIN  the investigator said that Miss D didnt need to 
change the PIN because a card wasnt used to make the disputed transactions. So sending 
a replacement card was enough. John Lewis advised Miss D that she could change her PIN 
at a cash machine and while she didnt want to do that, the investigator felt this was a 
reasonable suggestion.
The investigator did think that the delay with the genuine refund would have been frustrating 
but didnt think the impact was significant. Then in terms of the customer service, the 
investigator acknowledged there were some shortcomings with the communication here, but 
felt that what John Lewis had done to put things right was fair in the circumstances.
Miss D disagreed. She still felt that John Lewis should share a responsibility with her as a 
customer to identify and prevent transactions like these  especially where there were a 
number of transactions being made. Miss D said that had she not have reported them, then 
John Lewis would likely have not taken any action. Given the inconsistent and confusing 
communication around the PIN and the delayed genuine refund she was expecting  what 
John Lewis had done didnt go far enough to compensate her for the impact this had.
The complaint has now been passed to me to reach a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ds main issue here is that John Lewis didnt flag or prevent the transactions from 
happening. I can understand that, after all a customer would expect their bank or card 
provider to take steps to protect them. John Lewis has explained that it does have measures 
like this in place  but that, from time to time, transactions will slip through. Thats true of 
most systems that are put in place like this. There are so many variables in how payments 
are made, to who and for what, that any system can only do so much to capture those that a 
customer might not have made.
But I dont think this means that John Lewis systems failed here necessarily, or that it could, 
or should have stopped these transactions or flagged them. They do look slightly unusual in 
the context of Miss Ds account  but John Lewis would only have ever had limited 
information about these transactions and what information it did have meant that the 
payments werent flagged by its systems.
So having read John Lewis explanation as to why these payments were allowed to go 
through here  I think its a reasonable one in the circumstances, even if I realise Miss D will 
disagree.
In any event, when Miss D told John Lewis about the transactions, it was then under a duty 
to look into this matter for her and deal with this as quickly as it could. Im satisfied it did that 
here  it refunded the disputed transactions here in a matter of days and so, once John 
Lewis was aware that Miss D hadnt made these transactions, Im satisfied it acted fairly.
Then in terms of the PIN  I can see why Miss D wouldve been concerned about the safety 
of her account here and wanted to have taken steps to make sure her information was as 
secure as it could be here. In a call - John Lewis explained that the transactions here were 
only made using the card details themselves  rather than the PIN. 
Changing the PIN was discussed as something that is sometimes given as an option, rather 
than something that necessarily needed to happen in the circumstances here. John Lewis 
also explained that Miss D could change her PIN at a cash machine and while that may have 
been inconvenient for Miss D  it was ultimately her choice to change her PIN rather than 
something that had to happen here  and I think John Lewis gave her helpful suggestions to 
do so.
Then in terms of the overall service John Lewis has given  I think there have been times 
when it has given confusing information  such as the mention of another country in its initial 
response. And the problems with the genuine refund will have been frustrating and 
inconvenient too. But, I think the compensation John Lewis has paid to put things right is fair here  even if it doesnt go as far as Miss D wants. So, while I realise this will be a 
disappointment  I wont be telling John Lewis it needs to do any more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman