DRN-3949185
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly removed cover for his boiler 
and hot water cylinder from his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a home emergency policy with Aviva. This provided cover for: his boiler and 
heating system; plumbing; drainage; electrics; pests, and security. Aviva sent an engineer to 
inspect Mr Ss boiler and carry out a boiler health check shortly after the policy was taken 
out.      
The engineer identified Mr S had solar panels that heat his hot water cylinder. The eligibility 
criteria for the policy states the property must not be heated by solar power. The policy terms 
also exclude power generation systems, including solar panels. 
During the health check Avivas engineer identified a pressure sensor for Mr Ss boiler was 
locked, which he replaced. 
Aviva subsequently advised Mr S that following its engineers visit, it wasnt able to provide 
cover for his boiler or hot water cylinder. It says the solar panels Mr S has in place on his 
roof, turn the hot water cylinder into a thermal store. So, it has suspended these elements 
from his cover and adjusted the premium accordingly. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He says the solar panels dont provide heating to his house, 
only hot water. He says the pressure sensor issue has been resolved, so this cant be a 
reason why the health check failed. Mr S accepts that the solar panels arent covered, but he 
says his boiler and controls are separate from this. He doesnt think cover should be refused 
for his boiler. 
Aviva didnt change its position, so Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Aviva provided a clear explanation why 
cover couldnt be provided for Mr Ss boiler or hot water cylinder. He thought this was in line 
with its policy terms. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read the policy terms and conditions to understand what cover is available. Under the 
section on eligibility, the terms say:
The boiler(s) at your property must have a total power input of less than 70 KW and gas 
supply pipes must be 35mm or less in diameter. The boiler(s) must be fuelled by natural gas 
(and not LPG, oil or solid fuel). The property must not be heated by one of the following:
e) solar/thermal power.
Mr S says the solar panels dont heat his home. But its clear they do heat hot water. Avivas 
engineer says the panels heat water that is stored in the hot water cylinder. This means the 
solar panels turn the cylinder into a thermal store, which is excluded under the policy terms. 
The hot water cylinder is part of the system as a whole. My understanding is that its for this 
reason that Aviva withdrew the cover it did. 
Ive also considered the General Exclusions section of the policy terms. This says:
The following are also excluded from cover and therefore the Underwriter will not be liable 
for any of the following:
q) the following are not covered:
viii. power generation systems and their associated pipework, pumps, panels and controls 
including: solar panels and/or wind turbines; combined heat and power systems (systems 
that generate electricity and heat at the same time).
I think these terms are clear. Solar panels that generate heat, are excluded from cover. The 
panels Mr S has on his roof, heat hot water which is stored in his hot water cylinder. I think 
this reasonably means that Mr Ss heating system falls within this exclusion clause. And this 
means cover wouldnt be provided by Aviva. 
I acknowledge Mr Ss view that the boiler and solar panels are separate systems. However, 
Avivas engineer inspected the boiler as part of the health check and determined the two 
were linked. I think its reasonable for Aviva to rely on the expert opinion of its engineer in 
this matter. I think its been shown the systems are linked, and that the policy terms exclude 
cover for the boiler and thermal store (hot water cylinder) in these circumstances. 
Im sorry Mr S is disappointed that Aviva wont provide cover for his boiler. But I dont think it 
treated him unfairly, when it relied on its policy terms to exclude parts of the cover provided 
under its policy. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman