DRN-2405266
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc unreasonably refused to allow them to 
extend the term of their interest only mortgage. They want HSBC to compensate them for 
their stress and inconvenience, and for the fact they have had to re-mortgage with a different 
lender at a higher interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had an interest only mortgage with HSBC that was due to expire in December 
2018. They wanted to extend the term of their mortgage with HSBC. But HSBC would only 
agree to do so on a repayment basis. So Mr and Mrs K redeemed the mortgage and re-
mortgaged with another lender.
Mr K complained to HSBC. He said, in summary:
Hed first approached HSBC in January 2018. And hed been told that he would be 
able to extend the mortgage until he and his wife reached the age of 80. He was also 
told hed be able to re-mortgage on either an interest only or capital repayment basis;
When hed tried to re-mortgage hed experienced considerable problems. None of 
the mortgage advisers seemed to have any experience of dealing with re-mortgage 
of someone in their circumstances, and each time he dealt with a different adviser he 
was required to produce different or additional documentation. Each time it appeared 
that the adviser thought different rules applied either because of their ages or 
because he and his wife held a small buy to let portfolio;
It became clear that the bank was unhappy to offer an interest only mortgage and 
ultimately it refused to do so. By that time they had expended a considerable amount 
of time and money. In particular, theyd been told that they needed to get a valuation 
of the buy to let property that had been used as a repayment strategy for their 
existing mortgage.
HSBC responded to their complaint. It said, in summary;
It might ask for further documentation at any stage of the application process, to 
allow it to make an informed lending decision. But it apologised for duplicate and 
conflicting requests;
Mr K had expressed concern about HSBCs ability to deal with an application that 
takes customers to their 80th birthday and who have a buy to let portfolio. It 
apologised if these aspects of its lending criteria were not fully explained;
Its underwriting team reviewed the information that they had provided and made the 
decision that they could not proceed with an interest only application due to the 
repayment vehicle. It could however proceed on a capital repayment basis. It 
understood their frustration and disappointment with this decision, especially given 
the time they had invested in providing documents and meeting colleagues;
Mr K had also explained that they had been asked to provide a valuation for the 
property they wanted to use as a repayment vehicle. It was unable to find the 
request but apologised for the inconvenience and cost incurred;
As a result of their experience, it had credited £700 compensation to their account to 
say sorry.
Mr K wasnt happy with HSBCs response. And HSBC offered Mr and Mrs K a further £200 
compensation. But as they were still not satisfied they brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that HSBC had dealt with Mr and Mrs Ks complaint fairly. She said in 
particular that it was for HSBC to decide who it will lend to, and on what basis. And she said 
that if HSBC decided that it was not comfortable with the lending proposition it had the right 
to decline the application providing that the application had been considered fairly and 
reasonably in line with its policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage with HSBC ended in December 2018. Under the 
provisions of the mortgage offer, HSBC was entitled to receive its money back at that time.
When Mr and Mrs K took out the mortgage their repayment strategy had been to sell one of 
their buy-to-let properties in order to repay the mortgage. However, they subsequently 
decided that they would prefer to extend the mortgage term and sell the buy-to-let property 
at a later date.
There are certain rules that a lender has to adhere to when considering an application to 
extend an interest only mortgage. These rules allow the lender to set aside the assessment 
of an acceptable repayment vehicle in certain circumstances.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that HSBC gave reasonable consideration to 
Mr and Mrs Ks application to extend the term of the mortgage, but ultimately decided to 
decline the application due to concerns about the repayment vehicle. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs K arent happy with HSBCs reasons for its decision. But, having considered all 
the evidence, Im not persuaded that HSBC acted unfairly. In reaching this decision Ive 
taken account of the fact that Mr and Mrs K did have adequate means to repay the mortgage 
when it was due but preferred to delay to maximise their own income. And I also consider 
that HSBC acted fairly in offering them the alternative of switching the mortgage to a 
repayment mortgage. So it is not the case that HSBC simply declined the application due to 
their age.
HSBC has agreed that the service Mr and Mrs K received in relation to their application was 
not up to the standard expected. It has apologised, and it has paid a total of £700 into their 
account. Of this £700, it has explained that £400 was to compensate them for the valuation 
they were asked to obtain, and £300 was for their trouble and upset. In addition, HSBC has 
subsequently offered them an additional £200 for their trouble and upset.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K feel that £500 is not sufficient to compensate them for their 
wasted time and effort in relation to the mortgage application. But, although Ive carefully 
considered what they have to say, I dont agree. Im persuaded that £500 compensation is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So I dont require HSBC to do 
anything further.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr and Mrs K to decide whether 
they wish to accept the additional £200 compensation that HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered to 
them (if they have not already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman