DRN-3302708
The complaint
Mr F complains about the notice of sums in arrears that he received from Lex Autolease 
Limited in November 2021.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr F under a hire agreement with Lex Autolease that he 
electronically signed in August 2020. Lex Autolease didnt collect the initial rental of £908.06 
and the first four monthly rentals of £302.69 each due to an administrative issue so Mr F 
owed it £2,118.82. It was agreed in February 2021 that Mr F would pay that amount by an 
additional payment of £176.56 each month for eleven months and then a payment of 
£176.66. 
Lex Autolease recorded adverse information on Mr Fs credit file about his payments so he 
complained to it in June 2021. It apologised that the situation had occurred, agreed to 
remove that information from his credit file and paid him £100 compensation.
Mr F received a notice of sums in arrears from Lex Autolease in November 2021 which said 
that there was a shortfall in his required payments of £645.91. He complained to Lex 
Autolease about that notice but it said that it was confirmed to Mr F when the payment plan 
was set up in February 2021 that automated arrears letters might still be generated from the 
system and to ignore them if he was adhering to the payment plan. Mr F wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Lex 
Autolease had made Mr F aware that he might receive letters in an e-mail when he set up 
the payment plan in February 2021 so he didnt consider that it was wrong to send the 
notice.
Mr F has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that:
it was Lex Autoleases fault that it didnt start payments when he got the car and it 
was only after he chased it that it was addressed in February 2021;
he agreed to spread the payments over twelve months to help with cash flow and 
wasnt advised that this was set up by some kind of collections team and he would 
have pushed back about it as its its fault, not his, and he wasnt in any financial 
difficulty;
the filing of a late payment on his credit file has been addressed but shows their lack 
of competence;
he wasnt advised that the arrears notice would be sent to him  but he wasnt in 
arrears and it has caused him (and his wife) stress and anxiety;
he has to maintain a strong credit file because of his work and all of this is causing 
him concern and he has no confidence in Lex Autolease and doesnt see why he 
should pay it £300 each month for its poor service; and
he feels that he should be compensated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
I consider it to be clear that Lex Autolease failed to collect the initial rental and four 
monthly rentals that were due from Mr F under the hire agreement;
he says that he contacted it about those payments and its account notes show that 
he asked it  to see if there is anything that we can do to spread the cost;
Lex Autolease has provided a copy of an e-mail that was sent to Mr F in February 
2021 in which it set out the agreed payment plan for him to pay it £2,118.82 by an 
additional payment of £176.56 each month for eleven months and then a payment of 
£176.66  and the e-mail said: You may continue to receive automated letters 
advising you of the arrears on your account. As long as you are adhering to the 
arrangement detailed below, you can disregard these letters;
Mr Fs account was in arrears because the initial rental and four monthly payments 
hadnt been made and a payment plan had been set up to spread those payments 
over twelve months  that clearly wasnt Mr Fs fault but hed agreed to the payment 
plan;
Lex Autolease recorded adverse information on his credit file so he complained to it 
in June 2021 and it agreed to remove the adverse information and to pay him £100 
compensation;
it sent him the notice of sums in arrears in November 2021 which said there was a 
shortfall in his required payments of £645.91  it has provided a statement for Mr Fs 
account which shows that the outstanding balance on his account was £645.91 at 
that time;
Mr F has described the stress and anxiety that the notice caused to him and his wife 
and I sympathise with him for that and the issues that hes been caused by Lex 
Autoleases administrative failing;
Lex Autolease says that it told Mr F in December 2021 that he could disregard the 
notices if he was adhering to the agreed payment plan;
Mr F had agreed to the payment plan and Lex Autolease has said that he may 
continue to receive arrears notices but he could disregard them if he was adhering to 
the payment plan, it removed the adverse information that it had recorded on his 
credit file and paid him £100 compensation in June 2021; and
although I can understand the frustration and annoyance that Mr F clearly feels about 
this situation which has been caused by Lex Autoleases failings, I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay any further compensation to Mr F or 
to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.  
Jarrod HastingsOmbudsman