DRN-4149655
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the quality of a car he acquired, using finance from Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc.
What happened
Mr M took out a finance agreement with Santander for a used luxury car. But the following 
month, he contacted Santander to complain. He explained there was flaking paint, and once 
hed put a shortened number plate on the car, he could see a different paint colour 
underneath. He also said there was a problem with the stop/start button  and that the car 
seemed to have been remapped.
An independent inspection was carried out. No faults were found with the stop/start button. 
However, it confirmed the issue with the paintwork under the rear number plate, and that the 
car had been remapped to increase its horsepower.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it required legal registration plates to be 
placed on the car, which would cover the paintwork issue. It didnt comment on the 
remapping.
Mr M then brought his complaint to our service, and one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. He noted that the car was second hand. So, it would be reasonable to expect 
that parts of the car might have already suffered wear and tear. 
However, he considered the issue with the paintwork to be a defect, such that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As regards Santanders point about a legal 
number plate, he hadnt seen any evidence that Mr Ms number plate was illegal. But in any 
event, he didnt think Mr M should be expected to cover up a fault.
It's not in dispute that the cars been remapped. Mr M explained hes concerned this may 
affect the cars ongoing reliability, and it may cost more to service. Our investigator didnt 
feel there was evidence of that these things would happen, so there was no evidence of any 
detriment to Mr M.
Our investigator also said that Mr M had sent in evidence of some flaking paint on the alloy 
wheels, and that the front bonnet may be misaligned. But he wasnt able to determine when 
this may have happened. He also noted that these issues would have been visible at the 
point of sale. Accordingly, he didnt think Santander needed to do anything about these 
issues.
Overall, our investigator thought a reasonable resolution would be for Santander to arrange 
and pay for the paint around the number plate to be put right.
Santander agreed. Mr M responded to say hed also like the front bonnet to be aligned, and 
the alloys repaired to a standard expected of such an expensive car.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator  and for the same reasons he gave. I know 
this will be disappointing for Mr M, but Ill explain why.
Santander has agreed to meet the cost of the paintwork around the registration plate, so I 
wont comment further on this. Im satisfied its a fair resolution, as its clearly a defect that 
Mr M couldnt reasonably have been aware of at the point of supply.
However, Im satisfied that the potential misalignment, and the paintwork on the alloys, 
would in likelihood have been visible at the point of supply. Also, its unclear when these 
issues happened. I know Mr M has paid a lot for the car, so he feels disappointed. But its 
still the case that its a used car, and that there will likely be wear and tear/maintenance 
issues. For all of these reasons, Im not requiring Santander to put these right.
Finally, Ive thought about the remapping. And Ive not seen evidence that theres been any 
detriment to Mr M, or that theres likely to be in the future. So, I cannot comment further on 
this. If Mr M suffers detriment in the future, he may be able to bring a new complaint to our 
service.
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander should arrange with Mr M for the issue regarding the rear 
paintwork to be rectified, and to meet the cost of this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to arrange with Mr M for the issue regarding the rear 
paintwork to be rectified, and to meet the cost of this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman