DRN-3070428
The complaint and background
Mr B complains that Santander UK PLC didnt do enough to protect him from falling victim to 
an alleged investment scam.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by his daughter, Miss B, who has a Power of Attorney
(PoA) over his affairs. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr B.
Santander declined Mr Bs claim for a refund of money he has lost. Whilst sympathetic to the 
situation, it said it cannot be held responsible for his loss, as he willingly sent cheques to 
third parties for investment purposes.
On 10 August 2021, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
1. Mr B seeks recovery of the cheque payments below he says were made as a result of a 
scam:
Payment 1: Cheque dated 1 February 2016 was debited from Mr Bs account on 
9 February 2016. It was made payable to a limited company, which Ill refer to as 
D1, for £19,870.
Payment 2: Cheque dated 17 March 2016 was debited from Mr Bs account on 
1 April 2016. It was made payable to a different limited company, which Ill refer to as 
D2, for £40,095.
Payment 3: Cheque dated 5 September 2016 was debited from Mr Bs account on 
6 September 2016. It was made payable to D2 for £43,880.
2. Its understandable having lost such a significant sum why Mr B feels he has been the 
victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact 
fraudulent and/or a scam. I have taken account of the Fraud Act 2006, which defines 
fraud as, amongst other things, dishonestly making a false representation, whether 
express or implied, in order to make oneself a gain or cause another loss; and a 
representation is false if its untrue or misleading and the representor knows that it is or 
might be untrue or misleading.
3. D1 and D2 were both registered limited companies  more specifically wine merchants 
who sold fine wine as an investment opportunity. Simply put, both firms were offering 
unregulated investment schemes. D1 was incorporated in 2014 and dissolved in 2019. 
D2 was incorporated in 2015 and was operating until 2020, when the High Court ordered 
it to be wound up in the public interest. Ive taken into account that it was noted by the 
judge that D2 sold stock to some of its customers at double the usual retail price and 
was arguably found to have some unscrupulous and/or misleading sales scripts with 
returns to investors being vastly overstated. However, Ive not seen anything that meets 
the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case 
of a bad investment and questionable sales methods/trading practices. So, on balance, 
taking into account everything thats been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that 
Mr B has been a victim of a scam or that D1 and D2 were operating fraudulently.
4. Importantly, the information which became publicly available in 2020 would not have 
been known at the time Mr B wrote and issued the cheques which instructed Santander 
to pay D1 and D2. At the time, D1 and D2 were simply registered limited companies 
selling fine wine to investors as an unregulated investment opportunity.
5. Having concluded that this was likely a case of a bad investment rather than a scam, 
there is nothing further for me to consider, as a bank has no obligation to protect its 
customers from bad bargains or give them investment advice. There are occasions when 
we do think banks should query payments  whether electronic or via cheque  because 
of suspicious activity that appears unusual or uncharacteristic for the account or 
customer. If such potential fraud alerts are triggered, it is fair and reasonable for a 
banker to pause and ask questions of the payer about the transaction  which might 
unravel a scam and stop it before any loss occurs. But those considerations, which we 
have previously set out in our published decisions (and which also largely apply to 
cheque transactions, taking account of necessary changes given different processes and 
technologies), are predicated on there being evidence of a fraud or scam, which is not 
the case here. A bank does not have to intervene with authorised payments, and cannot 
be held liable for alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the payer 
has regrets or second thoughts after the event.
6. Indeed, a banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the 
terms and conditions of the account contract (and of course the customers ancillary 
contract with the third-party payee, e.g. a retailer, creditor, supplier, etc). This position 
has long been recognised at common law. So, if it fails to comply with a validly-executed 
payment order, the bank could be held liable in damages  as could the drawer (i.e. 
payer) where the payment method used is a cheque. The starting position is that the 
bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer instructs it to 
make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn in accordance with the 
terms of the contract, a bank must honour the payment unless there are legal, regulatory 
or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional circumstances, allow refusal of a 
payment instruction.
7. Ultimately, Mr B paid sums by cheque to what appear to be  at least at the material time 
 legitimate firms offering an unregulated investment opportunity. There is no evidence 
that Santander had  or ought reasonably to have had  concerns about the two firms. I 
therefore conclude that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when settling payments 
instructed by Mr B to pay D1 and D2 between February and September 2016.
8. Part of Mr Bs complaint relates to the service Santander provided when stopping the 
fourth and final cheque he made payable to D2. Santander have paid £100 in 
acknowledgement for any distress or inconvenience this maladministration caused. I 
think the compensatory amount offered is fair and reasonable for this ancillary aspect of 
his complaint.
my provisional decision
Im sorry for the length of time Mr Bs complaint has been with our service and the time it has
taken for the complaint to reach this stage of our process. I realise that my intended decision
will be disappointing, particularly given that our investigator upheld the complaint in full.
But for the reasons set out above, I am not minded to uphold this complaint or make any
award against Santander UK PLC.Response to my provisional decision 
Santander have not responded to my provisional decision. 
Miss B responded on behalf of Mr B. She did not accept my provisional decision and has 
made detailed submissions in support of Mr Bs case. Broadly, these covered: 
- reasons for why she believes D1 and D2 were operating fraudulently; and 
- reasons for why Santander could and should have intervened in the context of 
suspiciously unusual or uncharacteristic payments from his account. 
I have carefully read and considered those submissions in full. However, Ive not detailed 
here her submissions relating to when Santander could and should have intervened. The 
reason being that, before I can comment on those, I first need to consider and get over the 
initial hurdle of Mr B proving on balance that the transactions detailed in paragraph 1 of my 
provisional decision were in fact fraudulent. As explained in my provisional decision, a bank 
does not have to protect its customers from bad bargains or stop them from making a bad 
investment. 
Here are Miss Bs submissions in relation to alleged fraud:
- She disagrees with my conclusion that D2 has not been proven to be a fraudulent 
company. She believes it was a total and outright scam. In short, she believes the 
nature and severity of the court sanction supports a finding that D2 were operating 
fraudulently. She draws particular attention to the High Court citing that it was 
winding the company up in the public interest and to the director being banned from 
setting up or controlling any limited company until 2032. She says an 11-year 
disqualification suggests to her that the director was committing fraud.  
- Miss B says D2s company director had previously been convicted of fraud. She 
suggests hed likely changed his name, to avoid detection, before he set up D2. 
- Miss B quotes a section of the Fraud Act 2006: Fraud by false representation 
(Section 2)
(1)A person is in breach of this section if he
(a) dishonestly makes a false representation, and
(b) intends, by making the representation
(i) to make a gain for himself or another, or
(ii) to cause loss to another or to expose another to a risk of loss.
She feels the offence is entirely focussed on the conduct of the defendant. She 
argues that over 335 people lost their money. The director made substantial gains by 
being dishonest, untruthful and misleading investors. She alleges the company 
director spent over £5.5 million on renting flash houses, leasing expensive cars, 
designer clothes, trips to Formula 1 events, nightclub parties, etc. She argues this 
evidences fraud by false representation.
- She says being a limited company means absolutely nothing. Anyone can set up a 
limited company for legitimate purpose or illegitimate, as has been proven time and 
time again. - Miss B acknowledges that there hasnt been a criminal conviction. She thinks the 
current reason for this is that many impacted individuals have decided not to pursue 
matters through the courts as they feel unwise and embarrassed. For similar reasons 
several have not told family members. And some individuals are not even aware of 
what has happened. 
- She states that much of the wine was not even purchased by D2 and was never 
delivered to the wine storage warehouse. D2 failed to fulfil and honour orders as far 
back as 2016  which is when Mr B invested. The director was found to have 
submitted inaccurate accounts to Companies House. The Deputy Judge stated that 
there is something extremely wrong about this company, before confirming that the 
promised returns to investors were vastly overstated. She thinks this is enough to 
evidence fraud by false representation. 
     
- She also believes D2 intentionally chose a company name which was an eponym of 
a legitimate stock exchange index. Miss B thinks this was a clever ploy to entice the 
vulnerable and elderly. This group of individuals wouldnt necessarily have access to 
computers to conduct checks on the company; however, they wouldve heard or read 
about the index through the media. She believes the use of such a name was a tactic 
to make the company appear genuine.  
- Miss B says D1 supplied wine which was not the wine that was ordered and paid for, 
and not the amount that was ordered. D2 failed to supply any wine at all. So she is 
not sure how I can conclude that Mr B hasnt been a victim of a scam or that D1 and 
D2 werent operating fraudulently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what has happened to Mr B. I realise how upsetting this is 
for him. I can understand entirely, given the significance of his loss, why he believes he has 
fallen victim to a scam and feels strongly that his money should be returned to him. 
However, I still remain of the view that this complaint should not succeed because, in my 
judgment, Mr B still hasnt proven fraud  for the reasons that follow. 
All of Miss Bs submissions on the issue of fraud, with the exception of one point, focus on 
D2 and its director. D1 and D2 are separate legal entities  with different directors. It doesnt 
automatically follow that if one company is found to be fraudulent the same can be 
concluded for the other.  
Ive not been provided with any new evidence that persuades me D1 was acting fraudulently. 
In response to my provisional decision, Miss B said that D1 supplied wine which was not the 
wine that was ordered and paid for, and not the amount that was ordered. She does not 
think it can fairly be concluded that Mr B hasnt been a victim of a scam or that D1 werent 
operating fraudulently. 
I dont think the transaction Mr B entered into with D1 was fraudulent. I say this, firstly, 
because there is a high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. From what Ive seen, 
D1 had been operating uneventfully for five years before it was dissolved. The supplying of 
the wrong wine or incomplete delivery does not necessarily prove fraud; it could just as 
easily be incompetence or maladministration. In which case, Mr B wouldve had a civil claim 
for damages in negligence and/or breach of contract against D1 (but not against his bank). 
On the limited evidence before me, I cannot safely conclude that D1 intentionally and dishonestly provided the wrong wines and/or didnt provide the goods ordered in order to 
make wrongful gain at the expense of customers. So, it follows, as Im satisfied there isnt 
enough evidence to conclude D1 was operating fraudulently, the other considerations in 
relation to the cheque payment Mr B made to D1 fall away  because the bank has no 
obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or give them investment advice. 
Moving onto the payments Mr B made to D2, I note that Miss B said D2 failed to supply any 
wine. But this doesnt in itself prove that the transactions Mr B had entered into were 
fraudulent. Investment-grade wine needs to be stored properly. So its common for wine not 
to be delivered directly to the investor but, instead, for a vintner to store (at a small cost) 
purchased wine in a bonded warehouse to ensure provenance and safekeeping. The 
Insolvency Service, during its investigations, have confirmed that D2 were holding wines at a 
bonded warehouse  albeit not enough to fulfil all the orders recorded on its sales list. 
Reference was also made to unfulfilled orders  some as early as 2016. I place emphasis on 
some. The statement would suggest many orders were fulfilled. There is no clear evidence 
to substantiate whether or not D2 were holding any wines on Mr Bs behalf. So, taking all the 
above into consideration, its difficult for me to reach the conclusion that in relation to the 
subject-matter transactions the director or his company were dishonestly misleading Mr B in 
order to obtain some advantage and never had any intention to fulfil his orders.  
Companies get wound-up or struck-off, and directors disqualified, for many reasons  not all 
of which are due to fraud. In summary, D2 was wound up in the High Court after it misled 
investors and failed to deliver customers orders when operating an unregulated investment 
scheme. (For the avoidance of doubt wine investments did not have to be regulated, so this 
in itself proves nothing.) Its director was disqualified for allowing D2 to trade with a lack of 
commercial probity and/or with a lack of suitable governance as it engaged in objectionable 
and improper sales techniques in relation to the sale of wine as an investment. Miss B also 
pointed out that D2 were found to have filed materially inaccurate accounts and the 
Deputy Judge stated that there is something extremely wrong about this company. But 
from what Ive seen, theres nothing in the judgment which expressly or impliedly indicates 
that D2 or its directors actions were fraudulent. The Deputy Judges comment could equally 
apply where a company has poor practices and has been poorly managed. 
I think its important to highlight that misleading investors (e.g. by overstating profits or 
understating losses, etc) is not the same as defrauding customers; and a failure to deliver on 
some customers orders and filing inaccurate accounts does not necessarily equate to 
fraudulent transactions. Non-delivery of goods could just as easily have been D2 getting 
itself into financial trouble. It may have always intended to buy the wine but couldnt due to 
liquidity or cash flow  which is not the same as fraud. Nevertheless, these are things a 
director could get disqualified for and a company struck off. But again, liability in a civil claim 
for breach of contract (i.e. not delivering goods ordered) could be established without 
meeting the higher probative threshold needed to be prosecuted for dishonesty or deceit 
under the Fraud Act 2006. So overall, Im still not persuaded that Mr B has discharged the 
standard of proof required to show fraud. Im therefore still of the opinion that this appears to 
be, on balance, just a case of a bad investment or questionable sales methods/trading 
practices. 
I accept the director of D2 appears not to be an upstanding person of good character. 
However, someone acting fraudulently in relation to one transaction does not prove that 
theyve acted fraudulently in relation to another transaction. It is a potentially relevant fact 
and, if there were other direct or enough circumstantial evidence of fraud, might prove a 
decisive factor. But that is not the case here. It is important not to prejudge an issue just 
based on someones past or character. Courts and tribunals must decide cases on the 
actual evidence before them, not on supposition or adverse inferences from ancillary 
information. So whilst I can see the point Miss B is trying to make, the fact that the director has acted fraudulently elsewhere in relation to third-party transactions (unconnected with this 
situation) is not enough to prove that fraud has taken place in the circumstances of Mr Bs 
case. 
I appreciate Miss B doesnt think D2 being a limited company matters. I disagree. It does 
matter that D2 is a limited company. A limited company has a discrete legal personality, 
separate from its director. So, the directors convictions in relation to other matters show that 
hes of poor character but they do not show that in relation to transactions carried out by the 
company there was a fraudulent intent. And Ive seen no evidence that there was 
malpractice in relation to the wine transactions carried out by D2. 
Ive considered the point Miss B makes about the directors spending and choice of company 
name. Ive not seen any evidence of how the investor funds were spent but, in any event, 
directors treating company money as their own is a matter of company law  and a matter 
for the companys shareholders and creditors. I agree its not good optics if the director of D2 
spent money as described by Miss B, but it still doesnt prove fraud. Legitimate 
businesspeople also sometimes buy expensive properties, cars, clothes, etc. Similar 
principles apply to choosing a company name which resembles a legitimate stock exchange 
index. Plenty of legitimate companies choose names which lend a certain cachet that may 
arguably be undeserved, or which bear little resemblance to the actual quality of their goods 
or services. 
Ultimately, Miss B has presented one hypothesis without hard evidence. The available 
evidence we have could equally point to other hypotheses  such as this was poor company 
management (less than fraud) such as: negligent misrepresentation, cash-flow problems, 
mere maladministration, or wrongdoings which would give Mr B a tortious right of action (i.e. 
a civil claim) against the company, but which does not meet the higher threshold of fraud 
and would not be enough to found an action in deceit, dishonesty or fraud. Im not satisfied 
Mr B has provided the standard of evidence required to establish fraud. As a result of the 
above, I do not need to make a finding in relation to whether Santander could and should 
have intervened in the context of suspiciously unusual or uncharacteristic payments from 
Mr Bs account. Such logic would only apply if Id found evidence of fraud.  
As noted above, you can have misrepresentations that are negligent (or even inadvertent) 
rather than fraudulent  that would still entitle someone to rescind the contract and recover 
their money. That would be a civil dispute between the customer and trader. In other words, 
there are misrepresentations below deceit and there might be a civil remedy against the 
company on the basis of a misrepresentation that is negligent, reckless, inadvertent, etc. We 
wouldnt apply our approach to fraud and scams and ask a bank to refund or interrupt a 
transaction that was legitimate but induced by, say, negligent misrepresentation. A bank has 
to guard against the risk of fraud and scams. They dont have to protect someone from 
losses where theyd have a civil right of recovery against the merchant. There is only a like 
claim against a bank for breach of contract or (any type of) misrepresentation if the goods or 
services were purchased via credit  and this is due to the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So, 
had Mr B purchased the wine using a credit card, he may have had a like claim against the 
bank under section 75 of that Act. Unfortunately, he paid by cheque, so the bank has no 
legal responsibility to cover his losses. Just as it would have no liability for non-fraudulent 
transactions effected by cash or a direct bank transfer. I appreciate our investigators view gave Mr B hope and I can empathise with the 
disappointment he felt on receipt of my provisional decision. I recognise that our investigator 
went down the route of fraud. But we make it clear to all applicants that ours is potentially a 
two-stage process if either party disagrees with the initial view  and it is the responsibility of 
the ombudsman to consider all the evidence and arguments afresh, not just rubber-stamp 
what went before. All dispute resolution processes carry the risk of the first outcome being 
overturned on appeal. And I have explained above why, in my opinion, it would not be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that this was a case of fraud. 
I have also explained above why it is not appropriate to make findings on whether a bank 
should have been triggered and intervened in a case where we have not surmounted the 
initial hurdle of concluding that something was fraud. Accordingly, Im not going to comment 
on any of Miss Bs submissions which relate to the FCA Principles; papers and guides 
issued by the regulator; or the BSI Code of Practice: PAS 17271: 2017 Protecting 
customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. In my judgment, they 
are not relevant to the facts of this particular case. 
I realise my final decision will be a significant disappointment to Mr B and Miss B. But having 
considered all the evidence and argument afresh in light of Miss Bs response, it remains my 
conclusion that Santander cannot fairly be held liable for Mr Bs loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and before in my provisional decision, I am not persuaded 
that Santander UK PLC acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard to the authorised cheque 
payments, so I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman