DRN-2730339
The complaint
X is unhappy how NatWest Markets Plc, trading as The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), dealt 
with a foreign currency cheque.
What happened
On 12 March 2019, X deposited a cheque for TK100,000 (Bangladeshi Taka) into his 
account with RBS, for collection from an overseas account. RBS sent the cheque for 
collection on 18 March 2019 and told X that it could take up to 12-weeks.
RBS received the cheque back from the overseas bank unpaid. And no explanation was 
provided as to why it was unpaid. RBS represented the cheque to the overseas bank. But 
the overseas bank refused to cash the cheque. And, despite RBS chasing them on multiple 
occasions, the overseas bank didnt return the cheque. And they stopped communication 
with RBS.
X has complained that RBS failed to cash the cheque and failed to return the original 
cheque. So he asked RBS to compensate him for the value of TK100,000. But RBS didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong. So X brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said RBS had tried to present the cheque and werent given any reason why 
the overseas bank didnt cash this. And he thought RBS had acted reasonably by 
representing the cheque, as this was within the original 12-week period theyd told X it could 
take for the cheque to be processed. 
He also thought RBS had acted reasonably by chasing the overseas bank for the unpaid 
cheque, and he didnt think they could be held responsible for the overseas bank not 
returning this to them. So he didnt think RBS needed to do anything more.
X didnt agree with the investigator. He felt that, in accepting the cheque, RBS had taken 
responsibility to safeguard the cheque and that they had a moral obligation to address the 
issue. And hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to X, 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this has caused X. And I understand that hes having 
difficulty getting the person who wrote the cheque to reissue this, without the original cheque 
being returned to them. But, for me to agree that RBS should compensate X, Id need to be 
satisfied that RBSs actions had caused the cheque to not be cashed and not returned to 
them. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
RBS presented the cheque to the overseas bank, as instructed. And the overseas bank 
returned this to them unpaid. I havent seen anything to show me why this cheque was 
returned initially. But not paying the cheque was a decision of the overseas bank, and I cant 
hold RBS responsible for this decision.
Ive then considered if RBS acted reasonably be representing the cheque, without telling X 
whatd happened. And I think they did. Because they hadnt been given any reason why the 
cheque had been returned, RBS wouldnt have been able to tell X anything other than theyd 
had the cheque back. Given these circumstances, I think its more likely than not that X 
wouldve asked RBS to represent the cheque; even if hed spoken to the person whod 
issued the cheque about this first. So I dont think things wouldve been any different if RBS 
had spoken to X.
The cheque was rejected by the overseas bank a second time on 8 May 2019  still well 
within the 12-weeks RBS had told X it would take to get the funds. This time the overseas 
bank explained the reason for rejection was because this kind of transaction is not 
admissible. And they never returned the cheque to RBS.
This only left RBS with the option of chasing the overseas bank for the return of the cheque. 
Which they did, on multiple occasions, up until 31 March 2020. But the overseas bank didnt 
respond to RBS and didnt return the cheque. RBS arent responsible for the actions of the 
overseas bank, and they cant make them respond or return the cheque. 
X has said that RBS had a responsibility to safeguard the cheque. And they did so. The 
cheque couldnt be cashed without it being presented to the overseas bank, and RBS did 
this  twice. The cheque wasnt lost or destroyed while in RBSs possession, and it was 
given to the only other party who were entitled to receive it  the overseas bank. So Im 
satisfied that RBS acted properly when dealing with the cheque.
X has also said that RBS have a moral obligation to address the issue. And, by chasing the 
overseas bank for the return of the cheque, Im satisfied theyve acted reasonably in trying to 
fulfil their obligations. But, as Ive said, RBS cant make the overseas bank return the 
cheque. So I wont be asking them to take any further action. Its now for X to approach the 
person who sent him the cheque to try and obtain a replacement. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Xs complaint about NatWest Markets Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman