DRN-3977245
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their claim for damage to 
their property, which they believe should be covered under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had home insurance with Ageas that covered them for any loss or damage to 
their property caused by storm or flood. In February 2022 they contacted Ageas to make a 
claim. They said the majority of the felt on their flat roof had blown off in a storm during the 
night. Ageas said it couldnt send a surveyor to their property for about three weeks but 
advised them to make a temporary repair in between times. So, a roofing company covered 
and secured the roof with tarpaulin. 
Ageass surveyor inspected the damage in March 2022 and concluded it hadnt been caused 
by a one-off storm event as the storm had merely highlighted pre-existing issues. They said 
the fascia to the front of the felt roof was missing and completely rotten and the felt lying on 
the ground was brittle when snapped, thus showing signs of solar degradation and age or 
wear and tear. In light of the surveyors report, Ageas declined the claim.
Mr and Mr H complained to Ageas. They said they had to wait several weeks for the 
surveyor to attend and he then didnt carry out a full investigation of the roof. They said they 
had to provide a ladder and go onto the roof to remove the tarpaulin. They said the roofers 
who had provided the temporary repair were happy to state the damage was caused by a 
storm and not wear and tear. And they provided further photographs of the damage.
Ageas accepted thered been a storm at the time Mr and Mrs H said their roof had been 
damaged. But the surveyors report said the damage had been caused by wear and tear 
issues, and so wasnt covered by the terms of their policy. Ageas said it had shown the new 
photographs to the surveyor but he thought they supported his view that the fascia was 
rotten and the wind had got underneath the felt and pulled it back. The surveyor also 
responded to the points Mr and Mrs H had made about his inspection. 
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted fairly. He was satisfied the surveyor had carried 
out a reasonable inspection of the property and that it was fair for Ageas to rely on his report 
to decline the claim. He also thought the delay in carrying out the survey was reasonable in 
light of the circumstances at that time. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three main questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Ageas has accepted there were storm conditions on the night Mr and Mrs H said the 
damage happened. It said there were wind gusts of up to 71mph in the area where they live, 
and I too am satisfied this constitutes storm conditions. So, I can answer yes to issue one.
I can also answer yes to issue two. Strong winds of this nature can damage property by 
lifting felt and allowing water to penetrate, so Im satisfied the damage claimed in this 
instance is consistent with damage typically caused by a storm. 
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. The surveyor noted that the fascia to the front of the flat roof where the felt was 
missing was completely rotten and missing. And that the felt laying on the roof and driveway 
was brittle when snapped, showing signs of solar degradation and wear and tear. When Mr 
and Mrs H provided further photographs of the damage, the surveyor thought they supported 
his initial view. He said they showed the rotting fascia at the front of the roof where the wind 
had got underneath and pulled it back. 
Ive reviewed the evidence from the surveyor and Im satisfied their inspection was 
adequate. Theyve taken a number of photographs of the relevant areas of the roof and I 
think these help to support their findings. For example, the photographs support their view 
that the fascia was rotting. And I think the further photos provided by Mr and Mrs H later on 
show the same thing. Flat felt rooves like this are known to deteriorate over time and, to my 
mind, the photographs clearly show the poor condition of the roof felt and fascia. I note that 
Mr and Mrs H accept the fascia had some minor damage that probably was wear and tear. 
Unfortunately, its that sort of pre-existing damage that is highlighted by a storm event, 
particularly one with wind speeds of up to 71 mph.
And so, taken together, I think it was fair for Ageas to say the damage was more likely to 
have been caused by wear and tear, rather than by storm conditions. It seems to me that the 
damage to the roof was already present when the bad weather began and the strong winds 
simply highlighted the damage that was already there. 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover them for Loss or damage caused by wear and tear, wet 
or dry rot or anything which happens gradually. And, with all of this in mind, Im unable to 
answer yes to storm issue three. So, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline Mr and 
Mrs Hs claim for storm damage.
Other issues
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the time it took Ageas to send a surveyor. And they werent 
happy that they had to go up a ladder to remove some of the tarpaulin before the surveyor 
agreed to inspect the roof. 
In terms of the time taken to send a surveyor, Ageas said that at the time of Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim, it had received a large number of claims due to several named storms arriving in the 
UK over a short period of time. It said that had caused an excessive workload for Ageas and 
its agents. Mr and Mrs H made their claim in February 2022, around the same time three named storms caused damage across the UK. Other named storms had caused damage to 
properties in January 2022. So, I think its understandable there were some delays in Ageas 
carrying out assessments and surveys at that time.  
In response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about his inspection, the surveyor said he couldnt 
inspect the roof initially because the tarpaulin that was covering it was screwed down and he 
didnt have any tools. He said Mr H then went up several steps and pulled the tarpaulin up 
so they could see under it. The surveyor said he used Mr and Mrs Hs ladder as it was easier 
than getting his own ladder from his car. On balance, I dont think this explanation is 
unreasonable or unfair. The surveyor has explained his actions and, importantly, he was 
able to carry out an inspection of the roof. As Ive said above, he was able to take a number 
of photographs to highlight the poor condition of the fascia and the roof felt, and these 
helped to support Ageass decision to decline the claim. 
Summary
I recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling but, in light of the above, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably ask Ageas to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman