DRN-1761572
 
The complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr I took out a mortgage with BoS in 1993. At the same time, he was sold a PPI policy which 
would have covered his mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if Mr I couldnt 
work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mr I says that he didnt know the PPI was optional. He says he was led to believe he had to 
have it, it wasnt explained clearly and that he didnt need it.
 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Is complaint should be upheld. Mr I disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Is 
complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr I that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied. Mr I doesnt suggest that it was added without his consent, but he says 
that he didnt know it was optional. 
I cant know with any certainty what took place during the sale. More than 27 years have 
passed since the sale, so its understandable  although unfortunate  that neither party has 
been able to supply any of the PPI documents used at the time. 
However, my understanding of BoS sales processes from around the time of the sale is that 
PPI was optional and was presented as such to the customer. Although I appreciate that Mr I 
believes that this didnt happen in his case I havent seen sufficient evidence to suggest that 
on this occasion its more likely that BoS didnt present the policy as optional. BoS has also 
supplied a copy of Mr Is mortgage application form, and a copy of the mortgage offer. 
Neither of them mentions PPI. I think it the PPI hadnt been optional it would have been 
mentioned as part of the mortgage application process, or in the mortgage offer. 
So, on the limited information I have, I think its most likely Mr I bought the policy 
understanding he had a choice about it although I understand why he may not remember 
that now. 
Bos say it advised Mr I to take the PPI. This means it had to check it was suitable for Mr I. I 
dont know if BoS took all the steps it should have done to check this, but I do think the 
policy was suitable for Mr I. I say this because:
Mr I was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Is contractual sick pay and potentially 
for a longer period than his full sick pay would have lasted. Similarly, it would have 
paid out in addition to any redundancy pay for up to a year at a time. This would have 
meant that Mr Is savings could be used to cover other uninsured expenses;
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr I;
Mr I could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out if he no longer 
wanted or needed it. 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr I, BoS also had to give him clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the 
policy  so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr I wasnt as clear as it should have been but this in 
itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this 
because Im satisfied the PPI was suitable for Mr I in the way Ive described. So, having 
taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr I this PPI policy.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Is complaint, it follows that Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman