DRN-1232096
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the advice given by John Charcol Limited. They say the 
advice to take a bridging loan was unsuitable as the exit strategy wasn't executable.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had an existing bridging loan on their residential property and the term was 
due to end in August 2016. They approached John Charcol to discuss refinancing options, 
and they've said their stated objective was to retain the property and to continue living in it.
John Charcol was unable to source a residential mortgage for Mr and Mrs C. Following 
discussions John Charcol recommended a further bridging loan to them.
Mrs C was working on a project to try to obtain planning permission to develop some 
greenbelt land that she owned jointly with other members of her family. If successful the 
project would repay the bridging loan, but it was speculative as it relied upon the site being 
chosen by the Local Authority for development and for planning permission to be granted.
The bridging loan application was submitted to the lender with the project noted to be the 
exit strategy, with a 'back up' strategy of remortgaging the property onto a buy-to-let basis 
and Mr and Mrs C moving into a new property. 
The loan completed in January 2017.
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs C complained to John Charcol. They said, in summary, that 
the term was too short and the exit strategy was too speculative. They said they now 
can't move out of the property and rent elsewhere as there's insufficient equity to raise a 
buy-to-let mortgage, it would take too long to rent the property out, and they didn't have the 
funds available to put down a rental deposit of 3-6 months for the type of property they'd 
need to rent (which would cost between £4,000 and £6,000 a month). John Charcol rejected 
the complaint.
Our investigator said there were limited options available that would have allowed Mr and 
Mrs C to continue living in their property. He said if John Charcol hadn't arranged this new 
bridging loan then it seems the property would have had to have been sold (potentially after 
being taken into possession by the previous lender). He felt this bridging loan gave Mr and 
Mrs C more time to explore their options and the potential exit strategies.
Mr and Mrs C didn't agree, saying the exit strategy John Charcol recommended was simply 
not executable.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
It seems from the correspondence from Mr and Mrs C at the time of the application that they 
had confidence Mrs C's project would give them the exit strategy for their bridging loan. That 
exit strategy wasn't something John Charcol recommended in itself as it wouldn't have the 
knowledge of the project to do so, but it was something it put forward to the lender (along 
with the back up strategy that it did recommend).
Mr C emailed John Charcol on 30 September 2016 stating the exit strategy for the new 
bridging loan remained to repay it out of the sale proceeds of Mrs C's project.
In reply to a query about the likelihood of the project realising the funds to repay the bridging 
loan on time, Mrs C emailed John Charcol on 24 January 2017 setting out some further 
details of the project. In that she said it was the view of the interested parties that the project 
was "... in a strong position to be the next site to be earmarked for building" and that it was 
felt by the experts they were in a favourable position. 
I'm satisfied John Charcol was led by Mr and Mrs C in terms of their confidence in the exit 
strategy put forward, and had the project been successful then the bridging loan would have 
been repaid in full and therefore the exit strategy would have been met. The problem came 
when it seems Mr and Mrs C's confidence was misplaced as the Local Authority chose a 
different site to develop, rather than Mrs C's.
John Charcol had put forward a second strategy to cover such a scenario, and despite Mr 
and Mrs C believing otherwise this second strategy was achievable based on the information 
they'd given to John Charcol at the time.
Mr and Mrs C have pointed out that the illustration for the buy-to-let exit strategy is based on 
a property value of £2.8m whereas their property had only been valued at £2.6m. But that 
doesn't make the exit strategy unsuitable or unachievable. Based on a 60% loan to value of 
a £2.6m property Mr and Mrs C would have had a shortfall of under £10,000 to find plus the 
fees to set up the new buy-to-let mortgage and their moving costs. 
As the information Mr and Mrs C declared to John Charcol showed significant savings and 
assets - plus their combined incomes for the ten-month loan period wouldn't have been 
spent on any residential mortgage/rental costs as they didn't need to make monthly 
payments to this bridging loan - then it seems funding the small shortfall and the other costs 
shouldn't have been an issue. 
I'm satisfied the strategy put forward by John Charcol to remortgage onto a buy-to-let basis 
at the end of the term (if Mrs C's project hadn't realised the funds needed to repay the debt) 
was reasonable, and seemed achievable at the time. Mr and Mrs C entered into this 
transaction in full awareness of the details, and already having a bridging loan (so this wasn't 
a new concept for them). If they weren't happy to take the risk of relying on the two potential 
exit strategies then they had the option to sell the property instead.
My final decisionI don't uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman