DRN-2835208
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) unfairly brought 
about an unaffordable loan for him. He says that he was already dependant on credit and 
any checks would have shown that he couldnt afford to sustainably repay what he was 
being lent. 
Background
Ratesetter operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr S being 
provided with a loan in March 2019. The loan was for £6,600.00, had an APR of 17.9% and 
60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £9,759.00, which included 
interest, fees and charges of £3,159.00, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of 
£162.65.
Mr S complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Ratesetter ought 
to have seen that Mr S wasnt in a position to repay this loan at the time it arranged it. So 
she upheld Mr S complaint. Ratesetter disagreed with our adjudicators view and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and industry codes of practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr S complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr S complaint.
These two overarching questions are:
Did Ratesetter complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that   
Mr S would be able to meet his obligations under this P2P agreement in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to 
do so?
Did Ratesetter act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Ratesetter didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Ratesetter complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to meet his obligations under the P2P agreement in a sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Ratesetter brought about 
these P2P agreements with Mr S required it to carry out a proportionate assessment of 
whether he could afford to make his repayments. This assessment is sometimes referred to 
as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Ratesetter had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr S. In 
practice this meant that Ratesetter had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it 
wasnt enough for Ratesetter to simply think about the likelihood of Mr S making payments, it 
had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments 
for an extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.Were Ratesetters checks reasonable and proportionate?
Ratesetter says it estimated Mr S disposable income before arranging this loan. It says it did 
this by asking Mr S about his income, which he declared to be £50,000.00 a year. It also 
carried out credit checks to work out what Mr S existing credit commitments were too. Mr S 
declared income was cross-referenced against information on his credit file. Ratesetter 
estimated that 45% of his declared income would be available and it deducted an amount for 
Mr S existing credit commitments from this. In its view, this left Mr S with enough to not only 
enable him to make the monthly loan repayments of £162.65 but also leave him a significant 
surplus over and above this. 
Ive thought about Ratesetters checks. But this was a loan with a five-year term. And it 
seems to me that everything Ratesetter did flowed from estimations based on Mr S declared 
monthly income. I appreciate that Ratesettter says that it verified Mr S declaration against 
information on his credit file. But I dont think that what Ratesetter has described is the same 
as verifying Mr S income. 
At best what Ratesetter did was cross-checked Mr S declaration against an estimation 
made by a third party. And I think thats an important distinction for me to make here. Given 
Ratesetter was only estimating Mr S living rent or mortgage payments and other living costs 
and based this estimate on a percentage of Mr S declared income, I think it would have 
been reasonable and proportionate for it to have actually verified Mr S declaration. 
As Ratesetter proceeded with this loan without taking steps to verify Mr S income before 
estimating his rent or mortgage payments and living costs based on a percentage of this, Im 
satisfied that the checks Ratesetter carried out before arranging this loan werent reasonable 
and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Ratesetter that Mr S would 
have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that proportionate checks would have told Ratesetter that Mr S wouldve been 
unable to repay this loan without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse 
consequences. 
Mr S has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr S has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Ratesetter mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Ratesetter showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr S financial circumstances were more likely than not 
to have been at the time.
Having reviewed the information provided its clear that Mr S income was substantially lower 
than what Ratesetter believed. And when Mr S existing commitments were deducted from 
his actual income he didnt have anywhere near enough left over to be able to repay this 
loan without borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse consequences. I am 
aware that Mr S did settle this loan in full a few months into the term. But I think that this is 
indicative of him being in a cycle of repeat lending. And it certainly doesnt mean that Mr S 
would have been able to repay what he owed without borrowing further.   So bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have demonstrated that Mr S would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without undue difficulty, borrowing further or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. And it follows that I think reasonable and proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown Ratesetter it was unfair to bring about this loan for  
Mr S. 
Did Ratesetter act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Ratesetter acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some 
other way.  
So I find that Ratesetter didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on pages 
one and two of this decision, I find that Ratesetter:
didnt complete proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself that he was able to 
repay his loan; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr S 
was unable to make the repayments for this loan without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences;
Ratesetter didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way.
The above findings leave me concluding that Ratesetter unfairly and unreasonably brought 
about this loan for Mr S.
Did Mr S lose out as a result of Ratesetter unfairly and unreasonably bringing about his 
loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr S indebtedness as it led to him 
being given additional credit he couldnt afford to repay, which he had to pay further interest 
and charges on. So I find that Mr S did suffer significant adverse consequences and as a 
result lost out because Ratesetter unfairly arranged this loan.
Fair compensation  what Ratesetter needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Ratesetter to put things 
right for Mr S in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges (including any arrangement fees) Mr S 
paid;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest, fees, charges from 
the date they were paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of this 
loan. HM Revenue & Customs requires Ratesetter to take off tax from this interest. Ratesetter 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Retail Money Market Ltd 
should put things right for Mr S in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman