DRN-3773001
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a business bank account. Mr 
and Mrs M want HSBC to refund charges and interest and pay compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M say they own a property to be used for commercial purposes and that HSBC 
told them to open a separate bank account which they accepted. Mr and Mrs M say that the 
bank account has never been linked to a business and that HSBC mis-sold the account to 
them. 
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with HSBCs response to their concerns, saying it cancelled a 
meeting in 2019 and hasnt been able to resolve their concerns despite calls and emails over 
an extended period.
Mr and Mrs M have provided copy emails in which they confirm that the rental income is 
treated as personal rather than business income. 
HSBC didnt agree that it had made a mistake. It said Mr and Mrs M shouldve been aware 
that they had opened a business bank account. And that as theyd taken out a commercial 
mortgage against the account, a business rather than a personal bank account was the 
suitable option. 
The first investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint be upheld. She was 
satisfied that there was a commercial mortgage attached to the property so the business 
account wouldve been appropriate. She told Mr and Mrs M that the meeting had been 
cancelled due to the impact of the pandemic but that HSBC had offered to hold the meeting 
on the phone or by video.
Mr and Mrs M responded to the first investigation outcome to say that they didnt apply for 
banking facilities with HSBC in 1997. Mr and Mrs M said their complaint related to April 2008 
when HSBC provided a short-term loan to buy a property. Mr and Mrs M said that at no time 
during meetings with HSBC did the bank ever say it intended to provide a commercial loan. 
Mr and Mrs M said HSBC never offered to have a video call with them when it cancelled the 
meeting in 2019. Mr and Mrs M pointed out that pandemic didnt start until 2020 so this 
couldnt have impacted the proposed meeting in 2019. Mr and Mrs M asked the first 
investigator why HSBC continued to treat the account as a business bank account after they 
repaid the borrowing in 2012.
A second investigator sent Mr and Mrs M her investigation outcome which didnt recommend 
upholding the complaint. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs Ms business bank account 
was switched from another bank in 2007 and that at the time the other account was also a 
business banking account. The investigator couldnt see evidence that Mr and Mrs M had 
complained about the business account until 2021
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the investigation outcome. They say its partially correct to 
say that an account was switched from another provider to HSBC with an offer of 18 months 
free banking. But that this business account related to a limited company of which Mr and 
Mrs M were directors. 
Mr and Mrs M dispute that they first complained in 2021 and point out that the first 
investigator referred to a cancelled meeting in 2019 saying HSBC did so due to the 
pandemic. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. Ive also taken the time below to explain some 
of the inconsistencies that Mr and Mrs M have pointed out in their replies to the 
investigators.
The first investigator referred to HSBC cancelling a meeting in 2019 due to the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. From looking at the complaint file, I think I can see why the confusion 
may have arisen. Mr and Mrs M told this service that HSBC had cancelled a meeting in 
2019. And there is an email chain between Mr and Mrs M and HSBC that refers to a meeting 
being cancelled. 
In the email chain, HSBC told Mr and Mrs M that the meeting was cancelled due to not being 
able to go into branch because of the Covd-19 restrictions. HSBC said it had offered a 
phone or video meeting but Mr and Mrs M preferred to meet face to face. The email chain is 
from November 2020 which would indicate the face to face meeting HSBC referred to was 
cancelled in 2020  not 2019. I hope this clarifies matters for Mr and Mrs M.
When Mr and Mrs M complained to this service, they said they bought the property in 
question in 1997 and that HSBC helped with their mortgage application. I assume this is why 
the first investigator referred to Mr and Mrs M applying for banking facilities in 1997.  I am 
sorry for any confusion this may have caused.
I also want to make sure that Mr and Mrs M are aware of what issues my decision 
addresses. During their complaint, they referred to concerns about a commercial mortgage 
that was taken out in early 2008. However, these concerns didnt form part of Mr and        
Mrs Ms original complaint which centred around the alleged mis-sale of a business bank 
account by HSBC. So, my decision only deals with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the mis-
sold business bank account, not the mortgage. 
HSBC has provided information which indicates that Mr and Mrs M opened a business 
current account in September 2007 ending with the four digits that have been referred to 
throughout this complaint. The account appears to have been opened as part of a switch 
from a previous provider and was opened in the name of Mr and Mrs M personally rather 
than the limited company of which they were directors. The principal activity of the business 
account was to receive rental income from properties and the estimated turnover was in line 
with the rental income figure that Mr and Mrs M provided in their complaint form. Based on 
this evidence, I cant reasonably find that HSBC mis-sold the business bank account to Mr 
and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M signed a mandate in September 2007 which identified themselves as partners and confirmed that they wanted to open a bank account in the firms name. Again, I think this 
indicates that Mr and Mrs M were aware theyd opened a business rather than personal 
account with HSBC.
Given the time that has passed since the business bank account was opened, its difficult to 
know what was discussed in 2007 but it seems reasonable to assume that Mr and Mrs M 
continued to receive statements detailing the charges applicable to the business account. If 
theyd been unhappy with the suitability of the account, I wouldve expected them to raise 
their concerns with HSBC sooner. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M say they raised concerns with HSBC over the past few years. 
Although Mr and Mrs M refer to a cancelled meeting in 2019, HSBC doesnt have any record 
of this. From the email chain that Ive seen, in November 2020, HSBC cancelled a personal 
review meeting due to the Covid-19 pandemic. HSBC says it offered to have the meeting by 
phone or video link but this offer was rejected. However, its not clear whether Mr and       
Mrs Ms complaint about the mis-sale of the business bank account formed part of the 
concerns to be discussed. As the investigator told Mr and Mrs M, its not until around June 
2021, that I can see evidence that they complained to HSBC about the business banking 
account. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that HSBC mis-sold the business bank 
account to Mr and Mrs M. So, I dont find it reasonable to require HSBC to refund any 
charges or pay compensation.
Mr and Mrs M have recently told this service that the business bank account was closed in 
July 2022 and replaced with another account into which rental payments are made. I asked 
the investigator to ask HSBC for further information about this. HSBC says Mr and Mrs M 
asked for the business banking account to be closed as theyd retired. The account now 
being used to collect rental payments was opened in September 2021 but wasnt used until 
April 2022. If Mr and Mrs M have any concerns about the closure of the business account or 
the account currently being used, they would have to raise these first with HSBC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman