DRN-2492032
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that she encountered several issues when trying to switch her account 
from Nationwide Building Society to a new provider.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms R switched her account from Nationwide to a new account provider. 
However, Nationwide caused several problems with the switch, which included the return of 
two-standing order payments on the basis that the information in the instructions were 
insufficient  even though they had been paid without incident by Nationwide for several 
months prior to the account switch.
Nationwide also didnt pass a refund received by them shortly after the account switch to Ms 
Rs new account provider. Ms R was also dissatisfied with the length of time that Nationwide 
took to communicate with her and was also unhappy that her mortgage payment wasnt 
transferred effectively. So, she made a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Ms Rs complaint. But they noted that they hadnt received any 
communication from Ms Rs new account provider regarding the issues that Ms R had 
referenced, and they didnt agree that their own standard of communication hadnt been to a 
reasonable level. So, the didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R wasnt satisfied with 
Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Nationwide 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably here, Our investigator noted the Current Account Switch 
Guarantee was applicable here, and that this guarantee confirmed that is was the 
responsibility of the business receiving the account  in this case Ms Rs new account 
provider  to ensure that any issues with the account switch were resolved. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint either.
Ms R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has complained that two standing orders and her mortgage payment didnt transfer 
correctly, and that she had to take some action herself to ensure that these payments were 
honoured as intended. 
I can understand Ms Rs frustration here, but its a feature of the Current Account Switch 
Guarantee that its the responsibility of the business receiving the account to resolve any 
issues that may have arisen during the switch process. Because of this, I cant fairly censure 
Nationwide for the issues that Ms R has encountered here.
Nationwide dont have any record of Ms Rs new account provider attempting to contact 
them via email  which would be the standard channel  about the issues that Ms R has 
raised. However, I understand that Ms R has stated that her new provider contacted 
Nationwide via telephone to try to resolve these issues. And I can see that these issues were 
ultimately resolved. So, it appears that a fair outcome has already been reached here. 
Ms R has also mentioned that Nationwide failed to pass a refund payment received by them 
to Ms Rs new provider. But Ive seen nothing in the information available to me that 
suggests that Nationwide have retained any funds in the manner which Ms R suggests here, 
and Nationwide have no record of receiving such a payment. 
Im also aware that one feature of the current account switch process is that payments 
directed to the old provider after the account has been switched are automatically redirected 
to the customers new account provider. 
So, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Nationwide never received the refund 
payment which Ms R refers to here. If Ms R has still been unable to locate this refund 
payment, then the company which sent the funds would be able to instruct a trace of the 
refund payment on Ms Rs behalf.
Ms R has also complained about the standard of communication that she received from 
Nationwide about these issues and has highlighted to this service that she doesnt feel that 
Nationwide took due account of the mental health issues which she suffers with. 
Communication can be both an emotive and a subjective issue, and what one person 
considers as being reasonable communication might not be thought of as such by a different 
person.
But having completed my review Im not satisfied that Nationwide communicated to Ms R in 
a way that has led to an unfair outcome. And given my findings as to the responsibilities of 
Nationwide in this instance  as explained above  its difficult to conclude that Nationwide 
should have done more here. 
Ms R has expressed her dissatisfaction that she still hasnt been provided with an 
explanation of what went wrong with the account switch, but as explained, it would be the 
responsibility of the business receiving the account to resolve any issues that Ms R might 
have with the switch.
Nationwide have stated that they didnt have a record of Ms Rs mental health issues at the 
time of the account switch. This aspect of Ms Rs complaint wasnt included in her initial 
complaint to either Nationwide or this service, and so Im limited as to how far I can 
investigate this matter in this instance. Again, this can be an emotive issue, but I will note 
that, having completed my review of this complaint, I dont feel that Nationwides 
communication with Ms R should have been significantly different, had they been aware of 
Ms Rs mental health issues. And I say this because the content of Nationwides 
communication was reasonable and appropriate, given what I have explained above.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Nationwide to take any further action at this time. I realise this wont be the outcome that Ms 
R was wanting. But I hope that she can understand, considering everything that I have 
explained above, why I have reached the decision that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman