DRN-3238565
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a multi-trip travel insurance policy that runs alongside their current 
account. The policy is underwritten by UKI.
They booked a trip in December 2019 and their intended dates of travel were from 
12 March 2020 to 28 March 2020. Mrs K unfortunately suffered a minor stroke on 
28 December 2019 (after the trip was booked). She was experiencing shortness of breath 
and her condition was being investigated. So, her GP advised her against travelling. 
On 3 February 2020, Mr K called UKI to arrange a Worldwide upgrade on their policy as the 
policy only covered trips for Europe. The policy was updated, and Mr and Mrs K paid a 
premium of £27.12 for the upgrade. 
Mr and Mrs K cancelled their trip in February 2020. They received confirmation from their 
travel provider on 26 February 2020 that the trip was cancelled. It also confirmed the trip was 
booked on a non-refundable basis. Therefore, Mr and Mrs K suffered a loss for the total 
amount of the trip theyd paid for. So, they submitted a claim to UKI under their travel 
insurance policy in March 2020. 
UKI declined the claim. It said the policy only provided cover for travel to Europe. As Mr and 
Mrs K hadnt upgraded to Worldwide cover until February 2020 (after the trip had already 
been booked in December 2019), their cancellation claim wasnt covered. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. He didnt think UKI had unfairly declined their claim. 
However, he upheld the complaint in part because he thought UKI could have handled the 
call Mr K had in February 2020 better. He said Mr K called to upgrade his policy to 
Worldwide cover. He said the advisor didnt make Mr K aware that the trip that hed already 
booked wouldnt be covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. He recommended 
UKI refund the premium Mr and Mrs K had paid for the upgrade. He also said UKI should 
pay Mr and Mrs K £100 for the way it handled the call. 
In regard to the poor service UKI had provided, our investigator said the compensation UKI 
had offered of £120 was fair and reasonable for what happened. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K feel strongly about how the claim has been assessed. I can also 
see theyve taken the time to provide comprehensive information to us. So, Id like to 
reassure them while I wont be responding to each and every point, I have read all their 
submissions.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks travel policy as this 
forms the basis of their contract with UKI. The policy Mr and Mrs K have runs alongside their 
current account. The policy covers trips for Europe and if trips are arranged outside of 
Europe, an upgrade would need to be arranged with UKI.
In the policy document, there are various sections which confirm what is covered and what 
isnt covered in terms of trips booked outside of Europe. 
On Page 6 of the policy document, it says:
This policy does not cover trips outside of Europe. If you are planning a trip outside 
Europe you need to purchase Worldwide Upgrade before you book your trip.
On page 6, it also says:
Operation of Cover and Upgrades
.
Geographical Limits
This policy provides cover for travel in Europe. If you are planning a trip outside 
Europe you need to purchase a Worldwide Upgrade before you book your trip.
Under the Specific Exclusions section of the policy document on page 18, it says, any claim 
for a trip outside of Europe is excluded unless a Worldwide Upgrade has been purchased.
And, under the Cancellation section of the policy, on page 20, it says:
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:

12. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):

16 Travel outside of Europe.
Ive also looked at Mr and Mrs Ks policy schedule which was issued to them on 
7 February 2020 because of the upgrade Mr K arranged on 3 February 2020. This confirms 
their Worldwide Upgrade cover from 7 February 2020 to 2 October 2020. At the top of the 
schedule, it says:
This document forms part of the policy. Read in conjunction with the Travel 
Insurance terms and conditions and keep it in a safe place.
Based on the above terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks travel policy and that they 
arranged the Worldwide Upgrade (in February 2020) after they booked their trip (December 
2019), Im not persuaded they have cover on the policy for their cancelled trip. 
I say this because Mrs and Mrs K booked their trip in early December 2019, Mrs K 
unfortunately suffered a mini stroke on 28 December 2019, they arranged their Worldwide 
Upgrade cover on 3 February 2020 (which was with effect from 7 February 2020) and the 
trip was cancelled around 27 February 2020. Under the terms and conditions of their policy, 
while Mr and Mrs K cancelled their trip for reasons that were understandable, this trip wasnt 
covered Worldwide but only for Europe. Their upgrade wasnt arranged until after the trip 
had been booked. As such, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask UKI to accept their cancellation claim. In this regard, I dont require UKI to do 
anything further. 
Telephone call 3 February 2020 - Worldwide Upgrade
Ive listened to Mr Ks call with UKI on 3 February 2020. In summary this is what happened:
Mr K confirmed he wanted the Worldwide policy upgrade.
The medical conditions that had already been declared for Mrs K were confirmed by 
the advisor.
Mr K informed UKI of the recent stroke Mrs K had suffered. The advisor said as this 
happened after the trip was booked, it was noted but he didnt need to declare it. He 
would however need to contact UKI for any future trips so that a medical screening is 
done. Mr K said he thought the trip had been booked in November 2019.
The Worldwide Upgrade was arranged for a premium of £27.12. The advisor didnt 
inform Mr K that the trip that hed already booked wouldnt be covered.
Mr K requested the full terms and conditions of the policy and the advisor said he 
could get this from a branch or online.
Mr and Mrs Ks address was updated.
Ive considered what happened in the call and the impact to Mr and Mrs K that the advisor 
didnt inform Mr K the trip hed already booked wouldnt be covered. 
Firstly, I note that even if Mr K had been given correct information, the trip theyd booked still 
wouldnt be covered under their policy terms and conditions. If he had been made aware of 
this, the choice would have been Mr Ks to make on whether to continue with the upgrade or 
not. So, in not providing this information, I think UKI fell short in the service it provided and in 
the expectation Mr and Mrs K would have had in being given this information. I cant say for 
sure what Mr and Mrs K would have decided if the correct information had been given to 
them. But, I can see that they didnt receive the information they should have expected. 
From Mr Ks perspective, following the call, he was left with the impression they had Worldwide cover. It was only when they made the claim, they were told they had no cover. 
Secondly, I appreciate UKI didnt provide information it should have. However, I note in the 
call Mr K said he wanted to see the full terms and conditions of the policy. I can see he did 
get these as hes provided these to us. So, going back to the above terms and conditions of 
the policy, it says, the policy provides cover for Europe and if a trip is planned outside 
Europe, an upgrade needs to be arranged before the trip is booked. 
I dont doubt that UKI could have handled the call better, But, in considering the impact of 
the lack of information, whichever we look at it, I dont think there would have been cover 
provided for the circumstances of what happened here. 
I agree therefore a refund of the premium Mr and Mrs K paid for the Worldwide Upgrade is 
fair and reasonable. I also think £100 compensation in addition to the £120 (I understand 
Mr K returned this to UKI) thats already been offered to Mr and Mrs K is fair and reasonable. 
I understand Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed with this but, in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. I also note UKI has agreed with this.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ks comments about being issued the policy schedule which 
included the Worldwide Upgrade and also in relation to the General Exclusions section of the 
policy terms and conditions. I confirm the relevant policy document that applied in Mr and 
Mrs Ks situation was one which took effect from 1 November 2019. Having reviewed all of 
this policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied the claim has not been declined unfairly by 
UKI.
 Putting things right
UKI should now do the following:
Refund the premium Mr and Mrs K paid for the Worldwide Upgrade.
Pay Mr and Mrs K total compensation of £220. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman