DRN-4189936
The complaint
Mr S complains about Abacus Money Management Ltds handling of his request to transfer 
the funds from his occupational pension defined benefit (DB) scheme to another pension 
with flexible benefits. Mr S believes that as a result of Abacus handling of the matter hes 
lost out financially.
Provisional decision 
On 30 May 2023 I issued a provisional decision. For ease of reference I've copied the 
relevant extract below. I said:
What happened
Mr S approached Abacus in 2021 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Abacus 
completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. It learnt 
that Mr S was a deferred member of his employers DB scheme. He was also an active 
member of the employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. Both he and his 
employer were making regular contributions into that pension. At the time Mr S, who was 
aged 60, was already eligible to access the majority of the benefits from his DB scheme. 
Although, some of those benefits would only become payable (at their full amount) at age 
65. He didnt plan to retire until 66.
Mr S said the reasons he wanted to transfer included the ability to take the maximum 25% 
tax free cash (TFC) from his pension funds straightaway to use for other interests, in 
particular to invest with a property developer.
Mr S DB scheme administrators provided a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
around £591,446. That CETV was guaranteed until 12 November 2021. Abacus gathered 
more information from the administrators of Mr S pensions. Abacus also ran an appropriate 
pension transfer analysis (APTA) report which included a transfer value comparator 
(TVC). The TVC indicated that, in order to buy a pension product which matched the 
benefits from his DB scheme in the open market would cost Mr S £800,896, which was 
£209,240 more than his CETV.
On 11 November 2021 Abacus sent Mr S its suitability report setting out its analysis and 
advice. Abacus said that if Mr S aim was to match the benefits from his DB scheme by 
transferring then it would strongly recommend that he didnt do so. But, as that wasnt Mr S 
aim, it recommended he should transfer his DB scheme funds into his workplace DC 
scheme. Abacus said that by transferring to his DC scheme, amongst other things, Mr S 
could:
Access the maximum TFC of £147,861 to help with his interest in property 
development.
Take his pension by means of flexi-access drawdown.
Begin drawing income from his pension while leaving the remainder invested.
To leave a legacy for his adult children in the event of his death.
However, the suitability report also noted that Mr S DC scheme did not allow flexi-access 
drawdown1. It said Mr S would need to take his TFC first and then transfer to another 
arrangement in order to do that.
Abacus charged Mr S £6,000 for providing its advice.
Mr S accepted Abacus recommendation and signed the forms to complete the transfer the 
next day.
Around a month later Abacus emailed Mr S. It said that when it had submitted the paperwork 
to the DB scheme administrators it had omitted one document and the CETV was no longer 
secured. Abacus said, as this was its mistake, it had begun the steps to obtain a new CETV. 
It said that if the CETV fell, as this was its mistake, it would cover any difference.
In January 2022 the DB scheme administrators provided a new CETV. The figure had 
increased to almost £607,000 and was guaranteed until 30 March 2022. Soon after, on 
18 January 2022 Abacus submitted the forms to transfer the new CETV to Mr S DC 
scheme.
The next day (19 January 2022) Mr S said he was having second thoughts and asked 
Abacus to stop the transfer, which it did. Then, a day later, Mr S confirmed he did want to go 
ahead with the transfer. So Abacus started the ball rolling again.
The DB scheme administrators then contacted Mr S directly to ask if he wanted the transfer 
to continue. He asked Abacus for guidance and it told him that he should confirm with the 
scheme that he wanted the transfer to proceed, which he did. He then emailed Abacus and 
said that, after speaking with the DC scheme administrators he thought his funds might need 
to be transferred into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). In March 2022 Abacus told 
him that the transfer advice was unchanged. But that Abacus would ask the DC scheme to 
leave the funds in cash so that they could then be transferred to a named SIPP provider  
who Ill call R. It said that by doing that Mr S wouldnt be exposing the TFC element to 
market volatility and once hed taken that he could reinvest the remainder.
On 5 April 2022 Abacus told Mr S that it had sent him a report concerning a transfer to R (I 
haven't been given a copy of this report).
That month Mr S told Abacus that the DC scheme had advised him if he transferred his DB 
funds into the DC pension then he wouldn't be able to take his TFC from it. That is, he would 
need to access all his pension benefits at the same time, which would involve him buying an 
annuity. His other option was to transfer out of the DC scheme completely. Abacus then 
made enquiries of the DC scheme administrators to see if taking TFC would affect Mr S 
membership of that scheme. The administrators replied the next day. Abacus sought 
clarification of its answer. In the meantime the DB scheme administrators asked Abacus for 
confirmation the transfer was going ahead.
In May 2022 Mr S wrote to Abacus expressing his concerns about the lack of progress. 
Abacus replied that it was seeking information from the DC scheme to see if he could make 
a partial transfer  of his TFC  out of it. But it said it had secured the CETV figure.
1 This is a flexible method of taking pension income. It allows the pension holder to take sums from 
their pension pot as and when they wish to, leaving the remaining pot invested.After a further update from Abacus about outstanding enquiries with the DC scheme, on 
28 May 2022, Mr S asked why the DC scheme was involved as he believed the funds would 
be transferred to R.
After a phone discussion with Abacus in June 2022 it confirmed that Mr S would be unable 
to take a partial transfer from the DC scheme. It suggested Mr S should ask for a new CETV 
and take things from there. Around a fortnight later, after Mr S had asked for a new CETV, 
he emailed Abacus. He said the DB scheme administrators had phoned him to ask if the 
transfer to the DC scheme was going ahead. He told them that was not happening.
On 27 July 2022 the DB scheme administrators provided a new CETV, the value was around 
£445,000.
On 31 July 2022 Mr S wrote to Abacus to complain. He said it had been his intention from 
the start to take TFC. But Abacus had recommended he transfer his DB funds into his DC 
scheme which wouldn't allow him to take TFC. He said hed recently received a revised 
CETV and the value had dropped by £146,000 from the original figure to around £445,000. 
He said hed spoken to Abacus but, unlike when the CETV had reduced in December 2021, 
on this occasion Abacus had refused to make up the shortfall.
Abacus replied. Its lengthy response included that regulations required it to see if Mr S 
workplace (DC) pension was appropriate to receive a transfer and that Mr S had not 
indicated that this wouldn't be suitable. It said it hadn't been happy with Mr S suggestion at 
the outset to take his TFC and leave it to sit as cash in his bank. It also said that Mr S 
decision to end the process on 19 January 2022 had caused some of the issues he was 
complaining about.
Abacus added that it had made a number of unanswered enquiries about whether Mr S 
could take a partial transfer from the DC scheme. And it wanted to go ahead with that 
transfer as that would secure the CETV figure. But after Mr S told the DB scheme 
administrators the transfer was no longer going ahead that had ended the process. It said an 
alternative would have been to allow the transfer to go ahead into the DC scheme; Mr S 
could then have transferred out of that and then re-joined the DC scheme. Abacus didnt 
think it was responsible for any fall in the CETV figure and hadn't caused Mr S to suffer a 
loss. It said he still had full entitlement to his DB scheme benefits. But, it did agree that its 
administration hadn't been perfect so it offered Mr S £500 by way of redress.
Mr S brought his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators looked into it. He thought 
Abacus offer to settle the complaint was reasonable. Mr S didnt agree so its been passed 
to me to decide.
Having reviewed the file I noted that some of the evidence Abacus had sent to us had 
corrupted and I was unable to read it. I asked it to resupply that evidence. I also asked it to 
provide me with notes of any meetings or phone calls. While Abacus sent us the previously 
corrupted evidence, despite a second request it didnt ever send me copies of meeting or 
telephone notes. While that is disappointing, and I think that evidence would have been 
helpful, Im satisfied I have enough information on which to reach a fair and reasonable 
conclusion without it.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in replying to it both Mr S and Abacus have made a number of 
points. I've considered everything on file but in this decision I dont intend to address each 
and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart 
of Mr S complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. Having done so its likely Ill uphold the complaint.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Abacuss actions here.
PRIN 3: A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Should Abacus have completed the transfer initially?
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are often considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) from other pension products available on the open market. 
Transferring from a DB scheme is a complex process. And, once a consumer has 
transferred theres no going back  the benefits are lost forever. So advising firms like 
Abacus need to be satisfied that a transfer is in a consumers best interests before making 
that recommendation.
There are typically a number of stages involved in the DB transfer process. As well as 
gathering information from Mr S, Abacus had to request evidence from the DB scheme 
administrators, obtain an APTA, including a TVC, analyse Mr S needs and objectives in 
retirement and consider an appropriate alternative pension arrangement.
Having taken those steps Abacus could make a personal recommendation which it needed 
to set out in writing before taking Mr S instruction about what he wanted to do. Abacus went through all those stages initially and, while those things all took time, Ive seen no evidence 
of any unreasonable delay by Abacus in the initial evidence gathering and analysis process.
But, by the time it had produced its suitability report, Abacus had only one day left before the 
CETV guarantee expired. But it was still in a position to secure the CETV and arrange the 
transfer for Mr S.
However, because it omitted to include some of the information the DB scheme needed the 
CETV expired. Had that not happened it seems likely that the transfer would have 
progressed. Although, as I describe below, given what happened later its possible that the 
transfer might not have completed if Mr S learned of the limitations of the DC scheme before 
the transfer had gone ahead.
However, I can understand that, at that time, Mr S must have been disappointed by the 
failure of the transfer. He was expecting it to go ahead and to give him access to a 
considerable TFC sum. But because of Abacus mistake that didnt happen. Thats said, I 
think Abacus took reasonable steps to put things right at that time. It requested a new CETV 
and paid the fee for that. It also offered to make up any shortfall should the CETV have 
reduced. I think that was a reasonable response at the time. So I've gone on to consider 
what happened after that.
Was Abacus recommendation to transfer to the DC scheme appropriate?
Once the revised CETV arrived in January 2022 it had increased by over £15,000. And given 
that Abacus had already gone through all the other steps, arranging the transfer should have 
been a straightforward process. In fact, Abacus sent off the forms to secure the CETV on 
18 January 2022. But before that process was completed Mr S learned of a potential 
problem with transferring his funds into his workplace DC scheme. That was, the rules of the 
scheme would not allow him to take his TFC separately. The DC scheme would let him take 
TFC and use the remaining funds to by an annuity. But hed have to do that at the same 
time. The only other option for him was to transfer all of his funds out of the DC scheme into 
another personal pension or SIPP. That would mean leaving the DC scheme in its entirety, 
which wasnt something Mr S wanted to do.
When making a personal recommendation to transfer out of a DB scheme COBS 
19.1.1C(2)(a) required Abacus to determine which alternative arrangement was suitable for 
Mr S. And that included an analysis of how Mr S wanted to take his funds from it.
Mr S had clearly said from the outset that he wanted to use his TFC immediately. And 
Abacus had itself noted that he intended to take it straightaway. Further its suitability report 
says that one of the reasons for its recommendation was that it would allow Mr S to access 
his TFC to pursue his interest in property development. But the DC scheme didnt allow for 
that. So it wasn't suitable for Mr S requirements at the time.
In response to our enquiries Abacus suggested that taking TFC straightaway wasnt 
important to Mr S until after it had secured the CETV sum. It implied that only happened 
because a property development opportunity arose. So it said Mr S objectives had changed.
But I don't accept that argument. As I've said above the evidence is clear that Mr S had 
always wanted to access his TFC soon after the transfer, although he didnt appear to have 
any definite plans for it at the time he initially approached Abacus.
I'm aware that Abacus didnt think Mr S should take the TFC straightaway and leave it sitting 
uninvested in cash, which Mr S seems to have accepted at the time. But the evidence shows 
that Abacus was working under the misapprehension that Mr S could take his TFC from his DC scheme and leave the rest of the funds invested. But the DC scheme rules didnt allow 
that.
I say that because, while noting the DC scheme didnt allow flexi-access drawdown Abacus 
said in its suitability report that Mr S would be able to take TFC and that he could transfer to 
a flexi drawdown arrangement at a later date. Also, once Mr S raised the issue of not being 
able to access TFC without transferring out of the DC scheme entirely, Abacus spent some 
weeks seeking clarification from the DC scheme administrators about whether or not Mr S 
could do that. Abacus clearly believed he could but he couldnt. This is something that 
Abacus should have found out before making the recommendation to transfer into the DC 
scheme. If it had done the appropriate research at the outset it would have realised that the 
DC scheme didnt fit with Mr S objectives and so didnt meet his needs. And I dont accept 
Abacus arguments that this only became an issue after a property development opportunity 
came Mr S way. It was something he always wanted to do, so I dont believe his objectives 
changed.
Further, after Mr S raised the issue, Abacus then began exploring whether he could transfer 
into a SIPP. This is something Mr S says was discussed at the outset. So it's not clear to me 
why Abacus chose to recommend the DC scheme rather than a SIPP. Although it might well 
have been because a SIPP would likely have charged Mr S higher fees. But A SIPP or 
similar arrangement would have met Mr S requirements both to allow him to take his TFC 
immediately but also to access his funds in a flexible way, when the DC scheme didnt. And 
Abacus told us that it had asked the DB administrators if it could change the recipient 
pension destination of the transfer to a SIPP but they wouldn't allow it without Mr S having 
received a new CETV. So, if Abacus had recommended the SIPP in the first place it seems 
likely that the transfer would have gone ahead. But it didnt because of Abacus unsuitable 
recommendation.
Abacus told us that it had to consider whether the DC scheme was a suitable arrangement 
to transfer Mr S DB funds into. I agree thats the case. But the DC scheme plainly wasnt 
suitable. It didnt offer flexi access drawdown, which Abacus said was one of the advantages 
of making the transfer. Also Mr S couldnt access his TFC funds from the DC scheme 
without transferring to another arrangement altogether and losing his ongoing benefits from 
the DC scheme. I think Abacus should have been aware of that. So it shouldn't have 
recommended the DC scheme for the transfer in the first place.
Abacus also said the reason that the transfer didnt happen was because of Mr S actions in 
telling the DB scheme administrators that it wasnt going ahead. It said that, in taking that 
action, he lost the secured CETV sum. I accept that Mr S telling the DB scheme that he 
didnt want the transfer to go ahead brought the process to an end at that point. But I think 
Abacus action had forced Mr S into this. It had recommended transferring his pension to a 
scheme that wasn't suitable for his needs. He could have allowed that to go ahead, but in 
order to access the benefits from it, he would then have needed to leave his DC scheme. 
Something he didnt want to do. So when the DB scheme administrators phoned and asked 
him if the transfer was going ahead to the DC scheme he said it wasnt. That seems an 
entirely reasonable answer in the circumstances. And I've seen no evidence that Abacus 
had previously warned him of the implication of taking this action. In fact, at that time, it had 
told him to sit tight and wait for the new CETV which hed recently asked for. And it had sent 
him a report concerning transferring into a SIPP. So I can understand that Mr S wouldnt 
have realised the potential repercussions of telling the DB scheme that the transfer to the 
DC scheme wasnt going ahead.
The only way Mr S could have transferred at that time would have been if hed allowed it to 
go to the DC scheme. And in order to take TFC or access the benefits flexibly he would have 
been required to transfer out of the DC scheme in its entirety. Mr S told us that would involve him losing privileges from his employer. And I can understand why he didnt want to do that. 
But he was only put in that position because Abacus recommendation to transfer to his DC 
scheme wasnt suitable for him. So I don't think Abacus dealt with him fairly and reasonably 
here. I've gone on to consider the implications of that.
Did Mr S lose out because of Abacus actions?
I'm aware that Mr S thinks that, on two occasions, Abacuss mistakes caused him to lose 
out. First when Abacus didnt send all the required paperwork in November 2021; second, as 
described above, when it made an unsuitable recommendation for the destination of his 
funds. And, during that process, his CETV had fallen in value by around £146,000. But that 
doesn't mean that Mr S is out of pocket.
As I've said above a DB scheme membership is a valuable resource. The member will 
receive a guaranteed, risk free and increasing pension from when they take it until they die. 
And, as I've said above, those benefits are difficult to match. For example when Abacus 
calculated a TVC it showed that buying equivalent benefits to the DB scheme on the open 
market could cost Mr S an additional £209,450. That is over 35% more than the value of his 
DB scheme. But, as the transfer didnt go ahead Mr S retained his DB scheme benefits.
While the CETV changed, that doesn't mean his DB scheme benefits are worth any less, it 
simply means that the market rates used to calculate the CETVs have altered. And that is 
why CETVs are only usually guaranteed for three months, because their value changes in 
line with movements in the financial markets. But, a fall in CETV sum is not the same as a 
fall in the worth of his DB scheme benefits. And Mr S remains a member of the DB scheme, 
so he hasn't lost out in terms of his retirement income.
That said I understand that Mr S has lost out on the opportunity to transfer his DB scheme 
funds and access those flexibly at a time when the markets were favourable to CETV rates. 
And that meant that he could have taken a higher TFC sum. So I can understand his 
immense disappointment that he wasnt able to take that opportunity because of Abacus 
errors. So I've thought about what Abacus needs to do to put things right below. However, Ill 
first address another of Mr S complaint points.
Mr S' personal information
When he complained Mr S pointed out that in January 2022 Abacus had mistakenly posted 
his personal information to an individual entirely unconnected with him. The person 
concerned phoned Mr S to say that shed received that information and Mr S was able to 
recover it. While this Service is not the appropriate body to rule on whether this constitutes a 
data breach, Abacus appears to accept that this was a data breach. But I note that Abacus 
chose not to address this point at all when it responded to the complaint.
Mr S told us Abacus had informed him that, because of the data breach, it would refer the 
matter to its regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). We asked Abacus if it had done either of those things. It told us 
that, as Mr S personal information hadn't made it into the public domain, it didnt think the 
data breach was serious enough to warrant referral to another body. It added that it had 
learned lessons from the incident.
It's not for me to decide which matters require reporting to the FCA or ICO. But I think that as 
a minimum Abacus should have written to Mr S to apologise for the incident and to explain to 
him what action it had taken to prevent a recurrence of the incident. It should have also let 
him know that it didnt intend to refer the matter to the FCA or ICO. That could have allowed Mr S to consider his options, including making a referral to the ICO himself if he wanted to. 
And that is still a course of action open to him if he wishes to pursue it.
Putting things right
I can understand Mr S suffered frustration and exasperation as a result of Abacus mistakes. 
But as Ive said, he remains a member of his DB scheme and so I dont think hes lost out 
financially. But he has undoubtedly suffered a significant loss of expectation. He wanted 
access to an increased amount of TFC to allow him to engage in property development. He 
thought hed achieve that higher TFC figure by engaging Abacus services. And he paid it a 
fee of £6,000 in order to enable that. But, because of the mistakes I've set out above that 
didnt happen and Mr S will need to rethink his plans.
Mr S paid for a service that wasnt fit for purpose and ultimately wasnt of any benefit to him. 
And in those circumstances I dont think it was fair for Abacus to retain its fee. So I think it 
should repay Mr S the £6,000 he paid to it. And, as hes been without the use of that money 
since then, it should add simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date 
Mr S paid the fee to the date Abacus refunds him.
Additionally, its clear from Mr S correspondence that hes found the whole process 
immensely upsetting and that he still believes he has suffered a loss. And the matter has 
dragged on for an extended period of time. In order to put things right I think Abacus should 
pay Mr S £750 compensation in total to address this.
Developments 
Mr S made a number of points in response to my provisional decision. Amongst other things 
he said he believed hed lost out considerably because of Abacus actions. He said the 
scheme benefits and those available from a transfer are vastly different. His choice was that 
transferring had more to offer. And, if hed intended to take the scheme benefits he had no 
reason to engage Abacus in the first place. 
Mr S added that in 2021 his CETV was over £600,000, with TFC of around £150,000. The 
scheme would offer TFC of around £92,000, a difference of around £58,000. He said the 
difference was staggering. He said the TFC sum on offer from transferring was life 
changing. He added that hes lost the opportunity to reinvest it as he wished, which would 
see the potential for it to grow by 10% a year. 
Mr S said that remaining in the scheme would result in him paying tax on that income as he 
intends to keep working. But if the transfer had gone ahead he could have reinvested the 
balance after the TFC to hopefully grow until he needed it without paying tax on it. Abacus 
had told him that his funds, if reinvested, would last the remainder of his life. 
Mr S also said that Abacus stood to lose little from my decision. And he believed he was due 
considerable compensation. He questioned whether the schemes annuity figures had 
been made available to me previously.
Abacus also gave its comments on my provisional decision.
Amongst other things it asked why I had referred to PRIN 3  regarding adequate systems. It 
said it had adequate systems in place and while it had made mistakes it had addressed 
those.In terms of PRIN 6 which says A firm must pay due regard to its customers and treat them 
fairly; Abacus said this needs to be balanced against the risk of consumer detriment. It 
said I hadn't quoted any of the rules from the FCAs Finalised Guidance FG21/3.
Referring to that guidance (FG21/3), Abacus quoted where it points out that the DB transfer 
advice process should be a two stage one. Those being: whether to give up safeguarded 
benefits; and where to transfer the funds to if the transfer proceeds.
FG21/3 says the two are not separate and advising firms fees should not be contingent on 
the advice going ahead. 
Abacus added the fee it charged was for its advice and not for the implementation of the 
transfer. It said it was required to consider if Mr S DC scheme was suitable and only 
recommend an alternative where that was more suitable. It said the DC administrators 
replies to Abacus queries were confusing, and they still hadnt been adequately answered 
by the time Mr S cancelled the transfer. So Abacus couldnt know whether an alternative 
arrangement was more suitable and so wasnt required to recommend one.  
In terms of PRIN 7 Abacus said it had always been clear and fair with Mr S.
Abacus added that my award of a refund of its fee didnt reflect the aspects of its service 
which it provided adequately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Abacus and Mr S provided a number of comments on my provisional decision. Ive 
briefly summarised those above. I don't intend to address each and every point individually. 
Instead I will address those that further explain the reasons for my decision 
Abacus remarks 
Abacus commented on my referring to some of the rules, regulations and requirements that 
I considered. Ill explain that my determination isn't limited to considering those I specifically 
set out. And, as I've said above, I refer to those to give context to the types of information 
I consider when arriving at my decision. And those will generally apply to decisions that 
I dont uphold as well as the ones I do. 
That said, Abacus asked why I referred to PRIN 3: A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively with adequate risk management 
systems. Abacus sent Mr S personal information to an individual who had no connection 
with him. So, I thought it was a relevant consideration when considering the impact of this on 
Mr S. 
Referring to PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to its customers and treat them fairly. 
Abacus said that had to be balanced against consumer detriment. But it hasn't explained 
what it means by this or how it applies to this case. 
In the same context Abacus added that I hadn't quoted from FG21/3. As I expand on below, 
Abacus did refer to some specific paragraphs from FG21/3, but it didnt put these into the 
context of how they applied to PRIN 6. And I think PRIN 6, along with the clients best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1R), are overarching principals and rules that apply to almost every 
pension transaction. So they paint the picture of the approach firms should adopt when 
advising consumers on something as important as a DB transfer. 
Further, it might help if I explain that FG21/3 is an ancillary guide for the use of advising 
firms like Abacus. It was developed to assist them understand how to apply the regulators 
Handbook rules and guidance (PRIN and COBS) when giving DB transfer advice. FG21/3 
intended to help firms identify weaknesses in their existing processes. And, while it is 
undoubtedly a useful resource it doesn't actually set out the rules that apply. So, I'm not 
under any obligation to refer to it when explaining the reasons for my decision. 
Abacus referred explicitly to guidance from FG21/3 about the stages involved in giving DB 
transfer advice. Those are about the suitability of that process; not about what the outcome 
would be at the end. Abacus said it charged its fee on that basis. However, in this case, 
having decided that a transfer was suitable for Mr S Abacus was then required to 
recommend a suitable alternative arrangement for the destination of those funds. As I've 
said above in making that recommendation Abacus needed to consider how Mr S intended 
to access his funds. It knew Mr S wanted to access his TFC immediately. But the DC 
pension it recommended didnt allow him to do that. So it wasn't suitable for him. And he 
couldnt then draw down funds as he wanted, which was one of Abacus reasons for saying 
that the transfer was suitable initially. 
Abacus said that because some of the DC scheme administrators answers were unclear, it 
couldnt be sure that Mr S might be better off in an alternative arrangement to the DC 
scheme. But if it didnt know what flexible options the DC scheme offered then I dont think 
Abacus had appropriately researched its suitability for Mr S needs. And in those 
circumstances I don't think it should have recommended it as a destination for the transfer of 
funds. If Abacus had done the appropriate investigation at the outset before providing its 
suitability report, then it would have realised the DC scheme wasnt a suitable destination for 
Mr S DB funds. But it didnt do the appropriate investigation and so made an unsuitable 
recommendation. 
I appreciate that, as set out above, DB transfer advice is a multi-stage process including 
considering both the suitability of a transfer for the customers need, and the suitability of the 
proposed alternative arrangement. But in this case, because of Abacus failures in identifying 
a suitable receiving arrangement, by the time the matter had concluded, the CETV had fallen 
to such a level that the DB transfer was now unsuitable at all stages. That was a situation 
that arose because of Abacus errors. And as such the entirety of its advice process wasnt 
fit for purpose. So, I think its reasonable that Abacus refunds Mr S his fee and adds simple 
interest to that refund as set out below.
Abacus also referred to PRIN 7: communication is clear, fair and not misleading. Abacus 
said it was always clear and fair with Mr S. I'll remind Abacus that we twice asked it for 
copies of meeting notes and telephone calls but it didnt provide those. So I can't know to 
what extent it met this principal. But I have seen that on a number of occasions it seemed to 
deflect blame for its own errors on to Mr S. For example, it said the problems he 
encountered were in part because he told Abacus, on 19 January 2022 that he'd had second 
thoughts. However, while that wasn't ideal, he told Abacus the next day that he did want to 
go ahead and the process picked up again instantly. I've seen no evidence that this short 
pause in proceedings in any way influenced Abacus to make an unsuitable recommendation 
for the destination of his funds.Similarly, Abacus also suggested the reason the DC scheme was unsuitable was because 
Mr S had changed his objectives. But, as I said in my provisional decision the evidence was 
clear that Mr S had always wanted immediate access to his TFC. So I still think this was a 
mistake made by Abacus. And I dont think its communication with Mr S has always been 
clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr S comments
I'm grateful to Mr S for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. I do understand 
that keeping a DB scheme entitlement is not the same as accessing benefits from a flexible 
alternative.
But, as I've said above, the starting point for advising firms when considering a transfer is 
that it isn't suitable. And, generally, the reasons for that are because the benefits available 
from a DB scheme are far more valuable to consumers than those from flexible alternatives. 
DB schemes are essentially risk free to consumers. Scheme members benefits are 
guaranteed, index linked and increasing for the remainder of their lives once they start taking 
an income from it. 
In contrast, flexible personal pensions and SIPPs rely on investment growth. So any funds 
invested in a flexible alternative is subject to the volatilities of the investment markets. And 
growth is not only far from guaranteed, those investments are at risk of suffering losses. 
And, if theres a market crash or a sustained period of poor performance, then investments 
might not only lose spending power against inflation but have less value then when initially 
invested, giving less security to the pension holder in retirement.
Further there are other risks associated with drawdown pension products. For example the 
consumer needs to have the discipline to leave their funds untouched and only take out what 
they require, rather than to give in to temptation to access what might be very large sums 
available to them immediately. And if consumers yield to that temptation and take large 
sums from their pensions in the early years, then they face the very real prospect of 
withdrawing their funds too early and being worse off as a result. 
Indeed the regulator has said in FG21/3 that many consumers see access to CETV sums as 
like a lottery win. And some consumers will see obtaining lump sums today as of more value 
than an income stream in the future, when that may not be the case. This is why the 
regulator introduced TVCs. Those offer individuals the opportunity to see at first hand the 
relevant worth of an income stream against a CETV figure. In Mr S case the TVC indicated 
his DB benefits were worth over £209,000 more than his CETV. And I think most people 
would consider that a fairly large sum. But that was what Mr S was potentially giving up by 
transferring.
So, I don't think hes worse off because the transfer didnt go ahead. In saying that I can 
confirm I have seen Mr S yearly entitlements from his DB Scheme, which he referred to as 
an annuity. But I think it's worth repeating that his yearly income would increase each and 
every year in line with the relevant indexation. Something that can't be guaranteed from an 
investment pension product or indeed from buying a conventional annuity. And Im satisfied 
he hasnt suffered an actual financial loss here because he didnt transfer out of his DB 
scheme  hes retained those benefits.
That said I do understand that, TFC aside, if Mr S takes his regular income from the DB 
scheme then he will have to pay tax on that. But, he would also have had to pay tax on the 
75% of his remaining CETV (other than the TFC) when he decided to draw down funds from that. And that tax would continue to directly deplete his funds once invested, whereas, tax 
taken at source from his DB scheme doesn't affect his remaining pension entitlement going 
forward. 
However, I do recognise Mr S disappointment and frustration that he couldn't access his 
funds in the manner he believed would be most beneficial for him. For example by investing 
it in property or other ventures as hed hoped. But I took that into account when I awarded 
compensation of £750 in my provisional decision. I also said that Abacus should refund 
Mr S' fee of £6,000 and add interest to that sum. And while recognising Mr S strength of 
feeling, I'm satisfied Ive awarded appropriate redress in the circumstances. Ill add that 
compensation payments aren't intended to penalise or punish the firm involved. Instead it is 
tangible redress for the distress and inconvenience the consumer, in this case Mr S, 
suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. I require Abacus Money Management 
Ltd to:
Refund Mr S the £6,000 advice fee plus interest at a gross rate of 8% simple (less 
tax if properly deductible) from the date he paid the fee to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman