DRN-3436998
The complaint
Ms R complains about the service she received from NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) when 
she tried to extend the payment freeze on her account with them.
What happened
Ms R holds a credit card account with Aqua. A payment freeze had been agreed by Aqua on 
Ms Rs account as her income had reduced due to the impact of the global pandemic. The 
payment freeze was due to expire in mid-February 2021.
Ms R contacted Aqua in early January 2021 using their secure digital messaging service. 
She wanted them to extend the payment freeze for a further three months. Aqua said Ms R 
needed to contact them nearer to the expiry date of the existing arrangement.
Ms R contacted Aqua again using the same system towards the end of January. She asked 
them when she should apply for the extension. Aqua said she could message back one day 
before expiry.
Ms R messaged Aqua a week before expiry of her existing payment freeze. During various 
message exchanges, Ms R says she was repeatedly asked the same questions by different 
agents and often transferred back into the digital messaging queue. She also said she didnt 
receive notifications of Aquas responses. This led to her becoming distressed and frustrated 
as she was concerned matters wouldnt be resolved before the existing arrangement 
expired. 
Aqua confirmed agreement to the payment freeze extension three days later. But when Ms 
R checked her account, the payment freeze wasnt showing. She messaged Aqua again, 
four days later to point this out to them. Aqua agreed the freeze hadnt been applied and 
confirmed this would be rectified.
When Ms R checked the following day, the freeze was still not showing on her account. 
Having messaged Aqua a further time, they confirmed it had definitely been applied to her 
account.
Ms R wasnt happy with the service shed received so messaged Aqua at the end of 
February for an email address to complain. Aqua told her there was no email address but 
they could raise a complaint using their messaging service. Ms R ultimately raised her 
complaint in early March using a third-party website service. Aqua responded to Ms Rs 
complaint in May 2021. They apologised if the standard of service received didnt meet her 
expectations and by way of an apology, paid £30 into her account. 
Ms R wasnt happy with the apology amount paid and said Aqua had recorded a marker on 
her credit file while they investigated her complaint. She said this had adversely impacted 
her credit score with the credit reference agencies. She asked this service to investigate her 
complaint further.
Our adjudicator thought Aqua hadnt acted fairly and Ms R had been caused unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience throughout her experience. Our adjudicator also thought there 
may have been adverse consequences had Ms R not pointed out to Aqua that the new 
freeze hadnt been applied. He thought Aqua should pay further compensation of £100 to Ms 
R.
Aqua didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. They said Ms R didnt have to repeat 
herself throughout the various messages and their agents had access to previous message 
details. They said the questions asked were reasonable and the failure to set up the 
payment freeze was resolved quickly, once highlighted. They didnt agree they should pay 
further compensation for what might have happened.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Rs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
I reached a different outcome to that of our adjudicator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 14 April 2022  giving both Ms R and Aqua the opportunity to 
respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
There appear to be various options available for consumers to contact Aqua to 
discuss their accounts. Aquas website says contact can be made online, using their 
smart device app, by telephone or by post. This is Aquas chosen contact policy and 
process. It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter its procedures or 
processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. 
These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and 
reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the 
individual circumstances of Ms Rs experience with them. It appears Ms R chose to 
communicate with Aqua using their secure digital messaging service due to her own 
circumstances.
During the course of the various message exchanges, Aqua made it clear that it 
wasnt an instant messaging service, so there could be response delays. Ms R would 
receive notifications of any new messages on her smart device, provided her 
notification settings had been appropriately set. The service also isnt available 24 
hours a day  their message opening hours were frequently displayed during 
message exchanges. 
Ive been provided with, and reviewed, copies of all the message exchanges in 
relation to this complaint. Ms R says she was asked the same questions repeatedly 
as part of her payment freeze extension application. Like many such services, 
messages are routed through an automated help system first. This operates as a 
gate keeper system and helps identify the nature of a query so that it can be directed 
appropriately. The only repeated questions Ive seen appear to relate to this initial 
help system. So, I dont think its unreasonable that these questions might be 
repeated each time.
Ive noticed there were a number of occasions where Aqua sent a response to Ms R. 
But she sometimes didnt respond either before Aquas agent completed their work 
shift, or before the message system closed for the day. On those occasions, Aqua 
told Ms R that the conversation would either be closed or rerouted to the main queue. 
But Ms R always had the ability to respond and the conversation would then be 
reactivated and assigned to an appropriate agent. There were also occasions where 
Ms R sent messages outside of the systems normal operating hours. I can see Aqua 
did always respond to these.
The key issue here appears to relate to Ms R not receiving notifications when Aqua 
posted messages. Aqua said theyre not aware of any ongoing issues with 
notifications. Ms R said the notification settings were set correctly on her smart 
device. Based upon what Ive seen, I cant reasonably hold Aqua responsible for Ms 
R not receiving these notifications.When Aqua agreed the payment freeze extension, it wasnt initially applied. Ms R 
identified this and informed Aqua. It appears Aqua acted promptly and corrected their 
mistake. And following Ms Rs complaint, they apologised and paid her £30. 
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not 
be considered so by another. Ms R did experience some inconvenience. But I think 
the amount paid feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate Ms R doesnt 
agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise Aqua for 
their mistake here. Compensation is also not appropriate for something that might 
have happened. It can only be considered based upon the actual impact Aquas 
mistake had upon Ms R. And I think Aquas offer does that here. 
Ms R also believes that Aquas actions negatively impacted her credit score. Aqua 
recorded a query marker which is commonly used where there is a dispute or 
outstanding query about an account. They are usually removed once matters are 
resolved. Credit score systems consider many different factors. I cant reasonably 
conclude that the change Ms R saw in her credit score was as a direct consequence 
of anything Aqua did. 
Ms R says Aqua didnt acknowledge her complaint and she hasnt received any 
compensation. I can see that Aqua acknowledged her complaint by email via the 
third-party complaint site she used on the day it was submitted. I also note that 
Aquas final response letter states £30 was credited to her account. If this is not the 
case, I recommend Ms R raise this with Aqua.
I want to reassure Ms R that I do appreciate she was clearly frustrated by her 
experience of Aquas digital messaging system. I also realise she will be 
disappointed, but I cant reasonably say that Aqua acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here. I also think Aqua acted appropriately and promptly when they corrected their 
mistake. So, I shant be asking them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Aqua responded to say they did not wish to add any further information.
Ms R didnt agree with my provisional decision for the following reasons:
Ms Rs poor health at the time of the incident hasnt been considered; and
Aqua caused distress and anxiety by failing to follow through on her requests; and
the distress caused by Aqua couldve led to more serious health problems; and
more serious health issues meant Ms R would be unable to prevent a disastrous 
situation spiraling with her finances due to personal circumstances; and
Ms R chose the most communication method most appropriate for her 
circumstances; and
Aqua didnt resolve her payment deferral issue quickly as she had to chase it twice; 
and
Aquas actions put Ms Rs her finances, mental health and credit score in harms 
way.Ive considered Ms Rs further comments very carefully. Much of these refer to potential 
consequences, and while I appreciate Ms Rs strength of feeling, I did explain in my 
provisional decision that I can only consider what actually happened.
I also feel Ive explained how Aquas digital messaging service operates. When Ms R 
requested an extension of the payment freeze, Aqua had a responsibility to obtain more 
detailed information from her before agreeing to this. So, this meant that her request needed 
to be passed to a specialist agent at Aqua. But a specialist agent wasnt always immediately 
available. I cant reasonably say that Aqua were at fault here. At the time, demand for this 
type of support was very high. So, its not unreasonable to expect there might be some 
delays. 
Having reviewed all the messaging transcripts, it appears Ms R wasnt always available 
when Aqua responded, or she didnt receive their notifications. I certainly dont suggest Ms R 
was responsible for that. But as Ive already mentioned, Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
Aqua were directly responsible for Ms R not receiving those notifications either.
Once Aqua agreed the payment freeze extension, I accept Ms R contacted them twice when 
the freeze wasnt showing on her account. On the first occasion, it was clear Aqua were at 
fault. Theyve accepted this and paid compensation. But on the second occasion, Aqua did 
confirm the freeze had definitely been applied, albeit it wasnt yet showing for Ms R to see. 
So, I cant reasonably say Aqua had done anything further wrong.
I do appreciate Ms Rs disappointment. Accepting she doesnt agree, Ive not been provided 
with anything that persuades me to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman