DRN-3774253
The complaint
Mr R complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his current and credit card 
accounts without explanation. Mr R also complains Barclays should not have linked him to a 
business account for which he is a director, nor shared data in this way. And Barclays made 
it difficult for him to withdraw his funds.  
Mr R wants Barclays to compensate him for the trouble and upset its caused. 
What happened
Mr R is a director of a company. The companys complaint has been decided under a 
different reference number at this service. This decision only deals with Mr Rs complaint 
about his current and credit card accounts - held in his capacity as a private individual.  
In December 2021, following an internal review, Barclays wrote to Mr R and said it would be 
closing all his accounts with immediate effect. In doing so, it withheld Mr Rs funds. Mr R 
says this matter has caused him substantive distress. 
Around three weeks later, in January 2022, Mr R attended a Barclays branch and withdrew 
his remaining funds. 
Unhappy with Barclays actions, Mr R complained. In its response and in summary, Barclays 
said: 
- It has carefully considered its decision to close Mr Rs account, which has been 
subject to a strict internal review process 
- Each account is reviewed on a case-by-case basis, and its unable to provide Mr R 
with information on the guidelines used 
- Its decision to close Mr Rs account(s) was correct 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into his 
complaint. 
Mr R told our Investigator he did have another bank account with another provider when his 
Barclays current account was closed. He also said Barclays refused to transfer his remaining 
funds to his other account. 
But instead they gave it to him in cash after four attempts, as he was first asked for one 
identity proof, then two, and then later he was told he needed to provide pay slips. He said 
this led to multiple visits, meaning he had to take time off work  causing him inconvenience 
and further distress. Mr R says his other third-party bank charged him for depositing cash.  
After looking into Mr Rs complaint, our Investigator sent Mr R and Barclays their findings. In 
summary they found: 
- Barclays decision to close Mr Rs accounts with immediate effect was reasonable 
and in line with its legal and regulatory obligations 
- Barclays doesnt have to give Mr R a reason for closing his accounts 
- Barclays didnt breach Mr Rs privacy or date by closing his personal accounts on the 
same basis as the business account he is a director of  
- Barclays told Mr R he could withdraw his funds in December 2021 when notifying him 
of its decision to close his accounts 
- Mr R withdrew his funds on 21 January 2022, and they havent seen any evidence he 
encountered any problems in doing so 
Mr R did not agree and asked for his complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint him, 
so Ill explain why. 
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is 
information we consider should be kept confidential.
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having seen Barclays reasons for carrying out a review of Mr Rs accounts, Im satisfied it 
acted in line with the legal and regulatory obligations it must follow. 
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Barclays closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Mr R had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances it 
can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Barclays, and the concerns it had, Im not 
clear why it didnt give Mr R two months notice. Im mindful of not making any finding on a 
separate complaint here, where Mr R was a director of a business. But in that matter 
Barclays gave two months notice. 
But given Mr R had another account with a different bank, Im persuaded he didnt suffer any 
detriment by Barclays decision to close the accounts immediately. Given Im also 
considering Mr Rs credit card account here, and as hes not said hes suffered any loss on 
that other than it being closed, Im persuaded Barclays acted fairly. A credit card after all 
allows Mr R to spend money that he is effectively borrowing, and that is always at Barclays 
discretion. I note Barclays notice of closure letter sets out what Mr R needs to take to a branch to 
withdraw his funds. Barclays internal records, which Ive been given, dont show there were 
any issues with Mr R obtaining his money in the way he has described. But even if he did 
have to make multiple branch visits in the way he says, I can see he was told to bring the 
documents in the closure letter. So I dont think Barclays have likely done anything wrong 
here. 
Mr R would like a reason for why Barclays closed his accounts. Neither Barclays, nor I, are 
under any obligation, that Im aware of, to do so. 
Mr R says Barclays have acted improperly by using information from a third-party entity in 
deciding to close his accounts. As Ive said, Im not obligated to give Mr R a reason for why 
Barclays took the actions it did  so I wont be speaking directly to this point. But, broadly 
speaking, Barclays needs to ensure it follows its regulatory and legal obligations. Which 
means it must act appropriately, and properly, on any pertinent information it has.
Mr R says this matter has caused him substantive distress and inconvenience. I do 
appreciate this matter wouldve caused him some difficulty. But having looked at whats 
happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
Barclays given I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it closed 
Mr Rs accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman