DRN-3657966
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Lady Grovers Hospital Fund for Officers Families (LGH) because it 
no longer offers an insurance-based policy.
What happened
Mr W had private medical insurance with LGH. He took the policy out over 30 years ago, 
however in January 2021, LGH became a discretionary fund, which meant the scope of 
cover had changed. Mr W said LGH had unfairly changed the insurance product hed initially 
opted to take out. He said the scope of cover had been significantly reduced and because of 
LGHs actions, hed like for it to refund all the premiums hed paid since he took the policy. 
Mr W worked this out to be around £1,000.
LGH said it consulted with its members prior to making the change. It said that funding the 
original policy had become unmanageable and that had it not made these changes, then it 
wouldve likely had to stop trading and dissolve the company altogether  meaning thered 
be no cover for any of its members. LGH said it also consulted with the relevant third parties, 
including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). LGH said it shared with the FCA its 
intention to become a discretionary fund and that there were no objections in response to its 
plans.
Our investigator agreed that LGH hadnt done anything wrong. He said there were no rules 
that compelled LGH to continue to offer insurance indefinitely and that hed seen evidence 
that supported LGHs version of events where it consulted the regulator before making any 
changes. He explained as Mr W had the benefit of cover over the past 30+ years, he saw no 
reason to ask LGH to return the premiums hed paid. 
Mr W made several other arguments in response to the investigators view. Ive summarised 
those I consider to be key to the complaint. Mr W said LGH failed to notify its members of 
the intended changes; that it gave misleading and false information which ultimately led Mr 
W to part with his money and the FCA mustve misunderstood LGHs intentions because it 
would never have allowed this to happen had it been told the full story. And so, its now for 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. Ive carefully thought about Mr Ws arguments in 
response to the investigators opinion, but Im not persuaded by them. This is because Mr 
Ws benefited from the peace of mind provided by the policy over many years, and had he 
brought an eligible claim during that time, I see no reason why LGH would not have paid it. I 
know Mr Ws unhappy with the changes made to his policy, but I dont think thats reason 
enough to tell LGH to return his premiums. Ill explain why. 
Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me that LGH made changes to the policy unfairly. 
It consulted with its members and explained the changes as well as consulted with the 
relevant regulatory bodies. Ive seen evidence of those exchanges and Im satisfied there 
wasnt any wrongdoing or anything untoward on LGHs part. As much as thats impacted the 
level of cover on offer to Mr W, policy terms are subject to change from time to time and this 
sometimes includes narrowing the scope of cover. Mr W isnt compelled to stay with LGH 
and is able to shop around for other suppliers should he wish to increase the level of cover 
available to him. 
I understand from Mr Ws closing arguments that hes suggested hed paid a small premium 
for his cover over a prolonged period in the knowledge that one day, should he bring a 
successful claim, hed receive the benefit of the policy. I understand the connection hes 
making here and that in some way, he feels as though hes not had that benefit of the policy 
because the details changed before he could bring a successful claim. But thats not how 
insurance policies work. Theyre not the same as a guaranteed cash plan or anything along 
those lines. I understand Mr W paid his premiums for 30+ years, but theres nothing within 
his terms that says hell be reimbursed should he not use the policy. And so, I see no reason 
to make that award. 
The policy, whilst in place, was there to potentially offer cover should he have brought a 
successful claim. Theres also nothing within the terms that says itll continue to provide 
cover on a long-term or indefinite basis. And so, I disagree with his arguments in relation to 
that. LGH explained it needed to make changes to the product and I see nothing wrong with 
its reasoning here given the wider circumstances. Mr W also mentioned the changes that 
took place in 1999 and that LGH didnt follow the rules properly back then either. Like our 
investigator, I dont see any real concern here as Im satisfied it makes no material difference 
to the outcome of this complaint and whether LGH should return the premiums Mr W paid 
since then. 
I should also say that Ive not seen any persuasive evidence in response to Mr Ws 
statement about misinformation, misdirection or false statements being made by LGH. And 
so, theres nothing for me to say in response to that either. Perhaps I should highlight that 
LGH did notify its members of the changes to the products on offer and that Ive not seen 
any evidence of it attempting to restrict the level of information available to its consumers.  
The ombudsman isnt here to regulate or make the rules in these circumstances. Thats the 
role of the FCA which has already provided its commentary on LGHs decision to switch to a 
discretionary fund. Its for all of these reasons that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and so 
LGH doesnt have to do anything more in respect of it.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman