DRN-3197465
The complaint
Ms G and Mr G complain that Nationwide Building Society allowed withdrawals from a joint 
account without the consent of both parties. 
What happened
In 1985 an account was opened for Ms G. Nationwide says its records indicate it was a Child 
Trust Fund account. Mr G was named as a signatory on the account. 
At some point, the account was converted to a savings account with both Mr G and Ms G 
able to access it on a joint basis. Nationwide has provided statements from 2011 onwards 
that show the account could be access by either party. 
In 2021 Ms G carried out a number of withdrawals totalling over £9,000. Mr G later 
complained and said Ms G didnt have his consent to make withdrawals. Mr G also said Ms 
G had been suffering with a gambling problem and the withdrawals shouldnt have been 
approved by Nationwide. 
Mr G complained but Nationwide didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Mr G also pointed out that 
his address and date of birth were wrong on Nationwides systems. 
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. But the investigator 
thought Nationwide had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr G asked to appeal and said Nationwide had failed to provide evidence that hed given 
consent for either party to operate the account independently. 
Mr G also said that, at the time of opening the account, it was set up so both parties would 
need to provide joint consent for withdrawals to take place. As Mr G asked to appeal, this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its reasonable to note that Nationwide has provided systems evidence that shows the 
account was originally opened in 1985. Nationwide says the account was opened as a Child 
Trust Fund for Ms G. At that point, Ms G was a young child. So whilst I understand Mr G 
says the account was originally opened on the basis that both he and Ms G would need to 
approve any withdrawals, I think its more likely it was set up with him as the trustee, 
controlling the account on behalf of his daughter. Thats very much in line with how trust fund 
accounts operate. 
At some point, the account operation changed. Because of the timescales involved here, 
theres little documentation on file. So we dont have the evidence Mr G wants to see that 
shows he authorised Ms G to access the account as well. But Nationwide has provided 
statements from 2011 that show by this stage the account had been converted to joint 
names and that both parties could operate it on a joint and several basis. That means, only 
one party was required to approve withdrawals. 
By 2011 Ms G was an adult. I think at some point prior to 2011 its likely Nationwide 
amended the account type and access to reflect that and ensure Ms G was able to access 
her account. I think its reasonable to expect the authority required to operate an account of 
this nature to change over time. I havent found that Nationwide acted unfairly or made a 
mistake by allowing Ms G to operate the account without consent from Mr G. 
Ive looked at all the available statements and can see withdrawals were completed in the 
past. I understand Mr G feels Nationwide shouldve asked more questions when Ms G 
visited a branch to complete withdrawals last year. But Ms G is a joint account holder. And 
whilst I can see the withdrawals were unusual, I havent seen anything that wouldve 
suggested to Nationwide that Ms G was using the funds for gambling. I havent been 
persuaded that Nationwide acted unfairly by allowing Ms G to withdraw funds from the 
account. 
Nationwide has confirmed no account changes have taken place for at least ten years. Mr G 
has explained the address recorded on the account for him is wrong  only Ms Gs address 
was on file. Nationwide has suggested Ms Gs details were transposed onto Mr Gs profile 
and has taken steps to amend his information. I understand the address details were wrong 
but I havent seen anything that shows the error impacted the withdrawals, which were made 
by Ms G using the account passbook. 
Nationwide has taken steps to correct Mr Gs details. The account has also been amended 
so that both parties are required to approve withdrawals in the future. I think thats fair in the 
circumstances. I understand my decision may come as a disappointment but as Im satisfied 
Nationwide dealt with this complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman