DRN-3307212
The complaint
Mr B complains about the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) when his agreement came to an end. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mr B entered into a 36 month personal contract purchase agreement with 
MBFS for a used car. The cash price of the car was £35,139 and it had travelled around 
3,500 miles. Mr B was required to pay £314 per month with an optional final payment of 
£18,325.
The agreement was due to end in May 2020 and Mr B wanted to return it. However due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic there were delays to collect it. It was eventually collected on 2 
August 2020 and in line with MBFS return process it was inspected on 5 August 2020. 
Thereafter MBFS said Mr B had to pay the following:
- Extra days hire  88 days 
- Damage charges - £760 (wheels and door)
- Excess mileage charges - £278 
Mr B complained about the above charges and the overall level of service he had received. 
He said he had tried on many occasions to contact MBFS about arranging collection of the 
car without success meaning it was left in his possession until August 2020. He said MBFS 
should reimburse him for the costs he incurred including insurance, storage and pay 
compensation for the overall inconvenience.
MBFS said the charge for extra days hire was incorrectly applied and they removed it, 
meaning Mr B owed £1,038. Concerning the damage and excess mileage charges they 
maintained these were fairly applied. For the insurance, they asked Mr B to provide evidence 
of the same and they would consider it. They didnt agree to pay the other costs as Mr B 
requested.
Unhappy with their response, Mr B referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They said as Mr B didnt dispute the charges for the 
wheels they wouldnt comment on it but felt the charges had been fairly applied for the 
damage to the doors. They said MBFS should pay for the extra days insurance from 16 May 
2020 (agreement end date) to 2 August 2020 (collection of the car) but they werent 
responsible for paying any other costs. 
Mr B disagreed and maintained his position. In addition, he said:
- He received demand letters for the final payment despite letting MBFS know the car 
would be returned;
- They charged him for extra days hire and it took around two months for this charge to 
be removed;
- They only gave him three days to respond to their final response;
- MBFS return standards were different to that in his agreement.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe MBFS has done enough to put things right. Ill explain why. 
Im aware Ive summarised the complaint in less detail than Mr B and MBFS, no discourtesy 
is intended by this. I can assure both parties Ive considered everything but in this decision, I 
will focus on the elements I consider to be key in reaching a fair outcome.
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement with MBFS so its a complaint our service can 
consider.  
Damages
The terms of the agreement explained when the car is returned it will be inspected in line 
with MBFS return standards and it outlined what these were so Ive taken this into account. 
Mr B signed this agreement when he acquired the car so I cant say he wasnt made aware 
of the same. 
In addition to MBFS return standards, Ive also considered the guidance published by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This is industry guidance which 
sets out what is considered fair wear and tear when cars are returned at the end of their 
agreements. However I must bear in mind this guidance is primarily for cars that were new 
when supplied. In this case, the car was around six months old when supplied and it had 
travelled over 3,500 miles. Although it wasnt brand new, given the cars age and mileage I 
consider it to be as new so I think its fair to take this guidance into account when 
considering what is fair wear and tear in this case.
I note initially Mr B only disputed the charges related to the door but now he disputes them 
all as he doesnt think the terms have been applied correctly and he believes the car was in 
excellent condition given its age and mileage. 
The wheels
The inspection reported damage on all four wheels and MBFS charged £85 for each of 
them. MBFS standards say scuffs up to 25mm is acceptable, the BVRLA guidance says 
scuffs up to 50mm are acceptable. Having reviewed the photographs of the reported 
damage, I can see there are scuff marks around all the wheels which in my opinion are 
beyond fair wear and tear. Therefore, Im satisfied MBFS are entitled to charge for this. 
The doors
The inspection report states the two front doors are damaged and MBFS has charged £210 
for each. MBFS return standards say light surface scratches not through the top coat which 
can be removed by polishing/touch up are acceptable. The BVRLA guidelines say Surface
scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable
provided they can be polished out. Having reviewed the pictures of both doors, I can see 
there are scratches on the edge of them. Based on the measuring tool showed next to them, 
I believe they exceed 25mm so they cant be considered fair wear and tear meaning MBFS 
can charge for them. Excess mileage
Mr B is unhappy with the charge for excess mileage. He thinks this is unfair especially as he 
believes the car was returned in excellent condition for a car of its age and mileage. 
Mr Bs agreement permits him to travel 13,000 miles per year meaning 39,000 miles over the 
course of the agreement. When it was returned, the odometer said it had travelled 44,693 
miles. Where this happens, the agreement said MBFS would charge 11 pence excluding 
VAT for each mile above the permitted mileage. In this case, as its clear Mr B has exceeded 
permitted miles by over 2,000, I find MBFS were entitled to charge for this so I cant say they 
have done anything wrong.
While Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments about the condition of the car, this has no 
bearing on the terms related to the excess mileage. The condition and mileage of the car are 
treated separately under the terms of the agreement.
Insurance
Mr B said MBFS should reimburse him for the cost of insurance between 16 May and 2  
August 2020 which is when the agreement ended and when the car was collected. MBFS 
has already said they would consider this upon receipt of evidence. Like the investigator, I 
believe its fair MBFS refund the insurance on a pro-rata basis for this period of time. I 
understand a copy of this evidence has already been provided to MBFS and I expect them to 
do the necessary calculation and refund the cost of premiums for this time as Mr B was 
required to be responsible for the car a lot longer after the agreement came to an end.
Other 
I note Mr B complained about a number of other points such as delays to collection, 
receiving demand letters and costs incurred. Im not going to comment on each point but I do 
wish to highlight a couple. 
When thinking about what Mr B has said, I cant ignore the wider circumstances at the time, 
notably the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic of both parties. Financial businesses such as 
MBFS wouldve had their operations and resources affected, certain activities temporarily 
suspended and when resumed, significant backlogs which appeared to be the case here. 
Equally, I appreciate during this time Mr B made many attempts to contact MBFS by phone 
and email and either he was on hold for long periods, their responses were slow or he was 
told to contact another party. I understand the frustration this wouldve caused him but its 
most likely MBFS were receiving a high number of queries and their response times 
increased. Given these circumstances, I dont find MBFS acted unfairly.
As there were delays in collecting the car, the final payment remained outstanding. I suspect 
this is most likely to have caused the automatic generation of demand letters. Again, I 
appreciate this wouldve been frustrating for Mr B especially as he had made his intentions 
clear that the car would be returned. I believe MBFS couldve explained the reason for such 
correspondence to Mr B, had they done so I think this wouldve eased some of his upset and 
frustration. 
Lastly, Mr B has requested to be reimbursed for storage costs and for the time hes spent 
corresponding with MBFS to resolve this issue. By his own admission, he said he didnt incur 
storage costs but he felt £10 per day was a fair amount. While I accept Mr B was required to 
keep the car longer than expected as he didnt actually incur storage costs, it wouldnt be fair 
to say MBFS must reimburse him for this. Taking everything into account, while I acknowledge there has been a level of upset and 
inconvenience, the pandemic was an unprecedented event which impacted financial 
businesses including MBFS and consumers like Mr B. For this reason, I dont believe it 
would be reasonable to say MBFS needs to pay compensation, I believe theyve done 
enough to put things right. 
My final decision
MBFS has already said they would provide a pro-rata refund for the cost of the car insurance 
and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should refund the cost 
of the car insurance between 16 May and 2 August 2020 plus pay 8% simple interest from 
May 2020 to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman