DRN-2298082
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that IG Markets Limited have decided to close his accounts.
 
What happened
Mr C says hes been a customer of IGs for a number of years. But last October, following 
him making a complaint about dividend payments and trouble with their telephone helpline, 
IG told him theyd be terminating their relationship and closing his accounts. 
They said this was a business decision given the cost and resource required to maintain 
Mr C as a client given his extensive history with them and his continued dissatisfaction. They 
noted that there had been various complaints made and goodwill offered, but this could not 
be an expectation with each complaint made.
Mr Cs accounts were immediately set to a closing only status meaning he couldnt place 
new trades or make new investments, only settle open positions. They said his spread 
betting and CFD accounts would be closed in 30 days time  if any positions remained 
outstanding they would be closed and the proceeds returned. And that his ISA and share 
dealing agreements would also be terminated in 30 days  but that an additional 90 days 
would be given to arrange transfers out. 
Mr C was unhappy about this and didnt think hed done anything wrong. He felt the previous 
issues hed raised with IG were valid  hed been compensated for some too, so it showed 
they werent frivolous matters. He hadnt ever had a problem with the platform, the brokers 
or placing trades, so still wanted to have his IG account. He responded to IG to tell them 
they couldnt force him to close his open spread bets. 
IG replied the next day to confirm they could close positions after 30 days, in line with their 
terms. They also explained that Mr Cs previous complaints had contributed to their decision 
to close the accounts  they said the complaints had little to no merit, were frequent in 
nature and that theyd been generous with goodwill offers. They pointed to Mr Cs recent 
unhappiness about what they perceived to be a third party problem and said [t]he 
relationship is clearly not to your satisfaction, so I struggle to see why you would wish to 
continue.
Mr C already had a complaint with our service about IG, but following this decision, he raised 
another  solely about the decision to close the account, not the dividend or telephone 
helpline issues. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened, but she didnt agree IG had done 
anything wrong. She reviewed the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Cs account and 
noted IG had the right to close an account or stop providing a service. She explained that 
our service wasnt able to ask IG to change their terms and conditions and that she wasnt 
giving a view as to whether Mr C had done anything wrong, only to look to see if IG had 
acted in line with their terms or not.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt think his so called extensive complaint history was a valid 
reason for closing his account  especially as hed been paid compensation in some 
instances. He felt that if IG could make a decision like this, then they were acting contrary to 
the spirit of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and the Finance Act 2019. 
Mr C was also unhappy that he could no longer trade on the account and he raised this with 
our investigator. But she explained IG would allow him to close positions, just not open new 
ones. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair. He said it takes time to find a new ISA provider and transfer 
things over, so to be prevented from trading and using his money in the meantime wasnt 
right and put him into a financially disadvantageous position. He felt IG had written their 
terms to protect themselves, not their customers, which was why he was complaining  he 
knew IG were complying with their terms, but this didnt mean it was right. As things 
remained unresolved, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate it will be disappointing for Mr C, I dont agree it 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I should first note than in opening an account with IG, Mr C agreed to be bound by their 
terms and conditions. Both the spread betting and share dealing client agreements have 
clauses which allow IG to close accounts with 30 days written notice and suspend trading 
immediately. So I dont think IG acted contrary to their terms and conditions when they made 
the decision to end their relationship with Mr C. 
While I appreciate Mr C doesnt think it was right for IG to close his accounts, I dont agree 
they did so either unreasonably or unfairly. I say this because its for IG to choose who they 
do business with, just as its for Mr C to choose which businesses he wants to have 
accounts with. Our service wouldnt look to force IG to transact with Mr C, in the same way 
we wouldnt force Mr C to use their services. 
Although IG were entitled to close Mr Cs account, they did need to do it fairly. Their terms 
required them to give Mr C a months notice before closing an account. I can see this was 
provided so he was afforded the time to consider how and when he would close his open 
positions. After that month, IG allowed a further 90 days for Mr C to transfer out. I think this 
was fair too and allowed sufficient time to consider alternative platforms. 
Recognising his complaints history was a deciding factor for IG here, Mr C emphasises his 
concerns were reasonable and sometimes upheld. Ive considered what Mr C has said very 
carefully and I must say that as IGs customer he was completely entitled to make the 
complaints he did. But I also consider IG were completely entitled to reconsider whether they 
wanted to continue servicing Mr C, given his continued dissatisfaction which perhaps 
highlighted a disparity between the service they aimed to provide and the service Mr C 
expected to receive. Mr C says he knows IG adhered to their terms, but they set them to protect themselves not 
their clients. He cites the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and the Finance Act 2019, but only by 
title and does not point to any provision he thinks is relevant here or which IG fell foul of. I 
have therefore considered the thrust of these concerns in the round, but still believe IG are 
entitled to choose who they do business with. And although Mr C thinks it was wrong for IG 
to have suspended trading, importantly he was able to close positions and at any time he 
was free to move his money elsewhere to pursue trading opportunities. So I dont think IG 
did disadvantage him financially. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account 
allowed IG to terminate their relationship with him by giving him 30 days notice  which they 
did. Ive considered the overall notice period they gave Mr C, as well as the transfer 
deadline, but dont agree he was treated unfairly or unreasonably. For these reasons, Im 
satisfied IG have done nothing wrong and wont be asking them to reinstate Mr Cs accounts 
or compensate him. I realise Mr C will be disappointed with this decision, but it brings to an 
end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with IG informally, can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman