DRN-3194479
The complaint
Mrs M brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr M. She says 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has unreasonably refused to pay out a claim 
under Mr Ms life assurance policy.  
What happened
In 2013, Mr M began a life assurance policy with L&G. It offered him an initial £135,750 of 
cover, set up on an indexation basis for a 21-year term. 
In December 2019, Mr M sadly passed away suddenly. His cause of death was attributed to 
a type of drug and alcohol intoxication along with coronary artery disease. 
Mrs M made a claim to L&G but it was refused. L&G explained that Mr Ms policy had lapsed 
on 23 November 2019  this was because no premiums had been paid since July 2019. 
Mrs M complained sometime later. She said she did not have access to Mr Ms bank 
account  so she couldnt have known the premiums were missed. Further, she said Mr M 
wasnt opening his post, so he hadnt seen the lapse letters of August 2019 and October 
2019 issued by L&G. It had then sent a review letter of 4 November 2019, so by the time she 
had reviewed this, she wasnt aware the policy had ended.  
Mrs M also brought her complaint to this service, explaining how Mr M had been suffering 
with severe depression and this in turn caused his behaviour and substance abuse. 
L&G confirmed it wasnt prepared to change its view. It issued a final response to the 
complaint in September 2021, noting that there wasnt medical evidence to support Mr M 
having cancelled his policy due to mental health issues.   
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. However, she did not think 
the complaint should succeed. She noted how the policy was no longer active at the time of 
Mr Ms death; in her view, L&G hadnt done anything wrong because it wasnt aware of the 
reasons why the premiums werent being paid and It followed the stated terms and 
conditions when lapsing the policy. 
Mrs M disagreed with the investigator. She reiterated that Mr M was not of sound mind when 
he cancelled the policy, and this could be evidenced by Mr Ms doctor. To that end, Mrs M 
provided further information of an extract from Mr Ms medical records and explained she 
had called the Police several times from August to December due to issues with Mr Ms 
behaviour and mental health, including two occasions where hed gone missing.  
L&G said its view was unchanged; the medical record and Police references did not provide 
proof that Mr M was not of sound mind when he ceased to pay the policy premiums. Our 
investigator agreed, noting she still hadnt seen clear evidence that L&G had acted unfairly.  
Mrs M therefore asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.  She said she would 
not have been recorded as trying to have Mr M sectioned if he was well and in control of his 
mental health. And this must have been the reason he cancelled the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to send Mrs M my best wishes at what I understand is an exceptionally difficult time 
for her. I realise my decision will not be what she has hoped for. However, having reviewed 
all of the information carefully, I am also of the view that this complaint cannot succeed. That 
means I wont be asking L&G to do anything more.
I have no reason to doubt the circumstances Mr and Mrs M experienced in 2019, and I 
recognise Mrs M says that but for the decline in Mr Ms mental health, hed have kept his life 
cover going. However, I cannot place particular weight on Mr Ms intent because it cannot be 
said with any certainty as to why he stopped paying the premiums. 
Further, even if I assumed that Mr M had wished to reinstate the policy or make up the 
missed premiums, this did not happen  and L&G was unaware of Mr Ms circumstances at 
that time. As the sole owner of the policy, only Mr M could have prevented it from lapsing. 
I need to be fair to both parties in a complaint. My remit is to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome and I cant use hindsight to determine a complaint. I must look at what ought to 
have happened in the circumstances to decide whether a business has behaved reasonably 
 that being if L&G acted fairly when it couldnt collect the premiums in 2019.  
I have looked at what the parties' obligations are under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. That is the start point. The policy terms say:
7.3 What happens if you dont pay your premiums?
We are entitled to cancel this policy if any premiums are not paid within 30 days of 
their due date. If we cancel this policy, the cover will end and no further premiums will 
be payable. We will not refund any premiums already paid.
and:
8.1 You will not be eligible to make a claim under this policy if:
you dont meet the definitions for cover as described in sections 2 and 3, or
section 2.1.1 applies, or
the premiums under this policy are not up to date.
  
The missing premium was due on 12 August 2019. Thirty days from this date was 11 
September 2019. L&G went beyond this and gave Mr M 14 days from the letter of 10 
October 2019 to reinstate his cover, in addition to telling Mr M on 31 August 2019 that the 
premium had been missed. Sadly, this wasnt identified and the policy lapsed on 23 
November 2019. This was before Mr Ms death on 13 December 2019.  
L&G has behaved fairly because it has acted within the terms applying to the policy. The 
terms are explicit that it is not obliged to pay a claim if the premiums are outstanding and it 
can terminate the policy after 30 days has passed from non-payment of any premium.
I realise Mrs M feels that the missed premiums (those being the five missed premiums from 
August to December 2019) could simply have been paid if Mr M had been of sound mind to 
do so - then hed have been insured when he passed away and a claim could be paid.  But I cannot simply instruct L&G to do that. In considering what is fair and reasonable to both 
parties, I must refer to the contract of insurance between Mr M and L&G. I cannot infer terms 
in the contract to allow for goodwill or ex-gratia payments or the reinstatement of a cancelled 
policy. An insurer might choose to apply discretion or act outside of the terms (if it does so in 
a more favourable way than the terms allow), but it is not something I can order it to do in 
these circumstances, as the terms have been complied with. 
I do not underestimate that Mr and Mrs M were suffering from particularly difficult 
circumstances given Mr Ms declining mental health. I can see Mrs M has evidenced how Mr 
M was not taking care of himself. The GP note of 25 November 2019 confirms a call from 
Mrs M about the concerns regarding Mr Ms mental health issues, which in turn caused him 
behavioural issues, along with drinking and taking drugs to excess. Mrs M enquired about 
sectioning under the relevant mental health legislation and was directed to the Police. 
However, none of this was known to L&G; it was not at fault for those unfortunate 
circumstances, and it had legitimately cancelled the policy two days before that call. 
As I have set out above, L&G has acted within the policy terms. And secondary to that 
consideration, I have seen no objective evidence that sets out Mr M had not wished to 
cancel his cover  the reasons for this simply arent known. Therefore, I cannot order it to 
reinstate the policy such that a life assurance claim can be assessed now as the insured 
event happened after the policy had lapsed. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs M, her family, and her circumstances, I dont believe L&G has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. And so, I cannot order it to pay a claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman