DRN-2824911
The complaint
Mr P complains that London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) breached his data and 
delayed his mortgage application.
What happened
Mr P previously used L&C for a mortgage, so in 2018 when he needed to re-mortgage his 
rental property he contacted them. The process started in October 2018 and Mr Ps current 
buy-to-let mortgage was due to end at the end of January 2019. The new mortgage didnt 
end up starting until March 2019.
Mr P complains that L&C delayed his new mortgage application. He says it made an error 
with his solicitor details. Mr P explains he never consented to using L&Cs solicitor (O) and 
wanted to use his own. And that L&Cs solicitor details were used by the mortgage provider 
rather than his own, delaying the process and breaching his data. 
L&C explained that it wasnt until after the mortgage process had started that Mr P chose to 
appoint his own solicitors. It said that a solicitor has to be appointed at the start, so it had 
already appointed O when Mr P found his own solicitor. It said it contacted the mortgage 
provider and updated the details when Mr P made the change. It however offered Mr P £50 
as a gesture of goodwill for not checking the mortgage offer before it was emailed out, as 
this was a missed opportunity to spot the incorrect details.
Our investigator ultimately didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She was satisfied L&C had 
actioned Mr Ps request and had been proactive throughout the mortgage application, 
chasing for updates and quickly acting on information requests. And she didnt hold it 
responsible for the delay between the end of January and March 2019  when Mr P moved 
onto a variable rate as his new mortgage hadnt started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both parties that a third party is required for conveyancing on a mortgage. 
The issue here is whether Mr P agreed to O being used  via L&C. And whether the 
involvement of O in this application then caused delays.
Ive listened to the call Mr P had with L&C on 15 November 2018. He gives the advisor the 
name of O and says theyve been in contact with him as he understands theyre L&Cs 
confirmed partner. He asks if he has to use them or he can use someone else, if he finds 
someone cheaper. At this time the application process is already going ahead, as a 
mortgage provider has been selected and Mr P, at the start of this same call, discusses his 
payslips and other evidence that has been requested of him as part of his application. 
The next day Mr P calls and says he will instead be using his own solicitor and L&C agrees 
to action this request. L&C has confirmed that a conveyancer has to be chosen at the start of 
the mortgage application, as per the paperwork Mr P completed. This is how O was 
appointed  as at that time Mr P didnt have his own conveyancer. And it seems in 
November 2018, Mr P was aware of this and why O had his details. And I can see that L&C 
quickly actioned his request to change the solicitor when he made it. It wrote to the mortgage 
provider on 20 November 2018 requesting they update the details. So Im satisfied L&C 
didnt breach Mr Ps data; or cause delays or make a mistake in relation to his request to 
change solicitors.
I accept that O receiving Mr Ps information did cause a delay  but Mr P has already 
received compensation from the mortgage provider for this, as it accepted it was at fault for 
not updating these details. And a conveyancer was required for the mortgage application 
process. So I cant say L&C was wrong to appoint their own conveyancer (as per its 
process) when Mr P, at the start of the application, didnt have his own. It wouldve caused 
more delays if they had not started the process until 16 November 2018, when Mr P chose 
his own solicitor. And it seems he moved solicitor because of the cost, not because he had 
his own in mind that hed always intended to use.
Ive reviewed L&Cs contact records with Mr P and the mortgage provider throughout the 
application. I can see consistent action on his case and that when further information was 
required or supplied, L&C then promptly got in contact with the relevant party. I can also see 
it contacted Mr P about the mortgage offer when it was generated and he confirmed on 31 
January 2019 that hed received it a few weeks ago. So Mr P did receive the offer before 
his fixed rate ended. From the notes I have available there was an issue with the title of the 
property that led to the delay between the offer being received and the new mortgage going 
live in March 2019  so something unrelated to the actions of L&C. On that basis, I cant 
agree it caused this delay or any extra cost this may have led to for Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman