DRN-3291362
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a credit card in late 2000. 
The company responsible is called MBNA Limited. Ill therefore refer mainly to MBNA 
throughout this final decision, for consistency. 
 
What happened
Im very sorry to Mr S for how long hes had to wait for an answer on his complaint. 
It looks like hes already had some money back for the commission element of his PPI  this 
relates to the commission and profit share part of the PPI premiums he paid over the years 
he had it. This then leaves the mis-sale element of his complaint still outstanding  he thinks 
the whole policy in its entirety was mis-sold to him.
I see one of our adjudicators assessed this complaint a while ago and said they didnt think 
the PPI had been mis-sold. However, this was later reviewed and more recently another 
adjudicator issued a view that the mis-sale complaint ought to be upheld. 
MBNA disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr Ss credit card account was taken out by filling out a paper application form and I note he 
ticked a box on the form to specifically say he wanted to add PPI.
Nevertheless, MBNA had a duty to provide information that was clear enough for Mr S to 
make an informed choice about the policy. I dont think MBNA did that. I say this because 
the PPI policy was one that only paid 3% of Mr Ss outstanding credit card balance each 
month for up to a year if he made a successful claim.
In my experience, this benefit level is at the lower end of the scale in comparison with other 
PPI benefits Ive seen from around that time. In my view, it was a poor percentage benefit 
level taking account of Mr Ss circumstances. Crucially, the percentage wasnt clearly shown 
at or near to where he made his choice on the form. So, by failing to clearly set out important 
information like this, MBNA failed in its duty.
Mr S had a job at the time which I think would have had reasonable coverage as far as 
sickness protection was concerned. I also think hed have enjoyed some other protections, 
such as redundancy cover. Whilst these things dont always mean PPI isnt of use, 
considering Mr Ss age and other circumstances, I dont think he would have wanted a PPI 
policy that offered such poor benefits. If things had been made clearer, he would have 
therefore considered this PPI as a waste of money, in my view.
MBNA didnt respond to our adjudicators most recent view, which set out the same 
information as Ive done here.
Im therefore upholding the complaint in full. MBNA failed to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. If Mr S had been told more, he wouldnt have bought the 
policy.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. It 
can deduct from this any commission redress already fully paid:
A. MBNA should find out how much Mr S would have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove 
any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those charges. MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mr S 
owed when he closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had 
PPI. If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
B. MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr S would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when MBNA works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
S paid more than enough to clear his balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr 
S wouldve owed MBNA something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.  
D. MBNA should tell Mr S what its done to work out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I require MBNA Limited to pay 
the compensation Ive mentioned above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman