DRN-3123481
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the amount he was offered by Watford Insurance Company Europe Ltd 
(trading as Debenhams) in settlement of his claim for the theft of his car.
 
For clarity, any references to Watford include agents acting on their behalf. 
What happened
Mr B had car insurance with Watford. He contacted his insurer to make a claim after his car 
was stolen. 
Watford valued the car at £35,676.50. Mr B said he didnt feel this was a fair valuation, but 
Watford didnt uphold his complaint. They said theyd referred to two established industry 
guides - and that theyd used an average of those two valuations to arrive at the settlement 
figure theyd offered.
Our investigator looked into the way Watford had valued Mr Bs car. He noted that theyd got 
valuations from three industry guides  the two theyd used to arrive at their settlement figure 
and a third, which Ill refer to as the specified guide. Our investigator didnt think Watford 
had acted unreasonably by choosing not to use the figure quoted by the specified guide, 
because it was significantly more than the valuations from the other two guides. He was 
satisfied that the values theyd relied on were fair.
Mr B disagreed. He was unhappy that Watford had ignored the higher valuation, which he 
felt to be nearer the price hed have to pay to replace the car. So the case has come to me 
for a decision.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
The terms on which Watford agreed to insure Mr Bs car are set out in their policy booklet. 
Ive reviewed the wording of this in detail. Section 2 sets out the cover provided for loss by 
fire or theft. It says Watford will pay the market value of the car immediately before the loss. 
Meanings of words used in the policy are set out in the definitions section on page seven of 
the booklet. This says Market Value is defined as:
The retail market value based on that listed in the current [specified guide] for 
purchasing, or replacing, the insured vehicle with one of the same make, model, age, 
trim level, recorded mileage and being in a similar condition. [Specified guide] is a 
motor trade publication recognised and used extensively throughout the motor vehicle 
industry to value new/used vehicles. Where [specified guide] is not available or there is 
a dispute over valuation with Your insurer, We will consider alternative equivalent 
motor trade publications...
The evidence Ive seen shows that the specified guide listed the retail market value of Mr Bs 
car at £39,100 immediately before it was stolen. As a valuation was available from the 
specified guide for this particular car  and Mr B didnt dispute it  I think thats the figure 
Watford shouldve used as the market value in this case. 
Watford say they valued the car in line with Financial Ombudsman Service guidelines. Ive 
given careful thought to the point theyve made here. Its very common for motor insurance 
policies to say theyll compensate the policyholder for the loss of their car by paying its 
market value immediately before the loss. The policy terms dont always specify which 
industry guide(s) the insurer will use to calculate this. So, our service accesses a number of 
industry guides to assess whether the insurers valuation is within the range wed expect to 
see. 
But where the policy terms name a particular industry guide as the insurers source of 
reference, I dont consider it to be fair for that valuation to be disregarded in favour of lower 
valuations from other guides. The evidence Ive seen shows that the other two guides valued 
Mr Bs car at £36,000 and £35,353 - considerably lower than the specified guides valuation 
of £39,100.
I appreciate that Watford may consider the valuation from the specified guide to be out of 
line with the other two industry guides on this occasion. But theyd set out the method theyd 
use to assess market value very clearly in the policy Mr B purchased. So I think he was 
entitled to expect them to follow it. 
I said that I was minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Watford to:
increase their settlement offer to £39,100 for the loss of his car, from which theyre 
entitled to deduct the applicable policy excess and any outstanding premiums or 
finance that Mr B owes;
pay 8% simple interest on the outstanding balance owed to Mr B, calculated from the 
date of the claim to the date they pay him.
I invited Mr B and Watford to send me any further information theyd like me to consider. 
Both parties responded, saying they accepted my provisional decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Ltd to:
increase their settlement offer to Mr B to £39,100 for the loss of his car, from which 
theyre entitled to deduct the applicable policy excess and any outstanding 
premiums or finance that Mr B owes;
pay 8% simple interest on the outstanding balance owed to Mr B, calculated from the 
date of the claim to the date they pay him.
If Watford consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr B how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman