DRN-3918315
The complaint
Mr D complains that Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited (MAS) unfairly 
changed the reference rate on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr D has a mortgage with MAS. The interest rate on the mortgage was the three month 
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin of 2.05%.
In 2021, MAS wrote to Mr D. It said that from the end of 2021 LIBOR would no longer be 
published, so it needed to use a different reference rate to calculate the interest rate on Mr 
Ds mortgage. MAS said if Mr D consented it would switch the reference rate on his 
mortgage to Term Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA). That was based on a 
independent benchmark rate. There would also be a credit adjustment spread, which was 
an additional interest amount fixed for the term of the mortgage. 
If Mr D did not consent to that change, MAS said it would use synthetic LIBOR as the 
reference rate. That is a reference rate set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The 
rate was also based on SONIA, but with a different spread adjustment to that used by MAS..
Mr D did not consent to the change to SONIA, so his mortgage switched to synthetic LIBOR 
from 1 January 2022. Mr D does not consider that the switch was fair, for a number of 
reasons, including:
MAS has unilaterally changed the terms of his mortgage without his consent and without 
offering a reasonable adjustment.
During the time he had his mortgage, his payments did not fluctuate by more than a few 
pounds. But since the change his payments have gone up considerably.
MAS has introduced an arbitrary synthetic rate that benefits MAS but does not reflect the 
original terms of the mortgage, which were suitable for his needs when he took it out.
MAS should offer a solution which has the same stability in payments as the original 
mortgage.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr D did not accept what the investigator said. He made reiterated and made a number of 
points, including:
Since he made the complaint his payments have gone up further.
MAS should honour the contract he entered into and should offer a suitable alternative 
product. The synthetic rates significantly benefit MAS to his detriment. And the failure of 
MAS to offer any new products is unfair and unlawful.
MAS is attempting to deflect the issue. If he remortgaged with a different lender, he will 
have to accept less favourable terms.
It was inaccurate, intimidatory and dishonest for MAS to infer that he has affordability 
problems.
When he took out the mortgage, the lender assessed his circumstances and affordability 
based on LIBOR. He has complied with the terms of the mortgage and MAS should do 
the same. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the course of this complaint, Mr D has raised a point about the failure of MAS to offer 
new interest rate products. But that did not form part of his original complaint and that is 
different to the complaint about the new reference rate. Ive not considered that point here. 
Mr D can complain to MAS about that if he wants and if he has not done so already.
I agree that when Mr D took out the mortgage, it was on the expectation that the 
reversionary rate would be based on LIBOR being used as the reference rate. But LIBOR 
ceased to exist on 31 December 2022. So it was reasonable for MAS to substitute a 
replacement reference rate. Indeed, the terms and conditions of the mortgage allow MAS to 
substitute a rate which it reasonably decide represents a comparable rate of interest for 
three months sterling deposits
The FCA has issued guidance about what a fair replacement rate for LIBOR is likely to be. 
Im satisfied that the replacement rates offered by MAS are in line with that guidance. The 
regulators guidance is one of the things I must take into account in deciding what in my 
opinion is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the complaint. The changes 
are also in line with what other lenders have done. In view of those things, I am satisfied that 
MAS acted fairly and reasonably in changing the reference rate on Mr Ds mortgage.
I note the point that Mr D has made that when LIBOR was the reference rate his payments 
were stable for 15 years. But that reflects that interest rates generally remained historically 
low for large parts of that time. It does not follow that if LIBOR had remained as the 
reference rate that it would not also have gone up. Ive not seen any evidence that the 
change to the reference rate has unfairly benefitted MAS. 
I cant see any reason why MAS would be required to agree an individual solution for Mr D. 
And there are no barriers to Mr D moving to a different lender if he is unhappy with the 
changes made by MAS. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman