DRN-3641415
The complaint
Mr D believes Moneybarn No.1 Limited acted irresponsibly by approving a conditional sale 
agreement hed applied for. Hes also unhappy with the quality of the car supplied to him 
under this agreement.
What happened
On 20 May 2019, Mr D was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. He paid a deposit of £200 and the agreement was for £21,398 over 60 
months; with monthly repayments of £701.52. At the time the car was four years old and had 
done 69,381 miles.
Mr D complained that Moneybarn acted irresponsibly when providing this lending. He said 
that, at the time of application, he had several defaults, and was in a debt repayment plan. 
Which meant that he struggled to maintain payments to Moneybarn and missed payments to 
priority bills as a result. Mr D was also unhappy that, in December 2019, there was an issue 
with the fuel injectors, and he had to pay for this to be repaired
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, so he brought it to us for investigation.
Our investigator didnt think Moneybarn carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
when they assessed Mr Ds application, as they failed to verify his income or expenditure at 
the time. And he thought they shouldve given the defaults more consideration. However, the 
investigator said that if Moneybarn had carried out these checks, then they wouldve found 
the agreement was affordable for Mr D. So, he didnt think theyd acted irresponsibly.
The investigator also said that the fault with the car was likely to be a wear and tear issue, 
given the age and mileage, and that the car hadnt been serviced in line with manufacturer 
guidelines. So, he didnt think the fault made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied, and Moneybarn didnt need to take any further action.
Mr D didnt agree. He said he was in arrears with his mortgages and had another loan of 
£659 a month at the time, which hadnt been taken into consideration, and this made the 
finance through Moneybarn unaffordable. And hes referred to the evidence thats been 
provided which he says confirms this. Hes also said that some of his income was repayment 
of expenses, and wasnt his salary, so shouldnt have been included.
Mr D also said that the car had been serviced in 2016, 2017, and 2018, so it wasnt correct 
to say that it hadnt been. Because Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr D would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr D 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Moneybarn didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ds 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Moneybarn have confirmed that, when they considered Mr Ds application, they reviewed his 
credit file. And, while there were defaults and arrears showing, they considered these when 
making their overall lending decision. Just because there are defaults and arrears, this 
doesnt mean that Moneybarn shouldve declined the application. But I would expect them to 
take these into account as part of the approval process, and Moneybarn have confirmed that 
they did this.
Moneybarn have also said that Mr D had an average monthly income of £5,000, and his 
expenditure was calculated based on the information on the credit report and information 
obtained from the Office of National Statistics (ONS). And they calculated that Mr Ds 
monthly non-discretionary expenditure was £1,909.24. Which gave Mr D sufficient 
disposable income to maintain their payments over the term of the agreement. Finally, 
Moneybarn have said that Mr D signed to say that the payments were affordable for him.
While the use of ONS data to calculate expenditure is common in these circumstances, and I 
dont think that Moneybarn did anything wrong by using this, I dont consider it reasonable to 
rely on an affordability declaration made by the customer. Instead, I would expect 
Moneybarn to carry out their own checks to show whether the finance is affordable or not,
Moneybarn have confirmed that they dont hold copies of the credit check they did when 
approving Mr Ds application, but have provided the credit reference agency reference 
number which shows that the check had been done. Theyve also provided a Statement of 
Account which shows Mr D made the payments by direct debit until November 2020.
Theyve also said that Mr D asked for a payment holiday in November 2020, due to a 
change in his wifes income. An assessment of Mr Ds income and expenditure was done in 
November 2020, which showed that he had a disposable income of £720 a month. Because 
of this, the payment holiday was refused, and Mr D has made manual payments from 
November 2020 onwards.Because Moneybarn are unable to provide evidence of the checks theyve done, I cant 
reasonably say that these were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr D could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Because Moneybarn cant evidence theyve carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, Ive gone on to consider what they wouldve seen if these checks had been carried 
out. Mr D had provided a copy of his credit file from December 2020 (albeit from a different 
provider than Moneybarn have shown they used). And Ive considered the pre-May 2019 
data showing in this report.
The credit file shows that Mr D had six defaults totalling £18,843, all dating from 2018. And, 
where payments to these were recorded, they were showing as £1 a month. The credit file 
also showed that Mr D had three mortgages (two of which were in arrears), as well as two 
loans and a credit card. Finally, it showed that Mr D had used Payday lenders in the past 
(2015/16), but he was no longer reliant upon these.
Mr D has also provided copies of his bank statements for 4 February to 29 May 2019  the 
period immediately before the finance was taken out. While I wouldnt have expected 
Moneybarn to have asked Mr D for copies of his bank statements, Im satisfied that these 
statements, along with a copy of Mr Ds credit file, give a good indication of what Moneybarn 
would likely have taken into consideration. 
Mr D has provided a payslip to show that his annual salary in April 2019 was £90,270. The 
bank statements show his average income to be £4,858 a month for March to May 2019, 
although his February salary is in excess of £26,000. Given the nature of Mr Ds work, its 
highly likely this included a bonus. He also received a rental income payment of £611 a 
month and an additional payment from his employers, which Mr D says was an expenses 
payment, so hasnt been included in my calculations. This means that Mr D had an average 
monthly income of £5,469 (excluding bonus and expenses).
Mr D paid £2,560 a month for his mortgages and service charge (the payments on the bank 
statements compared to the credit search, show that Mr D was also paying towards the 
arrears, which hes confirmed was the case); £371 for council tax and utilities; £266 for 
insurances; £86 for TV and broadband; £768 for loans and credit cards; and £11 towards his 
defaults through a debt charity  a total of £4,062. This left Mr D with £1,406 a month for the 
payment to Moneybarn, food, clothing, and discretionary expenditure.
Im aware that the bank statements show that Mr D had a large amount of discretionary 
spending, which resulted in some returned items. While I wouldnt expect Mr D to have not 
spent any of his disposable income, the nature of this type of spending is such that its not 
for regular and/or priority bills, or for things such as food etc. As such, by taking on an 
additional commitment, its reasonable to expect Mr D to have altered his discretionary 
spending habits accordingly.
Given the above, as well as Mr Ds substantial bonus, had Moneybarn checked Mr Ds bank 
statements, they would have found that the finance was affordable for him. As such, Im 
satisfied they made a fair lending decision.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr D to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr D took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
Ive seen an invoice dated 31 December 2019, where Mr D had a repair to the fuel injectors 
and a brake fluid service at the cost of £1,555. At this point the car had done 75,039 miles  
5,658 more than when it had been supplied to Mr D more than seven months earlier. The 
fuel injectors arent a part thats expected to last the lifetime of the car and would need to be 
replaced through wear and tear. And the servicing is part of regular maintenance on the car.
Theres nothing on the invoice that says the fuel injector issue was because of a fault that 
was present or developing when the car was supplied. And I havent seen anything else, for 
example an independent engineers report, that confirms this was the case. As Mr D had the 
car repaired and didnt raise this matter with Moneybarn until almost a year later, its no 
longer possible for the car to be independently inspected to try and determine when the fault 
may have occurred. 
Ive also considered the servicing that had taken place on the car before Mr D had been 
supplied with it. The advert for the car said it had been serviced three times, and Mr D has 
pointed out that it was serviced in June 2016, June 2017, and June 2018. Because of this, 
he believes this shows that car has a full service history. 
However, the manufacturer guidelines for servicing are that services should take place at a 
maximum of 18,600 miles, or two years, whichever is sooner. The car was first registered in 
May 2015 and the service that took place in June 2016 was at 28,306 miles  around 10,000 
miles after it shouldve taken place. The June 2017 service was at 50,003 miles  21,697 
miles after the last service, and around 3,000 miles later than it shouldve been done. 
Finally, the June 2018 service was at 69,687 miles  19,684 miles after the last service, and 
around 1,000 miles late. And, if the car shouldve been serviced every 18,600 miles, the 
fourth service shouldve taken place at 74,400 miles, but theres no evidence that Mr D had 
this service done. Given this, I cant agree the car was serviced within manufacturer 
guidelines. And the lack of regular servicing could be a factor in some parts failing earlier 
than they otherwise wouldve done.
Mr D has also provided an invoice for further work done on the fuel injectors, and an oil 
change, in May 2022, at the cost of £702.56. As with the December 2019 invoice, theres 
nothing to indicate this related to an issue with the car that was present or developing when 
it was supplied to Mr D.As such, given all the above, Im not satisfied that there was a fault with the car that was 
present or developing when it was supplied to Mr D. And I wont be asking Moneybarn to 
reimburse him for the cost of any repairs hes had done.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman