DRN-3631467
The complaint
Miss W complains that Semita Group Limited (Semita) terminated her agreement without 
warning and collected her vehicle whilst her personal possessions were inside. 
What happened
In September 2020 Miss W acquired a car though a hire agreement with Semita. 
Miss W said the vehicle was collected by Semita on 22 March 2021 without her knowledge, 
and she received no warning this would happen, only receiving information about the 
termination of her agreement some hours later. 
Miss W complained to Semita on 23 March 2021. She said made a payment to clear the 
arrears on her account on 1 March 2021, and a further monthly payment on 11 March 2021. 
She asked Semita to refund this payment as she had no access to the car after it was 
collected on 22 March 2021. Miss W also asked Semita to refund the value of the personal 
belongings that were in the car when it was taken. 
Miss W didnt receive a response from Semita, and so she brought her complaint to this 
service for investigation. 
Semita sent Miss W their final response to her complaint in February 2022. They said Miss 
Ws account had been in arrears on a number of occasions, and they were able to collect the 
vehicle when this happened. They said they werent required by law to provide advance 
notice of the repossession, and they did give five days notice of their intent to recover the 
vehicle. They said the payments theyd accepted all related to the time Miss W had the 
vehicle, and no personal possessions were found when it was collected. They didnt uphold 
Miss Ws complaint. 
Our investigator asked Semita for documents showing theyd sent arrears and termination 
notices to Miss W. Semita said the agreement wasnt a regulated credit agreement, and so 
they hadnt retained any documents. 
Our investigator gave her view that the agreement was regulated. She thought the 
termination clause was unfair, Semita had failed to send arrears or default notices, or notify 
Miss W that the agreement was going to be terminated and so the vehicle was unfairly 
repossessed. She recommended that Semita refund Miss W for her personal belongings, 
refund Miss Ws initial payment on a pro rata basis and pay Miss W £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Semita agreed to refund Miss W for her personal belongings, and pay £150 compensation, 
but they didnt agree to refund Miss Ws initial payment on a pro rata basis. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 60N of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (RAO) defines a consumer hire agreement as: 
An agreement between a person (the owner) and an individual or relevant recipient of 
credit (the hirer) for the bailment or, in Scotland, the hiring, of goods to the hirer which
(a) is not a hire-purchase agreement, and
(b) is capable of subsisting for more than three months;
exempt agreement means a consumer hire agreement which is an exempt agreement 
under articles 60O to 60Q;
owner means
(a) the person who bails or, in Scotland, hires, goods under a  consumer hire agreement, or
(b) a person who exercises or has the right to exercise the rights and duties of a person who 
bailed or, in Scotland, hired, goods under such an agreement;
It goes on to set out that a regulated consumer hire agreement means: 
In the case of an agreement entered into on or after 1st April 2014, any consumer hire 
agreement which is not an exempt agreement
Ive reviewed the vehicle lease agreement and the vehicle hire and lease order form which 
makes up the agreement between Semita and Miss W. It sets out that Semita remain the 
owner of the vehicle, and Miss W pays them a monthly amount for its use. The term of the 
agreement is set out as being for 12 months.
So, Im satisfied that the agreement meets the definition of a consumer hire agreement. Ive 
considered articles 60O to 60Q of the RAO, and Im satisfied that the agreement isnt 
exempt, and so is a regulated consumer hire agreement. 
All things considered, Im satisfised that Miss W was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement which is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and so were able to consider 
complaints about it. 
Semita have said that Miss W was in arrears on her agreement, and so they were able to 
collect the vehicle with no prior notice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook sets out in the consumer credit 
sourcebook (CONC), that Semita have a duty to treat customers in default or arrears with 
forbearance and due consideration. 
I havent seen any evidence that Semita discussed the arrears with Miss W or provided any 
forbearance prior to the termination of the agreement. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) sets out that Semita had a duty to give notices to Miss 
W about arrears and defaults, and before they took certain action. It sets out that Semita 
needed to take these steps before they were entitled to enforce any of the agreement terms, 
such as termination of the agreement. I havent seen any evidence that Semita sent arrears notices, default notices or 
communicated their intent to repossess the vehicle to Miss W. I also havent seen any 
evidence that Semita registered a default in respect of Miss Ws agreement. 
As theres no evidence that Semita have complied with the requirements in CONC or the 
CCA, Im satisfied that the agreement was unfairly terminated. 
Its not now possible to put Miss W back in the position she wouldve been if the agreement 
hadnt been terminated, as the car cannot now be returned to her. 
Miss W paid an initial rental at the beginning of the agreement, but she hasnt had full use of 
this sum as the agreement was ended early. So, I find Semita should refund this on a pro 
rata basis. 
Miss W paid a total of £1,368 for the initial payment to cover a 12-month term, this is £3.75 
per day. The agreement was terminated 199 days after it was entered So, Semita should 
refund Miss W for the remaining 166 days, which is a total of £622.50.  
Miss W has asked for the last payment she made to be returned to her as the vehicle was 
collected in the month that she paid it. 
The agreement between Semita and Miss W required Miss W to make an initial payment, 
and a monthly payment for the term of the agreement. Miss W missed some payments 
during the time that she had the car, making some increased payments to clear these 
arrears. 
Ive seen evidence of the payments that Miss W did make, and Im satisfied that these relate 
only to the time that she had and was using the car. So, Im not asking Semita to refund any 
of these. 
Miss W has said there were items in the car when it was collected, and shed like to be 
reimbursed for these. Semita said they have no log of any items being recovered. 
Miss W has explained that there was a pushchair and two child car seats in the car, and Ive 
seen evidence for the cost of these items at £373.90. Miss W said she had no warning of the 
car being collected, and so the items were in the vehicle as they usually would be. 
I havent seen any evidence that Semita gave Miss W notice about the repossession of the 
car, or any record of any inspection completed after the car was collected. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that it was more likely than not that Miss W 
had the pushchair and car seats in the vehicle at the time it was taken. And so Semita 
should refund £373.90 for these items. 
Our investigator recommended that Semita pay Miss W £150 compensation. Miss W has 
been put to distress and inconvenience in having her car collected with no warning and 
having to replace the items in the car at the time it was taken. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that £150 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Miss W. 
My final decision
 Due to the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and 
Semita Group Limited must: Pay Miss W £622.50 as a pro rata refund for her initial rental. 
Pay Miss W £373.90 for the items in the vehicle when it was collected. 
Pay Miss W £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman