DRN-3372636
The complaint
Mr K complains that his home insurer, St Andrews Insurance Plc has unreasonably limited 
his claim for loss and damage following a burglary at his home. He would like his claim paid 
in full, with interest.
What happened
I sent the parties a provisional decision in February 2022, in which I set out the following 
background information to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
Mr K held a home insurance policy with St Andrews since 2006. His home was burgled in 
November 2019 with damage and loss to both fixtures and valuables. Mr K said his claim is 
based on the valuations and supporting documents for the lost valuables, totalling £39,000. 
St Andrews restricted Mr Ks claim to the High Risk Item limit of £7,500 and Single Article 
limit of £1,500 within his policy. It said Mr K was advised of his cover and its up to him to 
ensure he had the cover he needed as St Andrews can only settle a claim up to policy limits. 
Mr K complained to St Andrews that it was paying only a fraction of the cost of the stolen 
goods. He said hed added valuable items to his policy over the years, including the item of 
jewellery and a television that are shown in the insurance schedule. St Andrews responded 
in January 2020 and maintained its position on Mr Ks claim.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. He said his insurance schedule has two columns, Sum 
Insured and Description (of goods covered). Both specified items are shown which means 
the sums are payable by St Andrews. Mr K said theres also a heading optional cover you 
could add to your policy, which reads  These items arent part of your policy, but you can 
add them at any time by calling the number shown above. The line below is blank and so Mr 
K thinks St Andrews could have informed him if any item was under-insured. He said St 
Andrews never told him he was under-insured or asked for additional premium and so there 
was no reason for him to think that the Sum Insured figure wasnt actually the sum insured. 
Mr K said when he tried to add a watch and a ring to his specified items, he provided the 
purchase price, but St Andrews told him to get them valued and it would tell him of any 
additional premium. He said at no stage did St Andrews tell him he was already under-
insured and would be even more so with the additional acquisitions. Mr K said hed got some 
expensive items valued but was burgled before he could submit these to St Andrews.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Mr Ks specified items 
can be paid separately to the policy limits. He said the onus is on the policyholder to make 
sure their level of cover is adequate, and St Andrews isnt in a position to know someone is 
under-insured as they can only work on information given to them by policyholders. He said 
the earliest an insurer would be aware of this is when they are presented with a claim.
Mr K confirmed that the two items specified on the policy werent part of his claim. He said St 
Andrew's should have told him he was under-insured from his calls to tell them there were 
additional high cost items he needed to add to the list of specified items. But St Andrews 
just told him to get the items valued. Mr K requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
An ombudsman at this service asked the parties for more information. Mr K said he called St 
Andrews over several years asking to add jewellery and a watch to the list of specified items 
on his policy. He said St Andrews has admitted it was aware of the items and their cost. He 
said it should have added these to the policy but instead told him to get them evaluated and 
send in details. He said it wasnt clear to him that the items werent covered or that he was 
under-insured. Mr K said he obtained valuations for the items, but family circumstances and 
a change of job meant he hadnt provided this information to St Andrews.
St Andrews said the last contact from Mr K before his claim was in 2016 and the last 
recorded change made by Mr K to his policy limits was in December 2015 when he specified 
the two items mentioned above. 
The ombudsman sent the parties a provisional decision intending to uphold the complaint. 
She said consumers must tell their insurer the amount they want to insure their contents for, 
and insurers rely on this information to assess the risk. She said Mr K was invited to check 
his cover each year and he had set the high-risk items limit as shown in the policy schedule. 
The ombudsman said the policy defines high-risk items and the reason these should be 
specified. She said St Andrews made it clear what limits applied to the policy and that Mr K 
should review all the information provided to ensure that the level of cover is suitable for him.
The ombudsman said St Andrews has no record of the calls Mr K said he made to add a 
watch and ring to his list of specified items. She said Mr K did have these items valued and 
has since provided this information to St Andrews and wouldnt have had reason to do so 
without a requirement from St Andrews and so she accepted the call took place. She said St 
Andrews likely took details of the valuables and had enough information to cover them 
immediately and tell Mr K he was under-insured. She said it wasnt fair for St Andrews to 
exclude the value of the watch and ring in the claim above policy limits.
St Andrews disagreed with the ombudsman. It said Mr K hasnt provided any evidence such 
as phone records, the date or number to prove the call took place and its search using his 
mobile and landline number hadnt revealed a call. It said it has a record of his call in 2015 
when he specified the two items on his policy. It said at this point he had purchased the ring 
and watch that he now wished to claim for but hadnt tried to add these items to the policy.
 
Mr K said St Andrews told him he should get the items valued and call back. St Andrews 
said that isnt its process and showed that it asks for a description and value of the item and 
tells the customer they will need to provide this at claim. It said if the customer had a 
description and value, its adviser would have added the items without any form of proof, 
contrary to what Mr K had said he was told. St Andrews questioned why Mr K hadnt 
mentioned the two valuable items on calls hed made as hes owned them since 2015.
 
Mr K added that as his valuables were below £7,500, he didnt think they needed to be 
insured separately. He could not understand why St Andrews added some valuables to the 
policy from his December 2015 call but not others. He accepted the provisional decision.
My provisional findings
Mr K complains that it is unreasonable for St Andrews to apply policy limits to his claim. I 
sympathise with Mr K for the loss hes suffered in the burglary. Its worth bearing in mind that its a policyholders responsibility to tell their insurer the 
amount they want to insure their contents for. The insurer needs this information so that it 
can assess the risk it is taking on before giving a quote. In general, insurers rely on the 
figures provided by the consumer - rather than carrying out a valuation themselves. Insurers 
expect consumers to then review the sums insured when they renew their policy. St 
Andrews invited Mr K to do this each year in the renewal documents it sent him. 
Mr Ks policy and the insurance schedule show that he has unlimited contents cover. 
However, in common with other contents insurance policies, Mr Ks policy has limits for high-
risk items and for each single item. St Andrews has restricted payment of Mr Ks claim to 
these limits. I can see that Mr K was under-insured for his high-risk items. I have looked 
carefully at the information St Andrews sent him about the limits and what possessions 
should be included within them to see if Mr K is correct to say that it knew of his under-
insurance but didnt tell him.
The first page of the policy booklet explains that valuables are treated as high risk items 
and if the policyholder has an item worth more than the single high risk limit, Call us to talk 
about how we can protect it in and away from your home. Page 21 of the booklet sets out a 
list of items policyholders should treat as high-risk items, including jewellery and watches. 
Page 42 states, Your policy schedule shows if you have an item specified on your policy. If 
so, then you are covered under this section of the policy in respect of that specified item.
The renewal document St Andrews sent to Mr K in 2019 states:
Before you renew, you'll need to: Check that the cover is still right for your needs by 
reviewing the limits, cover options and any special conditions that applyLet us know if 
anything has changed by checking the information you've given us on your Insurance 
Statement enclosed. If inaccurate it could invalidate your insurance or affect future claims 
High Risk itemsare subject to the following limits:
The total cover for your High Risk items is currently £7,500.
The limit for individual High Risk items is £1,500.
It then sets out Mr Ks specified items and the additional premium payable. 
From this information I think a reasonable person would be alert to the applications of the 
limits to a potential claim involving high-risk items and the importance of specifying such 
items. I dont think Mr K thought there was no limitations for a claim on high-risk items he 
might make as he had specified two items and said he intended to specify further items. By 
specifying valuables, the policy shows that these are covered separately and wouldnt fall 
under the high-risk or single item limits and St Andrews charged additional premium for 
covering the risk of insuring these items. 
The ombudsman who previously reviewed the complaint suggests that St Andrews had a 
duty to inform Mr K that he was under-insured when he called about cover for valuable 
items. I think this is a reasonable approach to take so long as we are satisfied that the call 
took place in the way Mr K has described. Ive seen St Andrews records of contacts with Mr 
K. The last call before his claim in November 2019 was in September 2016 and the last 
recorded change made by Mr K to his policy limits was in December 2015 when he specified 
the two items set out on his insurance schedule. 
Since then I have asked St Andrews to re-examine its call records for Mr Ks numbers. It 
has done so but not identified any other calls. Mr K hasnt provided any dates or contact 
details about his calls to St Andrews about other high-risk items and so in the absence of this information I dont think its fair to overturn the policyholders responsibility to ensure he 
has the cover he needs in favour of a duty of care on St Andrews.  
Mr K has said he understands it was his responsibility to submit the evaluation in a timely 
manner and has mentioned extenuating circumstances. 
Its not clear to me why Mr K didnt add the high-risk items he lost in the burglary when he 
called St Andrews in December 2015 to add the two items that are specified on the policy 
given that he owned them then. He had at least four years policy renewals and reminders to 
do so before they were stolen. I havent seen anything to suggest that St Andrews was 
aware of the value of the items that werent specified at that time of Mr Ks claim. So I can't 
fairly say I expect St Andrew's to cover these items above the policy item limits.
Having reviewed all the policy documentation, I think St Andrews made it clear what limits 
applied to the policy and that Mr K should review all the information provided to ensure that 
the level of cover is suitable for him. Mr K has also informed St Andrews of additional
high-risk items, and he was therefore aware that there was a requirement for him to do so. I 
think Mr K should have updated the policy to include his other high-risk items. 
As these items werent included as specified items, Im currently of the view that St Andrews 
acted fairly by not including the full value of these items in the settlement of Mr Ks claim.
 
My provisional decision and the parties responses
I provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint. St Andrews had nothing further to add to 
its previous submissions. 
Mr K said the adviser didnt follow St Andrews procedures to add items to the policy where 
the customer has a description and value. Mr K said he gave this information, but he was 
mis-advised about what to do. He said St Andrews hadnt examined its call records or 
looked for annotations on the policy, it had relied on renewal documents. Mr K said hed 
never claimed to have kept records of his calls, but St Andrews should have done so.
Mr K said he would not have got his items valued if hed not been advised to do so and the 
process was onerous as hed had to find a specialist, travel to them and pay over a hundred 
pounds for certificates. He said that during this time St Andrews was aware he was in 
possession of high-value items of known cost needing to be insured. Mr K said his other 
calls to St Andrews were unrelated to this as he hadnt got around to the valuations at that 
point.
Mr K acknowledged that he should have raised his high-value items at each annual renewal 
of his policy and his accountability is clear and so he isnt claiming for all his losses. But St 
Andrews should be held to account for not doing what they should have done. And his 
actions should be considered as proof that the conversation relating to bringing the items to 
St Andrews notice did take place as set out within the original provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I sympathise with Mr K again for the loss hes suffered in the burglary and the state he found 
his house in when he discovered hed been burgled. Im sorry to learn that he feels it 
necessary to move house as a consequence of what he has suffered.
Im grateful to Mr K for his response to my provisional decision and I appreciate his 
disappointment at the outcome. Mr K said that someone from St Andrews made a mistake 
of not adhering to their own rules and asked him to have his valuable items valued instead of 
adding them to his policy. Mr K is correct to say that his complaint turns on this point. 
Mr K said that he had contacted and informed St Andrews about his high-value items and St 
Andrews had simply not kept records of conversations. I dont doubt Mr Ks recollection of a 
call, but theres simply no evidence of it. 
Mr Ks policy renewed each year with an invitation to review his high-value items and add 
them to the policy, so they are covered under the high-risk items cover. I think the 
information St Andrews provided about this was clear and its equally clear from what Mr K 
has said that he intended to cover these items. Unfortunately, theres no evidence that he 
did so and as its the policyholders responsibility to obtain the cover required then I simply 
cant uphold this complaint. 
Mr K has said he has no record of his call. At my request, St Andrews re-checked its call 
logs and customer notes to search for the call to which Mr K refers, but without success. The 
last call before Mr Ks claim in November 2019 was in September 2016 and the last change 
made by Mr K to his policy limits for high-value items was in December 2015 when he 
specified the two items set out on his insurance schedule.
As Mr Ks items werent included as specified items, I remain of the view that St Andrews 
acted fairly by not including the full value of these items in the settlement of Mr Ks claim. I 
dont think its fair to hold St Andrews liable for Mr K not insuring his high-value items that 
were stolen. And I think it is fair for St Andrews to settle his claim up to the policy limits.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman