DRN-3883384
The complaint
Mr H complaints that IPS Pensions Limited, trading as James Hay, didnt properly explain 
the charges he would incur on his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He also complains 
that when he wanted to transfer the SIPP to another business, this took too long. As the 
funds were held in cash, he thinks he has missed out on the investment growth he would 
have received if they had remained invested. 
What happened
In 2015 James Hay took over Mr Hs SIPP from another provider. This was part of a mass 
transfer. Mr H was sent a welcome pack that explained the terms and conditions of the new 
SIPP and he did query the charges that would be applied going forward. I understand there 
was no further contact about this after he received the information he requested until he 
made his complaint. 
In December 2019 Mr H decided to transfer his SIPP to a third party which Ill call Firm A, he 
started the transfer process at this time.  
After some ongoing correspondence about this, in May 2020, it was established that Firm A 
wouldnt be able to accept part of Mr Hs fund as it was held in a type of investment that it 
couldnt hold. Mr H was unable to resolve this and eventually in July 2020 only part of his 
SIPP was transferred to Firm A. 
In September 2020 Mr H took steps to transfer his remaining funds to Firm B. This second 
part of the transfer was completed in February 2021. 
Mr H has made his complaint to James Hay. It has partially upheld the complaint. It didnt 
think it was responsible for the overall length of time the transfers took as they involved a 
complicated series of transactions and, at times, the instructions it received were incomplete. 
But it did think its communication could have been better. Because of this it offered to refund 
the administration fee Mr H had paid during the year of the transfer which was £189. 
Mr H didnt accept this offer and he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and she thought the offer made 
was fair. She firstly thought the fees and charges were explained to Mr H when the SIPP 
was transferred in 2015. And she said that whilst the subsequent transfers to Firms A and B 
took a long time this was largely down to the complicated nature of part of the transfer, 
rather than any specific delays by James Hay. She agreed that James Hay could have 
communicated with Mr H better at times, but she though the offer it had made about this was 
reasonable. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said that:
He didnt think that the charges were explained to him properly in 2015 when the 
James Hay SIPP was started. 
He didnt think that James Hay had properly processed the later transfers, they were 
informed at an early point that part of the fund would not be transferred but they 
didnt act on this. They were disorganised. 
He agreed that the transfer was complicated and Firm A may have made some 
errors, but these were put right relatively quickly.
He still thought that James Hay unreasonably delayed the transfer of his funds. As 
his funds were in cash for some of this time he has lost out on investment growth. 
The transfer of the second part of his funds (to Firm B) was also not processed 
quickly. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties to the complaint have provided a lot of information and commentary about this 
series of transfers. But both parties are also aware of the full facts and detail of this situation, 
so I dont need to repeat everything here. So, Ill only provide a summary of what has led me 
to reach my conclusions below. But I wanted to assure both sides that, although I wont 
reproduce much of it here, I have read and considered all of the information that has been 
provided as part of this complaint. 
Ive firstly looked at the documentation Ive been provided about the original transfer of the 
SIPP to James Hay in 2015. This does explain the charges that would be taken from Mr Hs 
SIPP going forward. I can see that he did receive and consider this, as he had some 
questions about it. As far as I can see James Hay hasnt incorrectly charged Mr H. So, I 
dont think its reasonable to say that Mr H was misled about this when the SIPP was 
transferred to James Hay. 
Turning now the transfer Mr H wanted to make in 2019. 
Ill firstly say that pension transfers are not always straightforward or quick. The business 
transferring the pension should take steps to ensure the scheme where the proceeds are 
ending up is reasonable and proper. And the transfer needs to be processed correctly. This 
is particularly important if the transfer concerns a significant amount of money, and a range 
of differing investments, as was the case here. 
That said this transfer did take a long time to fully complete. But, in order to uphold the 
complaint made against James Hay, I need to be able to say that its actions, or inactions, 
were the main cause of this delay. And if it had acted differently the transfer would have 
progressed in a timelier manner. 
Although the fund was initially held only with James Hay it was eventually transferred in 
separate parts to two different schemes. This was effectively two transfers and Ive looked at 
each separately. I realise that the second transfer only came about as the first one wasnt 
able to complete fully. But I dont think it is unreasonable to look at them this way. 
The largest and first transfer went to Firm A. From what Ive seen there are two main 
reasons why this transfer took a long time. The first one is that James Hay didnt receive fully 
completed transfer forms. Whilst this transfer was started in December 2019, I can see that 
James Hay didnt receive fully, and correctly, completed transfer instructions until April 2020, 
almost four months later. Again, as Ive outlined above, James Hay needed to ensure that it was properly acting on Mr Hs instructions, but if it wasnt entirely clear what these 
instructions were then it was right that this was clarified before going ahead with the transfer. 
The second reason that the transfer took a long time is that Firm A was unable to hold one of 
the investments that was held in the James Hay SIPP. Whilst the transfer instruction 
problem, and this issue, took place at the same time. This seems to be the main reason why 
the transfer in its entirety took a longer time. I think its fair to say that all the parties were 
trying to resolve this, but it wasnt straightforward at all. And I note this was ultimately 
unsuccessful in respect of the transfer to Firm A. Again, I dont think James Hay was the 
main cause of this situation, or the delay that resulted from this. 
So, I dont think anything James Hay did, or didnt do, was the main cause of the delays in 
the SIPP transfer to Firm A. 
In respect of the transfer to Firm B this request was received in September 2020. As this 
involved a second business it was essentially the process starting again. It is reasonable that 
James Hay completed new due diligence checks in respect of Firm B. Looking at this 
another way it wouldnt have been reasonable for James Hay to send Mr Hs funds to a third 
party without making these checks. And it seems again it wasnt entirely clear to James Hay 
exactly what instructions Mr H had given, or he needed to give. And this was still related, in 
some ways to the investment that he was having problems transferring away. Again, I dont 
think this was due to anything James Hay did or didnt do.  
As far as I can see, whilst this was not an especially quick process, there werent any delays 
on the part of James Hay. The transfer was completed in early February 2021. 
So, again, I dont think anything James Hay did, or didnt do, was the main cause of any 
delays in the SIPP transfer to Firm B. 
Overall, and whilst I can see this was a frustrating time for Mr H, I dont think I can say that 
the delay in this transfer was caused, in the main, by the actions or inactions of James Hay. 
So, I dont think it is responsible for any investment loss Mr H may have suffered when the 
fund was in cash. 
James Hay has said that it should have communicated with Mr H better over the time the 
transfers were ongoing. And I dont disagree that it could have done this. But I think the offer 
it has made to refund the fees and charges he paid for the year when the transfer took place 
is reasonable.
Putting things right
IPS Pensions Limited should pay Mr H £189. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I agree that Mr Hs complaint should be partly upheld. 
If Mr H accepts this decision, then IPS Pensions Limited should put things right by doing 
what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Andy BurlinsonOmbudsman