DRN-3173660
The complaint
Miss D  complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to accept her rejection of a faulty 
car.
What happened
In November 2020 Miss D  acquired a second hand car costing £15,000. It was some eight 
years old and had covered 97,489 miles. The car was replacement for another supplied by 
the dealer which wasnt satisfactory. The acquisition was funded by a conditional sale 
agreement.
Some seven weeks later the car broke down. Miss D  says that a rear door wouldnt unlock 
and this was repaired by a garage engaged by the dealer. Shortly afterwards there were 
issues with the reversing camera and it went into limp mode due to unknown sensors. These 
issues were repaired by the garage. Later the car went into limp mode again due to a pin 
hole in a hose. The car was taken back to the dealer. Miss D  says that it agreed to take it 
back but then refused to do so. Miss D  had covered some 8,000 miles in three months. The 
car was repaired though Miss D  says she didnt authorise this.  
In February 2021 Miss D  complained to Moneybarn. It arranged for an independent 
inspection. The inspector concluded 
We would conclude that we were able to demonstrate a fault on the vehicle, this being 
leakage from the positive terminal on the battery and also a brake judder and abnormal 
noise from the offside front. However, based on the evidence available to ourselves at the 
time of our inspection and on engineering facts we do not consider the faults to have been 
present or developing at the point of finance inception and subsequently is not the selling 
agents responsibility in our opinion.
Moneybarn said that it didnt consider rejection was appropriate, but it recognised it had 
taken some time to resolve the complaint and offered Miss D  £120 compensation and it also 
offed to make a good will payment to cover the cost of a new battery. Miss D  didnt accept 
this. She had also refused to collect the car from the garage which had started to charge 
storage fees. Moneybarn paid these and moved the car to one of its agents storage 
facilities.
Miss D  brough the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She agreed that there had been issue with 
that car, but wasnt persuaded that it was faulty at the point of sale. She noted it covered 
some 8,000 miles from acquisition before Miss D  had identified any faults and that the 
independent assessor had concluded the car wasnt faulty at the point of sale. She said Miss 
D  had authorised repairs which appeared to have been successful and she thought the offer 
made by Moneybarn to be fair.
Miss D  didnt agree and said that she had two cars from the dealer which had broken down 
so she should have the right to reject this one. She said the car should be able to handle the 
mileage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale, in this case is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
To uphold Miss D s complaint, I have to be satisfied that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the 
point of sale. To reach that conclusion I need some supporting evidence.
The car was fairly elderly and had covered a high mileage therefore it is to be expected that 
it would suffer from wear and tear. It did have some issues shortly after the sale, but these 
arose more than 30 days later and so the dealer was entitled to an opportunity to effect 
repairs.
This it has done and according to the independent assessor the repairs have been effective. 
I appreciate Miss D  wasnt happy with the car, but if she had taken the car back and had 
found these repairs not to be satisfactory then I might be in a position to uphold her 
complaint. However, she chose not to collect the car.
On one side we have the evidence that the car did suffer from some faults, but nobody has 
identified that these were present when the car was sold. Although the first issue arose after 
some seven weeks the car had covered a very high mileage in that time, close to the 
mileage many cars cover in a year and so it makes it difficult to say that the faults were 
present when the car was sold.
The independent assessor didnt think that the car was faulty at the point of sale and I would 
need persuasive evidence to allow me to say his expert analysis was wrong. This has been 
reinforced by the MOT which was carried out in October 2021 with the car having covered 
108,749 miles at that point. It passed without advisories having failed initially due to a bonnet 
catch issue. 
Furthermore, the garage which carried out the repairs inspected the car and identified a list 
of issues, most of which were due to wear and tear.  I can see nothing in that list which 
would be of a nature that would suggest rejection as a suitable outcome. The issues were remedied relatively easily.
The complaint is about the second car and not the first and I can only consider the facts 
surrounding that car. I appreciate Miss D  will be disappointed with my decision, but I do not 
consider that I can uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has already made an offer to pay £275 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should pay £275 if it has not already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman