DRN-4355167
The complaint
Mr R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc hasnt done enough to assist him in 
recovering money he paid using his credit card for a flight booking that he cancelled.
What happened
In early November 2022 Mr R booked a flight with an airline F using the services of a third 
party online travel company E. He paid E a little over £700. This comprised the flight ticket, 
travel insurance and a one-off fee to reduce the costs associated with additional services 
such as ticket changes, cancellation charges, and special meals.
Shortly before Mr R was due to travel he contacted E to amend his booking as he was 
unable to make the flight. He says he was quoted a significantly higher price for alternative 
dates, and  having found cheaper flights for a couple of months later  he sought to cancel 
his booking. He asked E for a refund, but this wasnt forthcoming.
Mr R approached Capital One for assistance in recovering his money, referencing the 
additional services hed paid for believing they would cover this situation. But after asking 
Mr R for further information about the booking, Capital One told Mr R it couldnt help. Mr R 
was unhappy with this, and with the fact that Capital One had continued to call him and seek 
payment in relation to the transaction. Capital One said it was appropriate to do this, and 
didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think she could uphold Mr Rs complaint. She noted the reasons 
Capital One had given for not pursuing a chargeback claim, and considered it had been 
reasonable for the bank to take that decision. The investigator noted that, as Mr R had paid 
by credit card, there was a possibility that Mr R might have been able to raise a claim under 
the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75). However, she wasnt persuaded E had a liability to refund Mr R; this was the 
responsibility of F, or alternatively, his travel insurer.
Mr R maintains that he has a legal right to cancel and receive a refund. He further believes 
he should be able to have a refund under the additional services package he bought along 
with his tickets.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt Mr Rs strength of feeling. That comes across clearly in his correspondence 
with E, with Capital One, and in response to our investigators assessment. But having 
considered all thats been said and provided, Im afraid Im going to again disappoint Mr R 
when I say Im satisfied Capital One has responded fairly and reasonably to his claim. Ill 
explain why.
Mr R booked flights through E, rather than a package travel contract. That means that its the 
airline (or airlines) that are responsible for performance of the flights, and (as Es terms and 
conditions note) the provision of any refund in the event of Mr R cancelling the flights. One of 
the key questions in considering the dispute, then, is whether Mr R was contractually entitled 
to a refund on cancelling. I can see that in the course of Mr Rs claim Capital One asked him 
for details about the flight arrangements and cancellation terms. Although he provided some 
information, such as screenshots of his booking, this wasnt enough to establish he was 
entitled to a refund. So I can see why Capital One didnt progress his claim.
Another way Mr R might have been entitled to get his money back is where the law provides 
for this to happen in the event of cancellation. He has mentioned consumer law in his 
submissions. Ive already mentioned that Mr R didnt book a package travel contract. So the 
cancellation provisions of the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 
2018 dont apply to his booking.
Unfortunately, nor do the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional 
Charges) Regulations 2013 (CCR), which can sometimes provide for a standard 
cancellation period. Thats primarily because the right to cancel afforded under Part 3 of the 
CCR doesnt apply to passenger transport services. Its worth noting that even if this right to 
cancel did apply to Mr Rs transaction, the CCR provides for a 14-day period from entry into 
the contract. Mr R cancelled outside this timeframe.
With this in mind, I cant see a basis on which Mr R has demonstrated he has a contractual 
or statutory right to receive a full refund on cancellation. The additional services he 
purchased do reference charges for changes or cancellation, and Im conscious of Mr Rs 
belief that this should entitle him to a refund. I dont think thats the correct reading. From 
what I can see, the payment Mr R made for the additional services didnt mean he would 
become entitled to a refund; simply that he wouldnt need to pay E any additional charges for 
changing or cancelling his flights. It didnt provide a guarantee that alternative flights would 
be provided at the same cost.
I note Mr Rs transaction included a sum relating to travel insurance. As our investigator 
mentioned, it is open to Mr R to see whether the policy he purchased entitles him to make a 
claim. I dont know the full circumstances that led to Mr R having to cancel, so its not for me 
to speculate on this point. All I can add is that whether or not the policy covers those 
circumstances, it wouldnt give rise to a successful claim against Capital One as it wouldnt 
be covered under section 75. The cost of the policy doesnt fall within the financial limits that 
apply to section 75.
Given that Ive concluded Capital One hasnt acted unfairly in its handling of Mr Rs claim, it 
follows that the bank was entitled to expect Mr R to make payments in line with his credit 
agreement. Where he didnt do so, its not unreasonable for Capital One to seek payment or 
to alert him to the arrears developing on his account. While as Ive said, I appreciate Mr Rs 
strength of feeling and that he feels hard done by, that doesnt mean he could withhold 
payment without any consequence.
I should make clear that my findings dont mean Mr R isnt under any circumstances entitled 
to a refund. It may be that he has a claim against F (or any other airline involved) if his 
agreements with them provide for this in the event of him cancelling. He might wish to look 
further into this possibility. However, my role isnt to consider that aspect. Rather, its to 
consider what, if any, obligation Capital One has to reimburse or compensate him. For the 
reasons Ive set out here, Ive concluded it has none.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman