DRN-3449737
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the way that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as 
Littlewoods, has dealt with the payments that shes made to her account. Shes being helped 
with her complaint by her daughter.
What happened
Mrs L says that shes been a customer of Littlewoods for more than twenty years but is 
concerned about the way that its allocating her payments to her account  she says it 
seems to be allocating them to whatever items it like and not chronologically. She 
complained to Littlewoods but is said that her account was correct and there had been no 
business error. It said that there was no way to target a payment to a specific item on the 
standard account. Mrs L wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. She 
says that she just wants to pay what she owes - no more or no less  but Littlewoods has 
given her wrong information and she made a data subject access request but there are 
months of missing data.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She said that 
shed reviewed the account statements that Littlewoods had provided and the payments 
were being allocated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account  so she 
couldnt say that it had acted unfairly. 
Mrs Ls daughter, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She says that Mrs L has always paid more than the minimum payment and 
knows that shes cleared items from her account well within the time frame but is still being 
charged for them by Littlewoods. She says that Mrs L asked for details of her account going 
back to 2018 as thats when it appears that the issues started but it couldnt fully provide it 
and theres a period of six months that has been blacked out and that when she phoned it 
there were many discrepancies between items and amounts, some of which were changed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the terms and conditions of the account set out the order in which payments to the 
account are allocated against payments and charges and Littlewoods has provided 
extracts from its system notes which show how payments have been allocated to 
Mrs Ls account;
Littlewoods had also provided statements for Mrs Ls account from March 2018 but 
those statements do appear to be incomplete and I can understand the frustration 
that that has caused to Mrs L and her daughter;
they clearly feel strongly that Littlewoods hasnt allocated Mrs Ls payments correctly 
and that shes paid more interest than she should have done but, from the 
information that Littlewoods has provided, I consider that Littlewoods has applied the 
payments from Mrs L to her account in the order set out in the account terms and 
conditions;
Mrs L isnt able to target a payment to a specific item on the account and payments 
arent applied chronologically  they are allocated in the order set out in the terms 
and conditions;
Im not persuaded that Mrs L and her daughter have provided enough evidence to 
show that Littlewoods has made errors in the allocation of Mrs Ls payments to her 
account, that the account is incorrect, or that it has treated Mrs L unfairly or 
unreasonably; and
I sympathise with Mrs L for the issues that shes experienced but I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Littlewoods to change 
the way that its allocated payments to her account, to refund any payments to her, to 
pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman