DRN-2235546
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society incorrectly reported arrears to the credit 
reference agencies in relation to her current account from November 2016 onwards. 
What happened
Miss S had an account with Nationwide and in August 2015 the balance entered an 
unarranged overdraft. The account remained in its unarranged overdraft until October 2016 
when Miss R repaid the outstanding balance in full. 
Last year, Miss S found that Nationwide had continued to report that her account was in 
arrears, despite having repaid the outstanding balance. Miss S complained and Nationwide 
responded on 15 November 2019. Nationwide apologised and agreed the information 
reported wasnt right. Nationwide said it would amend Miss S credit file and paid her £150.
Miss S checked her credit file again and found that Nationwide was still reporting adverse 
information. Miss S complained and Nationwide responded on 21 February 2020, explaining 
that a systems issue had led to the problem. Nationwide said that the best option, going 
forward, was for the account to be closed and a new one opened to replace it. Nationwide 
said it would amend the information reported for December 2019 and January 2020 and paid 
Miss S £100. 
Miss S referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. Nationwide 
has confirmed that Miss S closed her account in March 2020. The investigator upheld 
Miss S complaint as, despite previous assurances, Nationwide was still incorrectly reporting 
adverse information. The investigator asked Nationwide to amend Miss S credit file and 
increase the award by £300 to a total figure of £550. 
Nationwide agreed, but Miss S didnt accept. She thought Nationwides offer should be 
increased to take into account the problems experienced trying to obtain credit since 
November 2016. As Miss S didnt accept, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss S is upset. Nationwide has made repeated and longstanding 
errors in relation to the information it reports about Miss S to the credit reference agencies. 
Even after Miss S complained twice, and referred her concerns to us, Nationwide continued 
to report incorrect information about her. 
Nationwide has accepted it has made mistakes and told us it will amend Miss S credit file to 
remove the incorrect information it reported after she repaid the unarranged overdraft. I 
agree that Nationwide needs to remove any trace of adverse information it has reported from 
November 2016 onwards. Once Nationwide has done that, it should put Miss S credit file 
back into the position it would have been in had no errors been made. 
Nationwide has agreed to increase the compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by £300, taking the total award to £550. Miss S says she feels £3,000 is a fairer 
figure due to the problems she has faced obtaining credit. I recently asked Miss S to provide 
a full copy of her credit report. It doesnt show a large level of adverse credit but it does show 
that Miss S had significant arrears on her Nationwide account in 2016 as well as arrears with 
a mobile phone provider in 2013, 2014 and 2015. 
Miss S has told us she faced problems obtaining credit and that she feels this was caused 
due to the incorrectly registered arrears. Miss S recently made the point that whilst there 
were arrears on her Nationwide account, they were limited to 2016. Miss S feels the more 
recent arrears would have had a greater impact. 
I take Miss S point, but the credit file doesnt show Miss S has been repeatedly rejected for 
credit in the last 12 months (which is how long the record of searches goes back). I can also 
see that Miss S successfully obtained two credit cards in 2018, albeit from lenders who will 
normally accept a low level of adverse credit. 
Whilst I agree that the information Nationwide incorrectly reported could have impacted other 
businesses decisions to decline Miss S applications for credit, I think the genuine adverse 
information about the unarranged overdraft would also have been taken into account. Im 
sorry to disappoint Miss S but I havent been persuaded that applications were declined 
solely or predominantly on the basis of the wrong information Nationwide reported. 
Nationwide has agreed to pay Miss S £550 total compensation. I agree the situation has 
been distressing and that Nationwide has made longstanding errors. Im sorry to disappoint 
Miss S but Im satisfied that the £550 compensation it has agreed to pay fairly reflects the 
impact of Nationwides errors on her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Miss S £550 (less any compensation already paid) and amend Miss S credit to remove any 
adverse information reported from November 2016 onwards. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman