DRN-3657298
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was provided with negligent advice by M&S Financial Solutions Ltd, 
an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (referred to throughout as Pi) which has 
caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
The complaint was brought on Mr Hs behalf by a claims management company however for 
the purposes of clarity I will refer to all correspondence as having been received from Mr H.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr H met with an adviser from Pi in order to review a pension arrangement with 
Aviva which he had forgotten he had until he found some old correspondence relating to it.
At the time he was aged 66, married and already retired. The file confirms that the Mr H had 
completed his own cash flow forecast and was confident of having surplus income 
throughout retirement. An appendix of the suitability report shows him as having pension 
income of £650 per month and £5,000 per month from loan repayments. Expenditure was 
stated to be £1,200 per month. His state pension entitlement is unclear as the report states 
that Mr H should check his national insurance contributions to make sure he qualified for full 
state pension, although the fact find states that Mr H and his spouse believed that they 
would receive a full state pension.
  
Mr Hs attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed to be adventurous following completion of a set 
of risk profiling questions, and discussion with the adviser. It is stated that he regarded his 
Aviva pension as a bonus (as he had forgotten about it) and therefore was willing to take a 
higher level of risk with it. Due to his income needs being met by other sources, it is stated 
that this fund was surplus to his requirements and he could therefore afford to take this 
higher level of risk. 
The Aviva pension was worth approximately £75,800 and had no transfer penalties. It was 
invested in the Aviva defined benefit (DB) Replacement scheme, which was a scheme set 
up to buy out the benefits that had been available to Mr H under a previous DB pension 
scheme. The suitability report confirms that because the plan was a buy out bond it had a 
guaranteed income available on the GMP element (just over £73,000), which was £2,364 
per year. This compared to £2,232 which would have been available on the open market 
(although Pi later corrected its comparison figure to £1,998).  
Mr H wanted to take tax free cash from the pension and review how he could best take 
money on a flexible basis. His intentions for the tax free cash have not been recorded, nor 
the reason he wanted to have access to flexible income. 
Pi recommended that the Aviva pension was transferred to a SIPP with Gaudi and invested 
on a discretionary basis within the Mercantile Invest Adventurous funds with Agincourt as the 
Discretionary Investment Manager. He was sent a suitability report confirming the 
recommendation dated 8 November 2017. He was charged an initial fee of 1.5% and an 
ongoing advice charge of 0.5%
A file note dated October 2017 outlines the discussion with Mr H about the Mercantile 
discretionary fund management (DFM) proposition, and details the reasons it was 
considered appropriate. It states Client liked the various components of the fund including 
ETFs (which I explained) and the fact they are prepared to alter a portfolio shows a flexible 
approach which would not be found in larger fund manager holdings. It explains that fund 
choices were discussed at length and Mr H thought the recommended investment 
proposition was a good alternative approach to a normal fund managers approach. 
The suitability report in the appendix sets out the costs of establishing and administering the 
pension. However it did not fully disclose the total costs associated with the 
recommendation, particularly the investment costs. 
The file note states that a SIPP had been selected as it offered flexibility on how benefits are 
drawn, and the fact they have online access by clients so they can find out how their 
pensions are performing. Mr H transferred his Aviva pension in line with the 
recommendation.
In March 2020, Mr H transferred his pension away from Gaudi to an alternative provider. 
Mr H complained to Pi about the advice he was given to transfer his Aviva plan. It did not 
uphold the complaint. Mr H referred his complaint to us.
Our investigators initial view upheld the complaint in part. The investigator decided that the 
transfer to the SIPP itself was not unsuitable, however the recommendation to utilise the 
Mercantile Invest DFM adventurous portfolio incurred additional cost unnecessarily and was 
therefore unsuitable. Mr H accepted the investigators view. Pi did not respond to accept or 
reject the view within the investigators timescales and therefore the complaint was referred 
to me for a final decision. Pi has since responded with its reasons why it thinks the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint is lengthy and highlights a number of issues. Ive considered what I 
understand to be the key complaint point, namely whether a recommendation to transfer 
from Mr Hs Aviva pension to a SIPP (to be invested via a DFM) was suitable. Having 
reviewed the file and considered Mr Hs circumstances, I agree with the investigators view, 
that the transfer to the SIPP was suitable but that the investment recommendation was not 
appropriate. 
When considering whether it was appropriate for Pi to have recommended that Mr H transfer 
his benefits from his Aviva pension arrangement to a personal pension and invest via a DFM 
portfolio, I have considered the relevant rules and guidance in place at the time, alongside 
Mr Hs circumstances, objectives and previous knowledge and experience. 
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time, and carefully considered the additional submissions made 
by Pi. The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Pi advised Mr H were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Pi, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients 
needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their 
investment objective and risk profile. I have considered whether Pi gathered the necessary information required to make a 
recommendation for Mr H, and I am not persuaded that they did. COBS 9.2.1R states; 
When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm must 
obtain the necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type 
of designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him 
At the time of the advice, Pi gathered information relating to Mr Hs income and objectives. 
However, whilst they did document the income being received at that time, they have not 
established a sufficient level of detail to allow a robust recommendation to be made. Firstly, 
relating to his financial situation, Mr H was receiving £5,000 per month as a loan repayment. 
However, Pi have not established how long this income would continue. The fact find states 
term not disclosed but believed to be over several years. As this income would have been 
likely to be central to Mr H meeting his income needs throughout retirement, ascertaining 
how long it would last would have been a key factor in assessing any dependency Mr H may 
have had on the income available from his Aviva plan and, therefore, how much risk he 
could reasonably take with that pension. Alongside this, the fact find states that Mr H and his 
wife both had pension income of £650. There is no detail relating to this, however based on 
their ages at the time the fact find was completed (April 2017), it is more likely than not that 
this was the state pension. 
The file notes dated October 2017 state that the client was experienced in relation to 
pensions and investments, however there are no details of how this experience was gained. 
At that time Mr H had cash savings but no investments, and his only recorded pension was 
the one being transferred. I am therefore not satisfied that Pi went far enough in establishing 
Mr Hs experience, and gathering information to support the assessment of him as an 
experienced investor.
Mr Hs objectives were not clearly detailed, and were stated to be to use his pensions in a 
tax efficient manner and to take the maximum tax free cash. The suitability report also states 
that in later years you wish to have the opportunity to draw monies when required. Having 
considered this, I do not think that the objectives contain a sufficient level of detail for a 
robust recommendation to be made. Whilst Mr H appears to have had the attitude that his 
pension was surplus to his requirements as he had forgotten about it, Pi (in their role as his 
professional adviser) had a duty of care to understand any reliance M H may have had on 
the Aviva pension in retirement, alongside a thorough understanding of his circumstances 
and objectives, and to use this information to make a recommendation that was in Mr Hs 
best interests. I do not believe that Pi have gone far enough in doing this, and done enough 
to meet the requirements of COBS 9 as detailed above.
I recognise Mr H may not have been particularly forthcoming on his financial affairs. But I 
dont think Pi should not have made a recommendation without having done more to obtain 
the missing information above. It means Pi have not met the COBS requirements to 
demonstrate how the recommendation to transfer was in Mr Hs best interests.  
When considering whether a transfer to a personal pension or SIPP was appropriate, I must 
consider whether the transfer offered a benefit to Mr H which would not have been available 
to him if he had retained his previous plan. Mr Hs main recorded objective was for flexibility. 
This would not have been available in his previous plan which would have provided an 
annuity income for the rest of his life due to the majority of the fund being required to provide the GMP income. Although the reasons why Mr H wanted flexibility were not recorded, and 
the sustainability of income from a loan not probed, it seems to me that the Aviva pension 
did represent a pension that Mr H hadnt factored into his retirement planning, and his 
outgoings were  for the time being at least  comfortably being met. In that light, I dont 
think the greater flexibility offered by the SIPP was unsuitable. It would have given Mr H the 
opportunity to spend his windfall pension in the way he saw fit and doing so wouldnt have 
compromised his financial health in retirement.    
However, I dont think the DFM arrangement was suitable. At the time the recommendation 
was made, the suitability report stated the charges for the new recommended funds are 
higher than those with Aviva but you believe that these will be recovered by higher growth 
although not guaranteed. However, I dont think that higher growth could be relied upon and 
couldnt reasonably be used as a reason for Pi to recommend the DFM arrangement. The 
higher costs of a DFM arrangement can be justified if someone has a particular need for the 
features they bring; for instance, if someone has particularly bespoke investment needs. But 
I cant see why Mr H would have had a particular need for the features of a DFM 
arrangement given his needs and circumstances. Theres a file note from September 2017 
that references the fact that this particular discretionary fund manager was more nimble 
than larger competitors. But I havent seen anything to show the financial benefit this would 
likely have brought Mr H or whether it would have been financially worthwhile to transfer 
because of it. And I havent seen any other feature of the DFM arrangement that would have 
particularly appealed to Mr H or which couldnt be accessed through more traditional pooled 
funds at a lower cost. All things considered, therefore, I dont think I can reasonably say the 
DFM recommendation was suitable. 
Furthermore, I have considered whether Mr H was fully aware of the level of the charges of 
the DFM recommended. The suitability report outlines the administration cost of the SIPP. 
However it does not fully state the investment management charges or include any sort of 
useful comparison of costs and what the impact of those costs would likely be over time. I 
consider this is a failing in itself under the regulators principles (most notably PRIN 7) but it 
feeds into the lack of suitability of the recommendation because it wouldnt have been 
particularly clear at the time to the parties what drag on performance the charging structure 
of the DFM would have caused and whether that would have been acceptable to Mr H. In 
the circumstances, its difficult to conclude Mr H was given the information he needed or that 
the DFM arrangement was suitable.  
For the reasons stated above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. I agree with the 
Investigators view that given Mr Hs situation and circumstances the transfer to the SIPP 
was suitable. I also agree that Mr H did not need to invest his transferred fund in a DFM 
arrangement, and by doing so has incurred additional charges unnecessarily which cannot 
be justified. I believe it would have been more appropriate for Mr H to have been 
recommended to invest in a less complex solution which would have been available to him 
at a lower cost. Had Pis recommendation been along these lines, Ive seen no persuasive 
reason why Mr H would have gone against that advice and insisted on utilising a DFM 
arrangement.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any additional compensation. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest it 
should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
compensation
Gaudi SIPP Transferred FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Growth Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased to 
be heldUse the 
benchmark 
index on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement.Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Gaudi SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept a higher degree of investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Growth total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Growth total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly global and UK equities. It would be a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take a higher level of risk to get a 
higher return.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay the amount calculated 
as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman