DRN-4273767
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined a 
disability claim under her whole of life policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so it serves no purpose for me 
to repeat it in detail here. In summary Royal London declined a claim for total and permanent 
disability, as it assessed the claim under functional disability tests.
Our investigator didnt find that Royal London had done anything wrong and so didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mrs P appealed via her representative, but for simplicity I will just refer to Mrs P. She felt that 
her claim should have been assessed under suited occupation and not functional ability 
tests. She felt that the exclusion was an unfair term and that it wasnt referenced anywhere 
in the documentation that she had received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
It is not in dispute that Mrs P has been diagnosed with an illness the symptoms of 
which are unlikely to improve, and which prevents her from working in her 
occupation.
However her policy was set up on a functional ability tests basis, rather than an 
occupation basis. In accordance with the policy term Royal London assessed Mrs Ps 
claim on this basis. To succeed she needed to show her disablement was irreversible 
with no reasonable prospect of there being any improvement. She also needed to 
show she was unable to perform two out of the five listed tests without the help of 
another person but with the use of assistive aids and appliances. As the evidence 
didnt show she met the criteria Royal London declined her claim  I dont find that 
was unfair.
I havent disregarded Mrs Ps submission that she was unaware her policy was set 
up on this basis in 1998. But in this decision, Im not considering the sale of the policy 
as it was not carried out by Royal London, but by an independent financial adviser. I 
can see an illustration was prepared for Mrs P in March 1998 indicating disability 
cover was on a suited occupation basis. But when the policy was underwritten the 
policy summary, under Policy Options  Changes  states Occupational benefits 
have been declined. Mrs P signed this document on 11 June 1998. Accordingly, Im 
satisfied that it was fair to assess the claim on this basis and in accordance with the 
terms that Mrs P had agreed to. For completeness I would add that the relevant 
regulations say that Royal London must not unfairly decline a claim. I dont find that 
there was a breach of the regulation here nor do I find that the definition of disability 
is itself unfair. 
Im sorry that this decision doesnt bring Mrs P more welcome news, but for the 
reasons given I dont find that Royal London have treated her unfairly, contrary to her 
policy terms or law by declining her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman