DRN-1890255
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the amount the insurer QIC Europe Ltd paid to settle his claim 
for alternative accommodation costs when he made a claim under his home insurance 
policy. 
All references to QIC Europe Ltd in my decision include its agents.
What happened
In May 2019 the property next door to Mr Ps home was damaged by fire and Mr P and his 
family had to move out of their home. They moved in with relatives and Mr P made a claim 
under his home insurance policy with QIC. 
QIC settled Mr Ps claim for alternative accommodation costs by paying a total of £1,433.75. 
It said it applied an equivalent local monthly rental rate of £825 a month and paid for seven 
weeks. 
Mr P complained to QIC. He said it cost £600 a week for his relatives to accommodate his 
family for the seven weeks. He said he based this figure on the costs of a local hotel. He 
didnt agree with the sum QIC used for a local rental as he said he couldnt find anything 
suitable which was fully furnished when he looked. Mr P wanted QIC to increase the 
settlement to the equivalent of £600 a week for the duration of their stay with relatives. 
QIC didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said it had paid a fair and reasonable sum. So Mr P 
asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator asked Mr P if he had any proof that he paid his relatives £600 a week while 
staying there. But Mr P said he couldnt afford to pay his relatives as he was paying bills for 
their home. He intended to pay his relatives when QIC made a fair offer. If theyd moved to 
hotel accommodation, Mr P said he would have had to pay for that by credit card. 
The investigator was satisfied that  based on the terms of the policy  QIC had paid a fair 
settlement and in line with rental properties in the area. Because Mr P told QIC hed moved 
in with relatives when he made his claim, he didnt think QIC had been unreasonable not to 
arrange alternative accommodation. 
As Mr P couldnt provide any evidence of the cost of £600 a week - which was far in excess 
of the rental equivalent - he didnt think QIC needed to increase the settlement it paid. 
Mr P didnt agree. Ive addressed the points he raised in my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. 
Mr Ps policy says in relation to a claim for alternative accommodation costs:
Alternative accommodation
We will pay up to £100,000 for:
i. the reasonable and necessary costs for alternative accommodation for you and 
your family, which we have agreed with you before you pay; and
ii. any ground rent which you may have to pay;
Mr P said hes spoken to his relatives and they will now be able to provide invoices to 
support his claim. He said he owes them £4,700. But he doesnt see why providing a piece 
of paper should make any difference. Mr P said he didnt pay the settlement of £1,433.75 to 
his relatives when he received it and accepts this was a mistake on his part. He said he 
intends to pay the full amount he owes to them.
Our investigator found examples of unfurnished rental properties in the local area in the 
region of the amount of £825 a month QIC used. And he explained that we know insurers 
can obtain favourable commercial rates with hotels and for rental properties with letting 
agents. Such agreements are commercially sensitive and so wouldnt be included in the 
policy terms.
Mr P believes QIC should provide proof that it could obtain favourable rates in order to show 
it settled his claim reasonably. And this should be set out under the policy. But I disagree. 
Part of the term states that QIC needs to agree the costs with Mr P before he pays. This is 
part of assessing what is fair and reasonable. And in all claims we think its reasonable to 
expect a customer to mitigate their losses. This means Mr P isnt entitled to the costs of what 
QIC might had paid for hotel or Bed and Breakfast accommodation if he hadnt stayed with 
relatives. QIC didnt agree with Mr P to meet his costs of £600 a week. 
I agree with Mr P that there is no benefit in providing an invoice from his relatives at this 
stage to support his claim. The amount Mr P wants QIC to pay is approximately three times 
the amount for a similar unfurnished property to rent locally. Even furnished  and not at 
favourable rates  I dont think the amount QIC paid is unreasonable. Im satisfied that QICs 
settlement to Mr P was fair. 
Mr P said alternative accommodation wasnt immediately offered as QIC hadnt validated the 
claim and they couldnt stay at home. But as the investigator explained, if Mr P had arranged 
alternative accommodation and provided proof of payment until the claim was validated, I 
would expect QIC to consider reimbursing Mr P for those costs. But this didnt happen  as 
Mr P told QIC hed made arrangements for his family to stay with relatives. 
I understand that having to make a claim and having to move out of home will cause 
considerable disruption. But based on everything Ive seen, I think QICs settlement for Mr 
Ps alternative accommodation costs under his claim was very reasonable. So Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman