DRN-3566101
The complaint
Ms H complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) havent treated her fairly in 
relation to her credit card debt, specifically they:
Said in their letter of 2 June 2021 theyd issue a default which, if this has happened, 
would damage her reputation
Passed her debt to external debt collection agents when she asked them not to
Sent two letters dated 14 July and 6 August 2021 which she didnt think they should 
have
Continued to charge interest up to the point of the account defaulting
What happened
Ms H raised a number of concerns with NatWest as Ive listed above.
NatWest said they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in defaulting Ms Hs account or 
passing it over to a debt collector. They understood Ms H thought it was a breach of 
General Data Protection Regulations for them to have passed her debt over to a debt 
collector, but NatWest said the terms and conditions allow them to do this. They also felt 
theyd answered her concerns and didnt think there were any issues with the two letters 
dated 14 July and 6 August 2021 Ms H had concerns about. Regarding the interest, 
NatWest explained the terms and conditions of the account explain theyll continue to charge 
interest on any outstanding balance.
Unhappy with this, Ms H asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
ultimately didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms H didnt accept this and raised a number of concerns  the main one being she was 
engaging with NatWest prior to the default being applied, but they did so anyway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Ms Hs complaint in considerably less detail than she has. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Said in their letter of 2 June 2021 theyd issue a default which, if this has happened, would 
damage her reputation
In April 2021 Ms Hs previous payment arrangement came to an end. Prior to this, shed 
been paying £1 a month towards her outstanding credit card debt.
Ive looked at Ms Hs statements, and these show for the months of May, June and 
July 2021 no payments were received. Im also aware no payment arrangement was put in 
place during this time either.
The Information Commissioners Office suggests the earliest a default should be registered is 
when an account is at least three months in arrears  and no more than six months. So, I 
cant reasonably say NatWest have acted incorrectly by recording a default when no 
payments had been received for three months prior to them doing so.
Ive noted Ms H says she was engaging with NatWest with a view to reaching a new 
payment agreement  and she was in the process of agreeing a new repayment plan. And 
shes said in the call on 28 May 2021 she tried to engage with NatWest, got nowhere, and 
raised a complaint.
On 2 June 2021 a Default Notice was issued which explained Ms H was in breach of the 
terms and conditions of her credit card account because she was in arrears by £772.03 and 
over the limit by £1,944.38. The letter explains Ms H can remedy this breach by repaying the 
arrears and bringing her account within the credit limit by 23 June 2021. As Ive set out 
above, no payments were received during this time.
One of the consequences set out in this letter is that the account could be terminated  
which is what NatWest did in their letter of 28 June 2021. This letter explained the full 
balance was now owing and needed to be repaid within 28 days. This meant Ms H had until 
26 July 2021 to repay the balance in full at this point, or a default would be recorded.
No payment was made by 26 July 2021. So, the account was defaulted shortly afterwards.
I do understand Ms H was keen on putting in place another payment plan  and NatWests 
letters do say they may be able to agree a new payment plan. But I think the only way to 
have prevented the default being applied was for the arrears / over limit amount to have 
been repaid  as another payment arrangement wouldnt have stopped the default unless 
this happened.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Ms H was in a position to afford this  so even if Ms H and 
NatWest had further conversations (either on 28 May when she originally called or at any 
time in-between), and potentially agreed a repayment plan, I think the default would still have 
been applied. Because of that, I wont be asking NatWest to remove the default.
Passed her debt to external debt collection agents when she asked them not to
I do understand Ms Hs frustration about her debt being passed on to a debt collector  but 
this is something NatWest set out in their terms and conditions that theyre allowed to do, 
and is quite commonplace when someone falls behind on their repayments and / or has had 
a default applied.
My understanding is the debt collectors are acting on NatWests behalf  so Id expect the 
debt still to show as with NatWest  not the debt collector. I know Ms H was worried about 
this so I wanted to explain that. I do though need to make it clear if NatWest had sold her 
debt to a debt collector, which would then show them instead of NatWest on her credit file, 
its likely Id be unable to say theyd done anything wrong. The terms and conditions of the 
account allow NatWest to sell on debts if they choose to. 
Sent two letters dated 14 July and 6 August 2021 which she didnt think they should haveThe letter dated 14 July 2021 gave Ms Hs account number, the current balance of 
£12,172.61, the amount of arrears of £1,040.78, and said:
Despite numerous reminders, you have failed to settle or to make mutually acceptable 
repayment arrangements.
We must inform you therefore, that unless you telephone us onimmediately with your 
proposals or repayment, the debt will be referred to an external debt recover agent for 
collection.
Ms H has said she found this letter threatening and didnt think it should have been sent.
I can understand it would have been disappointing for Ms H to have received this letter. By 
this time shed raised a number of concerns about NatWests actions  particularly in the call 
on 28 May 2021.
But I dont agree this letter is threatening from an objective point of view. At this time, Ms H 
hasnt made any payments to the account in May and June. I think given the severity of what 
might happen its important for NatWest to set out the consequences of non-payment. I also 
cant ignore that by the time Ms H received this letter shed had the letters dated 2 and 
28 June 2021 I referenced above  both of which also told her who to contact and how to 
pay the outstanding debt. So, before this letter was issued, Ms H did have multiple 
opportunities to contact NatWest again to discuss repaying the debt but hadnt done so.
The letter dated 6 August 2021 again provided the account number and amount outstanding 
(which was now £12,429.09) and said:
We have been unable to contact you or agree a suitable repayment plan therefore your 
account details have been passed to Z(NatWests debt collector) to act as a collection 
agent and they will now be dealing with your account.
Z will be in contact with you during the next 14 days by letter to confirm receipt of your 
details. They will then look to discuss your repayment options in detail. 
If you need to contact them before this time, their telephone number is
Ms Hs concerns about this letter include that two days prior, on 4 August 2021, she was told 
to contact NatWests collections department to discuss repayment proposals  and then this 
letter says the debt has been passed on to NatWests debt collectors. Shes also unhappy 
the letter refers to not being able to contact her  when shed had three phone calls and sent 
them two letters by this time.
I do think this is confusing and unsatisfactory. In the space of three days Ms H is given 
conflicting information about who to contact to arrangement repayment proposals  and the 
letter could have been worded better by acknowledging there had been contact, but no 
repayment proposals had been agreed.
I understand Ms Hs viewpoint on this to be that she was unable to agree a repayment 
proposal because of how the call on 28 May 2021 was handled. But, at the time of the 
August 2021 letters Ms H had been told her account had been defaulted. Its clear from her 
letters she didnt want to engage with the debt collector  so following this she contacted 
NatWest anyway. Because of that although I think there was some confusion over the 
different instructions (contacting collections vs contacting the debt collector), and the letter 
says theyve tried to contact her but havent reached her, I think Ms H would have only contacted NatWest anyway. So, although some confusion was caused, I dont think this has 
led to Ms H doing anything different than she otherwise would have.
Continued to charge interest up to the point of the account defaulting
Ms H had a credit card account with NatWest, on which there was an outstanding balance. 
The terms and conditions of the account explain theyll charge interest on anything charged 
to the card until the amounts are repaid.
As Ive seen there was an outstanding balance on the account., I cant reasonably say 
NatWest have done anything wrong by continuing to charge interest until the account was 
defaulted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman