DRN-3735684
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as 
Likely Loans, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Likely Loans here is a table of the approved loans for Mr W. 
Loan Date taken Amount to 
repayTerm in 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentCapital 
amountDate repaid
1 06/10/2016 £1,465 24 £61.07 £1,000 12/03/2018
2 23/06/2018 £639 12 £53.25 £500 October 
2021
Likely Loans sent to Mr W its final response letter (FRL) in which it gave detailed 
explanations as to the checks it had carried out before lending to Mr W, and did not think it 
had done anything wrong.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint after Mr W had referred it to us and she 
came to the same conclusion. She though that Likely Loans had carried out proportionate 
checks and the information it had before lending indicated that Mr W could afford them.
Mr Ws representative asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out  our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Likely Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Likely Loans did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payments he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to approach the loan application from the 
perspective of the likelihood of getting its money back. Likely Loans had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific 
circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
I have looked at the application information Mr W gave to Likely Loans and for loan 1 he said 
he earned £35,000 a year (before tax) and was a tenant. Likely Loans has provided 
information to show that it calculated that to mean around £26,367 a year after tax which 
came to just over £2,197 each month. It had Mr Ws housing costs and living expenses as 
£969 a month and his credit commitments were £50 a month. So it considered that Mr W 
was able to afford the £61.07 each month for the loan. 
Morses had carried out a credit check  the details of which were summarised in the FRL 
sent to Mr Ws representative in May 2022 and I have reviewed those. Those details show 
nothing likely to alert Likely Loans to any concerns surrounding Mr Ws finances. 
Mr W repaid Loan 1 seven months earlier than scheduled. 
For Loan two which was applied for three months after Mr W had repaid loan 1, Mr W had 
told Likely Loans that his gross annual income was £36,500 so a little higher than when hed 
applied for loan 1. 
Likely Loans calculated that to be around £2,316 a month (after tax), his expenses were 
£969 a month and his credit commitments had increased to £253 a month. And so it 
considered that Mr W was able to afford the new second loan at a repayment of £53.25 a month for 12 months. It would not have been alerted to any concerns from the repayment 
history of loan 1, as he had repaid it early, and loan 2 was for a shorter term and a smaller 
amount. 
Likely Loans carried out a credit search and there was nothing in that information it has listed 
in the FRL which leads me to think that Likely Loans ought to have had a concern. 
Mr W does appear to have taken time to repay loan 2. But that information is not relevant 
when I am being asked to consider a complaint surrounding the approval of a loan as I am 
reviewing the lending decision at the date it was approved.
I consider that Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and lent responsibly. 
Reviewing Mr Ws representatives submissions in its complaint letter addressed to Likely 
Loans, then I can see it listed a series of late repayments. None of this information has been 
verified by, for instance, sending to us the records from which it obtained this information it 
had put into the tables in its complaint letter. But even without that information to back up its 
submissions, I can see that nearly all the late repayments commenced in August 2018 so 
after Mr W had applied for loan 2. And so Likely Loans was unlikely to know of those as they 
post-dated Mr Ws second loan application. 
And Mr Ws representative has sent us some information (again unverified) of a default but 
that seemed to relate to a loan that was opened in June 2018 and so for the default to have 
been registered it would have been a long time after that. Which again, would have post-
dated the application for loan 2. 
So, I do not attach much weight to Mr Ws representatives submissions and even if I did the 
information is not persuasive. 
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman