DRN-3773176
The complaint
Mr S complains about his mortgage with Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax. He says it 
has charged him too much interest over the years, which has caused him significant financial 
difficulty.
What happened
Mr S owned a house which was subject to a mortgage with another lender. In 2007, 
following the breakdown of his marriage and his own redundancy, he moved to another city 
for work. At the time, this was intended to be a short-term move.
Around the time of his move, also in 2007, Mr S re-mortgaged his home, taking out a new 
mortgage with Halifax. He took a two year fixed rate.
This was a residential mortgage. But Mr S says he took it out intending that, to start with, he 
would not live in the property because he was working away  though at that time, his 
intention was to return after around two years and he still regarded the property as his 
permanent home at this time. The property was left empty while Mr S was working away and 
he says he only returned to it on occasional weekends.
Things worked out in the new city and Mr S decided to stay. In 2008, he says he decided 
that he would rent out the property. He found a tenant and spoke to Halifax about his 
mortgage.
Mr S says that Halifax told him that because this was a residential mortgage, he would need 
its consent to let the property out. He says that Halifax told him that he couldnt formally 
apply for consent to let while he was on a fixed rate. However, he says that the agent he 
spoke to at Halifax at that time told him to go ahead and let the property, that he would send 
Mr S a consent to let application form, but that Mr S would not need to return it. Mr S says 
the agent told him that Halifax had noted that he was letting the property, and would get in 
touch when it needed him to return the form.
Mr S says that as a result of this conversation, in 2008, he understood that Halifax was 
aware he was letting the property, had agreed that he could do so, and that he didnt need to 
take any further action until Halifax got back in touch to ask him to return the form. Mr S says 
that he understood he had been given verbal consent to let, and that the agent he spoke to 
had had to implement a workaround because system limitations meant Halifax couldnt 
formally record a consent to let while he was still on a fixed rate.
Mr S says that in the years after this, he had problems with his divorce and personal life. As 
a result he didnt focus on his mortgage. He was aware that he had reverted to the standard 
variable rate (SVR) in 2009 and was content to let the mortgage continue while he dealt with 
other things. Also around this time, he began to develop mental health problems which have 
impacted him in the years since.
From around 2013, Mr Ss illness worsened, impacting his ability to work. At the same time, 
the property was between tenants. And so the mortgage fell into arrears. Later, Mr S says 
that although the property was tenanted he used the rent for living expenses because he 
was out of work, rather than for paying the Halifax mortgage.
By around 2016, Mr S says he realised that the interest rate he was paying on his mortgage 
was much higher than he expected it would be and he started to look into things. Mr S found 
that, in addition to the SVR, he was paying a premium of 1.5% for letting his property out 
without authorisation.
And Mr S says that he also found that his mortgage offer said that the SVR would never be 
more than 2% above Bank of England base rate  but that in fact the SVR he was on was 
significantly higher than this cap.
Mr S began complaining to Halifax about his situation. He said hed been significantly 
overcharged interest over the years  both because of the 1.5% unauthorised letting 
premium, and because the SVR was more than 2% above base rate.
Mr S said this was unfair, because he did have consent to let following the conversation in 
2008. And because Halifax had never given him notice that it was changing his interest rate, 
and therefore had no power to change it. It was only later, following a subject access 
request, that Mr S realised that while Halifax had sent him notices, it had sent them to the 
mortgaged property address rather than to his new address  even though it knew that was 
where he was living.
As a result, Mr S said Halifax had never given him valid notice. And so it had no power to 
change his interest rate. As a result his monthly payments were too high  and this had 
made his arrears significantly worse than they should have been. And that had had a big 
impact on him and his health.
Halifax didnt agree that it was charging an unfair rate of interest. It said that it had changed 
the interest rate on Mr Ss mortgage in line with the terms and conditions, and had written to 
him at the time. And it said that it had never agreed to allow Mr S to rent the property out. It 
had written to him several times to say that it thought he was doing so without authorisation, 
which would lead to a 1.5% interest rate premium. But Mr S had never replied and had never 
asked for consent.
Mr S said that wasnt right. He said he had asked, in 2008, and been given verbal consent 
and had been led to believe that would continue until he was told otherwise, or until he was 
asked to send in the application form. He said that Halifax had written to the property 
address despite knowing he wasnt living there and despite using his actual address to write 
to him about other things. So he had never seen the letters, and it wasnt fair for Halifax to 
rely on them as giving valid notice when it had not sent them to the address it knew he was 
living at.
And he said that any letters about the level of the SVR, including whether or not the 2% cap 
applied and whether it had been changed, had also been sent to the wrong address. Halifax 
was required to give him notice of any changes to his interest rate  it hadnt done so, so the
changes were invalid.
Halifax has accepted that it knew of Mr Ss changed address in 2011. It accepted that it 
could have written to him at his new address about letting the property. However, it said that 
if it had done so, it was likely Mr S would then have applied for consent to let. And as the 
interest rates it had available at that time for consent to let mortgages were higher than the 
SVR plus 1.5% Mr S was being charged, it didnt think he had lost out  he was better off 
than he would have been had he applied for consent to let and taken a consent to let rate. Halifax said that it had spoken to Mr S in September 2014, when he asked for a payment 
holiday. Mr S had told Halifax that the property was let out, and it told him that there was no 
consent to let in place. It offered to put Mr S through to the relevant team to apply for 
consent, but he refused.
However, Halifax accepted that while it had told Mr S on this call that no consent to let was 
in place, it didnt tell him on this call that he was being charged an extra 1.5% as a result. It 
re-worked Mr Ss account to remove the 1.5% premium between October 2014 and October 
2016. It did so on the basis that had Mr S known of the 1.5% premium he might have applied 
for consent which would be likely to have been granted, and so the premium would have 
been taken off. At this time, Halifax didnt offer consent to let rates, it just allowed mortgages 
to continue on the SVR  so between 2014 and 2016 Mr S would have been better off had 
he applied for consent to let.
However, consent would need to be reviewed annually and by October 2016 Mr S was in 
arrears  even after the account had been re-worked  and so further consent would have 
been refused and the 1.5% added back on again. So Halifax would not offer a further refund 
after that date.
This adjustment of interest between 2014 and 2016 resulted in a refund of interest of around 
£11,000, which was used to reduce the mortgage balance and arrears. Halifax also agreed 
to amend Mr Ss credit file to reflect the re-worked arrears position.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Halifax then made a further offer to resolve the complaint  
while it didnt accept that it had done anything wrong, it said it was conscious of the length of 
time these issues had been going on and the impact they were having on Mr S in his 
particular circumstances. Halifax said that it had previously paid redress on three occasions:
 
A refund of interest, totalling £2,449.49 in March 2010 
£250 compensation in March 2011
A refund of interest of £11,121.37 in November 2018.
Halifax said that when Mr S complained, he had estimated the total amount he believed he 
had been overcharged as around £30,000. While Halifax didnt accept that, in an effort to 
resolve the complaint it would offer to reduce Mr Ss mortgage balance and arrears by a 
further £16,200, making just over £30,000 including the previous redress. It also said that it 
would grant Mr S consent to let for 12 months, removing the 1.5% interest rate premium for 
that period, even though the mortgage would still be in arrears even after the interest rate 
refund.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. But Mr S didnt. He said that the amount he 
had been overcharged had increased since hed made that estimate. And he wanted Halifax 
to compensate him for everything that had happened, and to adjust his interest rate for the 
future. As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a decision to be made.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Im grateful to Mr S for the detail and clarity with which hes explained his complaint. 
Thats given me a good understanding of what hes concerned about and what he thinks has gone wrong. And Ive also taken note of everything hes said about the 
impact his situation has been having on his mental health. Thats a good reason of 
itself for bringing this long-drawn out complaint to a close  so that Mr S can move 
forward with certainty whatever the outcome.
It seems to me there are two key issues in this case  whether its fair that Mr S has 
been charged the 1.5% unauthorised letting premium; and whether its fair that the 
SVR Halifax has charged him since 2009 has been set at more than 2% above the 
Bank of England base rate. Ill deal with each of those in turn. Mr S has also told me 
about a third issue, concerning a separate mortgage on the property hes now living 
in (not the property which is the subject of this complaint)  but, as I explained to him, 
the lender on that mortgage is not Halifax but another firm in the same group and so 
not something I can consider as part of this complaint.
The consent to let premium
Ive set out above Mr Ss recollection of the conversation he had in 2008, in which he 
says he was told that he had permission to let the property on a verbal basis, and 
was told hed be notified if he ever needed to send in the form to apply in writing.
Ive thought about this carefully. Ive noted the certainty with which Mr S recollects 
this conversation, and Ive taken that into account.
Ive also taken into account that no call recording of this conversation survives  
unsurprisingly given the passage of time. And that theres no note of it in the records 
Halifax have provided us. So I dont have Halifaxs version of what was said. 
However, even so, Im not persuaded by Mr Ss recollection of the call. There are 
several reasons for that.
Firstly, I have to bear in mind the fallibility of human memory. Its well known that 
memory doesnt act as a snapshot, freezing a moment in time. Rather, memories 
change and adapt over time as they are accessed. This happens subconsciously, 
and is influenced by later feelings and the memories of other events. In short, human 
memory is fallible and unreliable as a guide to what was said or done in the past  
particularly the distant past. Its for this reason that the courts have repeatedly 
warned against over-reliance on evidence based on memory of events, particularly 
where thats contradicted by the documents from the time.
As I say, theres no recording or note of this conversation that Ive seen. However, 
Halifaxs policy was that consent to let requires a formal application to be made. I 
dont think its likely that Halifax would have told Mr S that it could disregard its policy 
and give him a verbal agreement to let the property for an indefinite period and then 
not record that in its systems. In this respect, the absence of a documentary record is 
persuasive.
Mr S still has a copy of the consent to let application form he says Halifax sent him 
around this time, and hes given it to us. Its a formal application, requiring the 
borrower to agree to various declarations. And the form also makes clear that the 
maximum duration of consent to let is three years. So even if Mr Ss memory of the 
2008 call is right, receiving the form ought to have led him to question why he wasnt 
being asked to complete the form and to question what would happen from 2011 
onwards.I think it may well be the case that Mr S had a conversation with Halifax in 2008, and 
in that conversation Halifax told him he would need to apply and sent him the form. 
But Im not persuaded that his recollection  that it told him he wouldnt need to 
apply, and had been given verbal consent indefinitely until such time as Halifax 
invited him to re-apply  is accurate, however honestly held and however strongly Mr 
S believes it to be true.
There are records of later calls with Halifax. Mr S told Halifax of his change of 
address. On 15 March 2011, he called Halifax to ask why it hadnt implemented the 
change but was still writing to the property. Halifaxs notes of this conversation say:
Mr [S] called in to ask why his address has not changed, I question the 
customer and he confirmed he is renting the property out without ctl [consent 
to let]. Tried to pass the customer through to ctl team but too busy. Direct 
number provided customer will call back but is aware this will be classed as 
an unauthorised tenancy
This is a contemporaneous note, and while the call recording doesnt survive I have 
no reason to doubt its accuracy. Im satisfied this call took place and that the record 
in the notes reflects what was said. It shows that by 2011  before it started to apply 
the 1.5% premium  Halifax had made clear to Mr S that he didnt have consent and 
would need to apply. So even if Mr Ss recollection of the 2008 is accurate, this call 
would have told him that he no longer had consent to let in place by 2011.
Following this call, Halifax wrote to Mr S at the property address on several 
occasions. When it received no reply, it applied the 1.5% unauthorised letting 
premium from May 2011. 
It may be that Mr S doesnt now recall the March 2011 call, and is relying on his 
memory of the 2008 call to support his belief that he has in fact had consent to let all 
along. But as I say, human memory is fallible, and I place greater reliance on the 
contemporaneous call note. 
Thats not to say I doubt the honesty of what Mr S says  Im sure he genuinely 
remembers the 2008 call and has accurately described to us his memory of it. But 
while I dont doubt the honesty of his memory of it, Im not persuaded that his 
recollection is reliable and should be preferred to the documentary evidence.
On balance, Im not persuaded that Halifax told Mr S in 2008 that he could have 
consent to let without the need for a formal application, and that consent would last 
indefinitely until Halifax got back in touch to ask him to return the form.
And even if Halifax did say that to him in 2008, it made clear in the March 2011 call 
that, as far as it was concerned, he did not have consent to let and would need to 
apply for it. Therefore any verbal agreement from 2008 was no longer in place.
But Mr S didnt make that application, and it was only after this conversation  from 
May 2011  that the 1.5% premium began to be applied. And at this time there was 
no consent to let in place, and Mr S knew that at the time (even if he doesnt recall 
knowing it now).
Mr S has also pointed to Halifaxs policy, which says that in cases of suspected 
unauthorised tenancies, Halifax should write to borrowers at all known addresses. 
Halifax only wrote to the property address  even though it knew he wasnt living 
there, it didnt write to the address hed given where he was actually living.And under the rules of mortgage regulation (known as MCOB, available in the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook online)  specifically MCOB 7.6.1 R  Halifax 
is required to give Mr S reasonable notice in advance of any changes to his monthly 
payments resulting from interest rate changes. In addition to this, the wider principles 
of regulation say that a firm must pay due regard to a customers information needs, 
communicating in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading (Principle 7).
The evidence Ive seen shows that Halifax did only write to the property address. It 
did have his other address, and its policy says it should have written to him there too.
However, I dont think this means that Halifax wasnt entitled to apply the 1.5% 
premium. 
Under condition 6.6 of the terms and conditions, it was allowed to do so where the 
property is let. Condition 2.2 of the terms and conditions says that Halifax can give 
notice by writing to you at the property or the last address you gave us. Halifax did 
write to the property, which is one of the alternatives in condition 2.2. So Halifax 
complied with the requirements of the terms and conditions.
And while its arguable that Halifax didnt comply with MCOB 7.6.1 R or Principle 7, in 
that it didnt write to the address it knew Mr S was living at, it doesnt follow that 
Halifax is not entitled to charge the 1.5% premium. The regulatory rules dont set out 
a specific consequence for a firm if theyre not complied with. So this becomes part of 
the wider circumstances that I need to take into account in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr S had given Halifax a different address, and it should have used that address 
instead  or as well  to notify him of changes. But Mr S was aware  as shown by 
the March call  that this wasnt always happening. Mr S has told us that he wasnt 
receiving annual statements or other documents he would have expected around this 
time either. And it doesnt seem that he took steps such as having his mail diverted.
I think the key point is that by March 2011, Mr S knew that Halifax considered the 
letting to be unauthorised and that he needed to make an application for consent to 
let. But he didnt make that application. He knew he wasnt receiving documents 
because Halifax was writing to the mortgage address but he wasnt living there. I 
appreciate this was a difficult time in Mr Ss life and he was managing many other 
things besides the mortgage. But the fact is that he didnt take the steps Halifax told 
him he needed to take to get consent to let.
Im therefore satisfied that at the point at which it started applying the 1.5% premium, 
from May 2011:
Mr S was renting his property out;
Mr S did not have Halifaxs consent to rent his property out;
Halifax had made clear to him that he needed consent, and that until it was 
granted, his tenancy would be treated as unauthorised;
Mr S knew he needed to apply for consent to let;
Mr S did not in fact apply for consent to let;The terms and conditions allowed Halifax to increase the interest rate by up to 
2% where the property was let.
Im not therefore persuaded that it was unreasonable in those circumstances for 
Halifax to treat Mr Ss tenancy as unauthorised and apply the 1.5% premium.
Even if Im wrong, and the failure to write to Mr Ss new address rather than the 
property address meant that it wasnt fair for Halifax to apply the 1.5% premium, I still 
wouldnt uphold this part of the complaint. Thats because Halifax has shown that, at 
this time, it required borrowers who had been on SVR when they applied for consent 
to let to take out a specific consent to let interest rate. Those interest rates were not 
lower than the SVR + 1.5% Mr S in fact paid.
That means that if Halifax had written to Mr S at his new address, then one of two 
things would have happened. Either  as happened with the March 2011 phone call  
Mr S would have taken no action despite being advised that he needed to apply for 
consent to let. And in that situation, he would still have been charged the 1.5% 
premium. Or Mr S would have applied for consent to let, and been required to take 
out a consent to let interest rate  which was at least as high as SVR + 1.5%.
Therefore, my conclusions on this part of Mr Ss complaint are that:
It was fair for Halifax to apply the 1.5% unauthorised letting premium from 
May 2011,because Mr S knew he needed consent to let, didnt apply for it, but 
continued to let the property, and the mortgage terms and conditions allowed 
a premium of up to 2%;
Alternatively, if it was not fair for Halifax to apply the 1.5% premium because it 
failed to write to Mr Ss new address, this did not cause Mr S any loss, since 
had it done so Mr S would either:
oNot have applied for consent to let, and still have paid the same SVR 
+ 1.5%; or
oHave applied for consent to let, and been required to take a new 
interest rate which was higher than SVR + 1.5%, so paying more than 
he did for the unauthorised letting.
Im therefore not persuaded that Halifax did anything wrong in applying the premium 
 but if it did, doing so did not cause Mr S any loss.
In 2018, Halifax re-worked Mr Ss mortgage to remove the 1.5% premium for the 
period between 2014 and 2016. It did so because following a further discussion 
about consent to let in 2014, it doesnt think it made clear enough that Mr S would 
need to apply for consent to let to avoid the 1.5% premium continuing  had it done 
so, he might have applied.
But it said that by October 2016, when Mr S would have needed to renew consent to 
let, he was in arrears even with the refunded interest and so consent would have 
been refused.
Therefore it didnt agree to refund the 1.5% premium after October 2016. Im satisfied 
it was Halifaxs policy to refuse consent to let when a mortgage was in arrears. I think 
that was a fair offer and I dont require Halifax to take any further action in respect of 
this part of Mr Ss complaint.The level of the SVR
From 2009, Mr Ss mortgage reverted to the SVR.
Mr Ss mortgage offer contains the following wording:
Halifax Standard Variable Rate is the base rate which applies to this mortgage.

We have set a limit on the Halifax Standard Variable Rate so that it will not be 
more than 2% above Bank of England base rate. We can change the 2% limit 
but, before we do, we will give 30 days notice to customers who pay interest 
at Halifax Standard Variable Rate, a discounted rate or an added rate and are 
subject to an early repayment charge. Those customers will then have three 
months to repay their mortgage if they want to, without having to pay the early 
repayment charge. This does not apply to customers who pay interest at a 
fixed, capped, special or tracker rate.
This supplements the general provisions about interest in the terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions say, at section 6:
6.10 We can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any time, 
unless the offer, any extra agreement or any flexible options agreement 
says we cannot. We can change the interest rate for any of the following 
reasons:
.
6.15 We will give you notice, as set out in condition 2.2, of any changes in the 
interest rate under condition 6.10
Condition 2.2 says:
We will give you notice as follows:
(a) We may give you notice by writing to you at the property or the last 
address you give us
(b) We may give you notice of a change in the base rate or the tracker base 
rate by putting the notice in at least three national newspapers.
Words in bold have specific definitions as set out in condition 1. Of particular 
relevance is the definition of base rate  which is the base rate of interest set out in 
the offer  as the offer says, in this case the base rate is the Halifax SVR.
Condition 2.2 contains the general notice provisions in the terms and conditions  so 
apply to all situations where notice is required, unless special provisions override 
them. Ive quoted the relevant section of the offer above, which says 30 days notice 
direct to the customer is required  but only where Halifax changes the cap (rather 
than changing the SVR within the cap), and then only where the customer is currently 
subject to an early repayment charge (ERC).
Taken together, what all that means is:
the base rate of Mr Ss mortgage is the Halifax SVR;
At the start of the mortgage, there was a cap on the SVR of 2% above base 
rate; Condition 6.10 says that Halifax can vary the SVR for one of the reasons 
given;
The offer says that Halifax can also vary the cap;
When Halifax changes the SVR but does not change the cap, it must give 
notice of the change by putting the notice in national newspapers;
When Halifax changes the cap, it is only required to give 30 days notice to 
customers who are subject to ERCs at that time, and then should allow three 
months for those customers to redeem without charging an ERC;
The 30 days notice of change to the cap does not apply to customers who 
are not subject to an ERC at that time. Those customers will instead be 
subject to the ordinary notice provisions in condition 2.2  that is, putting 
notice in the national newspapers.
In addition to those provisions in the terms and conditions, there is the regulatory rule 
Ive quoted above  under MCOB 7.6.1 R, Halifax is required to give Mr S reasonable 
notice in advance of any changes to his monthly payments resulting from interest 
rate changes.
Halifax changed the cap from 2% to 3% in 2008, while Mr S was still on his fixed rate. 
And it later increased the SVR further, so that by 2011 it was more than 3% above 
base rate.
There were no further changes to the SVR until 2016.
In March 2010, Halifax wrote to Mr S  at the property address  saying that it had 
increased the cap from 2% to 3% in 2008. It had not written to him at the time, 
because Mr S was then on a fixed rate not the SVR and so wasnt affected by the 
change. But when he reverted to the SVR in 2009, by then the rate was more than 
2% above base rate.
Halifax said it should have given him 30 days notice of the change because he was 
subject to an ERC at the time it took effect. Halifax accepted it hadnt done so, and 
said this letter was the 30 days notice, and it would refund the extra interest charged 
between when he had reverted to SVR in March 2009 and 30 days from the date of 
the letter (to April 2010) 
This amounted to a refund of around £2,500 plus interest which was applied to 
Mr Ss mortgage.
The SVR changed again in 2011, and again notification was sent to the property 
address  not the address Mr S was living at.
Mr Ss complaint is that Halifax is not entitled to rely on changes to the interest rate 
because it failed to give him proper notice  because it did not write to him at the 
address it knew he was living at. It only wrote to him at the mortgage address. In the 
absence of proper notice, it hasnt complied with the requirements necessary before 
it can change the rate applicable to his mortgage  and therefore any changes to the 
rate are void. In particular, this means that he should never have been charged more 
than the 2% cap set out in his offer.Ive thought carefully about this. And I agree that Halifax should have written to him 
at the correspondence address he had given  certainly from 2011 onwards, as Ive 
set out above, theres evidence that it had the new address and that Mr S was trying 
to sort out why post wasnt being sent there.
But I dont think that means that the changes Halifax made to the rate are of no 
effect. Ive set out above that under the terms of the contract, Halifax can give notice 
of base rate (SVR) changes through the press  its not required to write to Mr S 
directly.
The one exception is where a change is made to the cap while Mr S is subject to an 
ERC. That is not changes to base rate  which only need to be advertised in the 
press. Instead, Mr S must be given notice personally.
But even in that case, condition 2.2 says that Halifax can give notice by writing to 
you at the property or the last address you gave us. These are alternatives, and 
Halifax did write to Mr S at the property in 2010 (accepting it should have given him 
notice in 2008, and reversing the rate increase in the meantime). So I dont think it 
can be argued that Halifax acted in breach of contract by writing to him at the 
property  meaning that I cant say it didnt have the contractual power to change the 
cap due to failure to give proper notice.
The regulator doesnt require lenders to give borrowers notice of changes to their 
interest rate. But it does require notice to be given of changes to monthly payments 
arising out of changes to the interest rate  which, where a customer is on SVR (as is 
the case here) amounts to the same thing.
The rule doesnt specify how notice is to be given, it just says that a firm must give a 
customer reasonable notice in advance. This is MCOB 7.6.1 R  the same rule Ive 
referred to above.
In addition to this, the wider principles of regulation say that a firm must pay due 
regard to a customers information needs, communicating in a way thats clear, fair 
and not misleading (Principle 7).
I think theres an argument that, in this case, Halifax didnt do that. It knew where 
Mr S was living  it had his address  from at least 2011 onwards but it continued to 
send information to the property even though it knew he wasnt living there. Im not 
persuaded that this paid due regard to his information needs, or amounted to fair 
communication or reasonable notice.
However, the regulators rules and standards are matters for me to take into account 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances (alongside relevant 
law, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time).
The regulations dont set out the consequences if a firm fails to comply  they dont 
say, for example, that if a firm doesnt give reasonable notice of a payment change 
then it cant change the payment.
Its therefore a matter for me to decide whether I think its fair and reasonable for 
Halifax to have changed the monthly payments on Mr Ss mortgage even though it 
arguably didnt give him reasonable notice, because it didnt write to the right address 
when it increased the SVR in 2011. The same may be true of the 2010 letter  
though its not clear exactly when Mr S gave Halifax his new address as a correspondence address for the mortgage, by March 2011 (in the call Ive cited 
above), he was complaining that address wasnt being used. 
At this time, Mr S was up to date with his mortgage and was paying it each month. 
Hed therefore have been able to see that the amount being taken by Halifax had 
changed. Mr S was not living in the property. He knew that there were issues with 
correspondence being sent there and was trying to resolve this with Halifax  but 
doesnt seem to have taken other steps such as diverting his mail to make sure he 
got important letters. He says he was receiving annual statements around this time, 
though there was a gap later when they stopped.
Halifax did comply with the terms and conditions of the mortgage  it sent Mr S the 
belated notice of change to the cap in 2010 to the property address, and advertised 
later changes to the SVR in accordance with the offer and condition 2.2. And while 
that may not amount to enough to comply with its additional regulatory obligations, it 
doesnt follow that Halifax cant charge the increased rate. And I bear in mind that Im 
not persuaded that this caused Mr S significant detriment at the time. He was up to 
date with his payments and continued to be so  it was only some years later that he 
began to go into arrears. The arrears were not caused by the changes in interest 
rate, but by later changes in Mr Ss circumstances. Im not therefore persuaded that it 
would be fair and reasonable to say that Halifax is required to refund ten or more 
years of interest because it wrote to the wrong address in 2010 and 2011. And so I 
dont think I can fairly uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint either.
Putting things right
Ive set out my view of this complaint. I dont think that, ultimately, Mr S has been 
treated unfairly in the interest rate hes been charged  either because of the 
unauthorised letting premium, or in the notice given of changes to the SVR.
However, I note that Mr S feels very strongly about this complaint. Hes pursued it 
determinedly for several years  despite the impact on his mental health. I 
understand thats because he feels hes been the victim of an injustice, and his 
treatment at the hands of Halifax has compounded his already difficult situation.
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think that Halifax has charged Mr S 
interest unfairly. But I also note that  while it doesnt accept it has done anything 
wrong  Halifax has taken the view that it and Mr S will need to have an ongoing 
relationship for the rest of the mortgage term. That relationship has substantially 
broken down and needs to be repaired.
In that context, and without admission of liability, Halifax has offered to reduce Mr Ss 
balance and arrears by a further £16,200  being the difference between what it has 
already paid and the total amount that Mr S estimated he had lost out on when he 
first complained. And it would grant him 12 months consent to let, giving him time to 
make decisions about what to do.
In all the circumstances, I think thats a fair offer, and I hope it will go some way to 
allowing Mr S to move on and resume a working relationship with Halifax, coming to 
an agreement about how to resolve the remaining arrears on his mortgage, whether 
or not the property is to be let, and the long term future.
The responses to my provisional decision
Halifax accepted my provisional decision. But Mr S didnt. Mr S said that my provisional decision was biased and prejudiced against him. He said I had 
mis-stated his complaint, which in fact was: 
Halifax didnt inform him of a material change in his mortgage interest rate before it 
came into force in July 2011 (the consent to let premium). It sent letters to the 
property address despite knowing he wasnt living there.
 
Halifax didnt inform him of a material change in his mortgage interest rate before it 
came into force in 2009 and 2010 (the increase in the SVR). It did not provide the 
required 30 days notice in advance.
Halifax should not include payment shortfall balances in a customers contractual 
monthly payments. Halifax had breached this requirement each time it recalculated 
Mr Ss monthly payment following a change in the SVR. I should require it to follow 
the regulators guidance on remediation in this situation.1
Mr S said that Halifax changed his address on its systems in 2007 and again in 2008  for 
example, that is where it sent his credit card statements, his savings accounts statements 
and correspondence about an insurance policy  but it sent information about the mortgage 
to the property address. Halifaxs policy is to use the same address for all customer 
accounts, but it failed to do that and as a result Mr S didnt receive any correspondence 
about his mortgage or the interest rate until he made enquiries after 2017. Mr S also referred 
to a letter from a complaint handler in 2019 who said I feel the evidence youve provided is 
sufficient to show you made Halifax aware of your address.
Mr S said that this shows that Halifax failed to maintain its systems properly to ensure it used 
his correct address across all products he held with it, and therefore that Halifax was in 
breach of the regulators principles for firms.
Mr S said that I had questioned whether or not he notified the bank  and in doing so, I had 
ignored the evidence he provided and Halifaxs acknowledgement, quoted above, that he 
had done so.
Mr S said that the then Financial Services Authority had issued a final notice to Halifax in 
October 20122, in which it had found that Halifax had relied on incorrect customer 
information to communicate changes in their mortgages, which meant that around 15% of 
customers did not receive important information they should have received, including about 
changes to interest rates.  This is further evidence that it failed in his case.
Mr S said that Halifax wrongly wrote only to the property address. It failed to give him notice. 
As he is entitled to 30 days notice before any change in the SVR cap, the increase is not 
valid until 30 days after he was actually given notice. 
Mr S said the outcome in my provisional decision was inconsistent with the regulators 
findings and interpretation of the terms and conditions of the mortgage. I have disregarded 
those matters and therefore my provisional decision is irrational and biased in favour of 
Halifax.
Mr S said that I had taken a partisan view of the events around the unauthorised letting 
loading. I had speculated about what had happened and taken my speculation as evidence, 
which is shocking and casts a shadow over my findings. Mr S said that his version of events 
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/fg17-04.pdf 
2 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/final-notices/bank-of-scotland.pdf had not been challenged by Halifax and should be accepted by me. Halifax told Mr S that he 
should wait to be contacted before submitting a consent to let form; Halifax did not contact 
him - it wrote to the wrong address repeatedly  and was therefore in breach of the 
mortgage terms and conditions and the regulators rules. It was not entitled to apply the 
unauthorised letting premium.
Mr S said I had also taken the wrong approach in considering what would have happened 
had he been given the correct notice. To do so assumes there is no law protecting 
consumers, which is absurd and prejudiced. The regulators approach is that compliance 
with its requirements is mandatory.
Mr S said that if he had been told that he needed consent to let, he would have switched his 
mortgage to a buy to let mortgage as he had already decided that he would not be returning 
to live at that address. He would have been better off with a buy to let than on consent to let, 
and therefore Halifaxs failure to prompt him to do so has caused loss.
Halifaxs failures led to Mr S being overcharged interest for many years  and hastened the 
time at which he ran out of savings, and therefore increased the impact of his inability to 
work following a worsening of his illness from 2016. 
Mr S said that I had not reached a fair and reasonable outcome or taken full account of 
relevant law and the regulators principles, requirements and guidance. And I hadnt given 
sufficient weight to Halifaxs failings and their consequences. I had failed to take into account 
that a direct consequence of not being given sufficient notice was that Mr S was unable to 
make informed decisions about his mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Mr Ss complaint that Halifax has included shortfall balances when 
re-calculating his contractual monthly payment. The regulator issued guidance to firms on 
this in 2017. It had found that some firms had been including payment shortfalls  missed 
payments, or arrears  when re-calculating monthly payments, including following changes 
in interest rates.
The guidance said that firms should look at their mortgages, and where this issue  known 
as automatic capitalisation of arrears  had happened, firms should put things right in line 
with the guidance.
However, I dont think this has happened in this case. This is primarily an issue with 
repayment mortgages, and Mr S has an interest only mortgage.
Ive looked carefully at what has happened. The only time the interest rate changed (and the 
monthly payment was re-calculated) before the guidance was issued and at a time when Mr 
S was in arrears was in October 2016. 
In August 2016, the Bank of England reduced base rate by 0.25%, and shortly afterward 
Halifax reduced its SVR by the same amount, from 5.49% to 5.24%. Halifax then re-
calculated Mr Ss monthly payment. With effect from October 2016, the monthly payment 
increased from £1,360.72 to £1,510.45.
I can see why, on the face of it, Mr S might find this odd. One would generally expect that 
when interest rates go down, the monthly payment goes down too  and that didnt happen here.
However, the reason for that is because by this point Mr S was in around £18,000 worth of 
arrears. That means he had missed over a years worth of monthly payments. 
With an interest only mortgage like this one, Halifax charges interest daily and adds it to the 
balance each month. Mr S is then asked to pay the monthly payment, which is the same 
amount as the interest charged. And so if he makes the payment, the balance stays the 
same  and therefore the same amount of interest is chargeable the next month.
But where Mr S doesnt make a payment, the interest for the month is added to the balance 
but not then taken off again with the payment. This means the balance goes up. And next 
month, because the balance is higher, so is the amount of interest charged. At the same 
time, the missed payment is recorded as arrears, since Mr S has an ongoing obligation to 
make those payments even if they are late. The increased balance is not the same as the 
arrears, and even if Mr S later clears the arrears in full the balance would still be higher 
because of the extra interest charged in the meantime.
This means that over the year and more Mr S hadnt been making payments, his balance 
had increased because of the unpaid interest and because of extra interest charged on the 
higher balance. When the interest rate changed, Halifax re-calculated Mr Ss monthly 
payments  again, so that the amount he was charged each month matched the amount of 
interest he was charged each month.
But as the balance was now higher, that meant that even though the interest rate was lower, 
the amount of interest charged each month went up slightly  and so did Mr Ss monthly 
payments.
This is not the same as automatic capitalisation of arrears. Mr Ss arrears werent capitalised 
and remained outstanding. But because of the arrears, the mortgage balance had also gone 
up and the effect of a higher balance outweighed the reduction in interest rate. In addition to 
this, the arrears remained outstanding and Halifax still required Mr S to repay the arrears. 
The monthly payment was not increased to recover the arrears  which is what capitalisation 
means. It was increased to reflect the fact that more interest was being charged now the 
balance was higher.
Im therefore satisfied that Halifax has not, in this case, acted in contravention of the 
regulators rules on automatic capitalisation of arrears. This means that it is not required to 
remediate Mr Ss mortgage in line with the 2017 guidance  and has not acted unfairly in not 
doing so.
Ill turn now to the matters I dealt with in my provisional decision  the unauthorised letting 
premium, and the increase to the SVR following the change to the cap.
The unauthorised letting premium
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly here. On further 
reflection, and having taken into account what Mr S has said, I remain of that view.
I said in my provisional decision that I wasnt persuaded by Mr Ss recollection that Halifax 
had verbally given him consent to let and told him not to submit an application until he was 
asked to do so. I dont agree that this conclusion was partisan, or speculative. And I dont 
think that Halifax accepts Mr Ss version of events. In any situation where the facts are 
unclear, or in dispute, or where the evidence is incomplete, it is my role to analyse the 
evidence, weigh it up and decide, on the balance of probabilities, what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
In this case, Mr S says that he was given verbal consent to let in 2008. He has a clear 
recollection of that conversation and believes he has acted in reliance on it ever since.
However, Halifax does not accept that this happened. It has no record of such a 
conversation with Mr S. It does not agree that he was ever given consent to let.
Therefore, there is a clear dispute of fact. And I need to resolve that dispute. If Mr S is right, 
then he was given consent to let in 2008. If Halifax is right, he wasnt. It is not partisan, or 
speculative, for me to decide which of those options I think is more likely  it is the essence 
of my obligations as an ombudsman.
Ive noted the strength of Mr Ss feeling about this, and the clarity of his recollection. I dont 
doubt that he now honestly believes such a conversation took place, and that he was given 
verbal consent to let.
However, I still dont think that its likely that hes right about this. I explained in my 
provisional decision the problems with relying on uncorroborated memory, especially after 
such a long passage of time. Human memory is fallible, and does not act like a fixed 
snapshot  it is liable to become distorted and changed over time, and recollection is often 
influenced by later beliefs and emotions, so that later mistaken beliefs about what happened 
override the original events. This is not a conscious process and does not imply any 
dishonesty on Mr Ss part. Its just how memory works.
That means that I attach limited weight to Mr Ss recollection of a conversation from almost 
fifteen years ago. And I also have to set against his recollection the fact it was not Halifaxs 
policy at the time to grant consent to let in this way; that there is no record in Halifaxs 
systems of such a conversation having taken place; and that the form Mr S was given, he 
says at the time, says that an application is required and that consent to let would be granted 
for a maximum of three years.
On balance, I still think its more likely than not that either this conversation did not happen, 
or that it did and that Halifax told Mr S he would need to make an application and send in a 
form. I dont think its likely that Halifax gave him verbal consent to let or told him that there 
was no need for him to apply formally until it invited him to do so.
In any case, I dont think it makes any difference to the overall outcome even if Mr Ss 
memory of this 2008 conversation is accurate. Thats because it was only in May 2011 that 
Halifax began charging the unauthorised letting premium. In March 2011 Mr S called Halifax, 
and Halifax told him that there was no consent to let in place and that he would need to 
speak to the relevant team to make an application.
This means that even if Mr S had been given verbal consent to let in 2008, he knew by 
March 2011 that this was no longer in place and that he would need to apply again. He did 
not do so, and it was only after this that Halifax began charging the unauthorised letting 
premium.
Overall, therefore, I am not persuaded that Halifax gave Mr S consent to let in 2008. But 
even if it did, it told him in 2011 that there was now no consent in place and he would need 
to make an application  which he did not do. So regardless of what happened in 2008, Mr S 
knew in 2011  before Halifax added the premium  that he was letting the property, needed 
consent to do so, did not have consent and had not made the application Halifax told him he 
would need to make.Halifax added the unauthorised letting premium from May 2011, when Mr S didnt make the 
application it told him he would need to make in the call in March of that year, and when he 
didnt reply to letters sent to the property.
Mr S says that Halifax knew where he was living, and should have written to him there. And 
he says its failure to do so means that the unauthorised letting premium is invalid and should 
be removed. He says that by failing to do so its in breach of its regulatory obligations, 
including to maintain adequate systems and to communicate with its customers. 
Ive said in my provisional decision that under condition 6.6 of the mortgage terms and 
conditions:
We may charge you an added rate if we say so in the offer, any extra agreement or 
any flexible options agreement. We may also charge you an added rate of not more 
than 2% a year because
(a) You have let the property
I dont think this is unfair or unreasonable in principle. This is a residential mortgage, lent on 
the basis that the borrower lives in the property for the duration of the mortgage term. Where 
a borrower does not live in the property, that presents additional risks to the lender which it 
didnt factor in when agreeing to lend and setting the price for lending. For example, a vacant 
property can fall into disrepair and is more likely to be broken into; a let property may be less 
well maintained than an owner occupied property; where the borrower depends on the rent 
to pay the mortgage, the lender is dependent on the actions of a third party (the tenant) to 
ensure the mortgage is maintained. 
For all these reasons  and no doubt there are others  its reasonable for Halifax to 
conclude that there is greater risk associated with let property rather than owner occupied 
property and increase the interest rate to reflect that increased risk. I dont think a 
comparison with buy to let mortgage rates adds much here either  there are different risks 
associated with a residential borrower who has been forced by circumstances (or has 
chosen) to let their property as compared to a landlord who always intended to let their 
property and borrowed on that basis.
Condition 6.6 continues with a series of other reasons why an added rate can be applied. 
This condition concludes with:
We may cancel or reduce an added rate at any time by giving you notice as set out in 
condition 2.2
There is therefore no obligation in the terms and conditions to give notice at all when an 
added rate is applied  only when cancelling or reducing it. The obligation to give notice of 
increases as well as reductions only applies to changes to interest made under conditions 
6.10 and 6.13, not condition 6.6.
And, as I said in my provisional decision, even if the contractual notice requirements did 
cover applying an added rate  which they dont  condition 2.2 says that where notice is 
required it must be given in writing, and can be given by writing to Mr S at the property or 
the last address you gave us. Halifax did write to Mr S at the property.  
So even if, by writing to the property address rather than where Mr S was living, Halifax 
failed to give him notice that it was adding the unauthorised letting premium, it was not 
acting in breach of contract since there was no obligation to give notice at all.However, as I said in my provisional decision, Halifax has obligations that go beyond the 
terms and conditions. I referred to MCOB 7.6.1 R and Principle 7, and Mr S has also referred 
to Principle 3. 
I dont think Principle 3 adds anything to this case, since its concerned with a firms overall 
management systems and controls and risk management  not with obligations to individual 
customers. But under Principle 7, Halifax is required to have regard to Mr Ss information 
needs and communicate with him in a way that is clear fair and not misleading, and under 
MCOB 7.6.1 R it is required to give him reasonable notice in advance of any changes to his 
payments resulting from interest rate changes.
I do think its arguable Halifax didnt do all it should have done here. While this was a 
residential mortgage  and therefore it was entitled to expect that Mr S was living at the 
property, as he was contractually obliged to do  the fact is that Halifax did know from other 
products he had with it that he was actually living elsewhere. But it only wrote to him at the 
property address, not the address that it knew  from other contacts  that he was actually 
living at.
However, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think it follows that any failure to 
comply with Principle 7 and / or MCOB 7.6.1 R means that the addition of the unauthorised 
letting premium is null and void. The regulations dont say that any failure to comply with 
them renders an interest rate change null and void, or prescribe any other action a firm must 
or must not take if in breach. So these regulatory requirements are factors for me to take into 
account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  but they dont 
mean I must find that Halifax couldnt add the premium.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, there are a number of 
factors I must weigh up. On the one hand, Halifax didnt write to the address it knew in other 
contexts he was living at  and the regulator says that Mr S should be given notice in 
advance of any change in payments resulting from a change in interest rate. But on the other 
hand, Halifax did write to the property address, which the terms and conditions say it can; it 
was entitled to apply the premium under the terms and conditions and doing so reflects 
pricing for increased risk to the lender; it told Mr S in March 2011 that he did not have 
consent in place and would need to apply, but Mr S did not apply; and the change did not at 
that time cause Mr S financial difficulties such that it meant he was no longer able to pay the 
mortgage (the arrears did not start until some years later).
It's also relevant to note that, at this time, Halifax had specific interest rates for mortgages 
with consent to let, all of which were higher than the SVR plus premium Mr S ended up 
paying. Had he gone through with an application for consent to let in 2011, therefore, he 
would have needed to take one of those interest rates and would have ended up paying 
more than he in fact did. Even with the premium added, this means Mr S was better off than 
he would have been had he actually had consent to let. And if I were to require Halifax to 
remove the premium, Mr S would effectively be treated as if he had consent to let in place 
without having to pay the higher interest rate Halifax reasonably expected consent to let 
customers to pay. This would leave him better off that he should have been.
I dont agree with Mr S that this is not a relevant consideration, or that it is not reasonable for 
me to take this into account. Where theres a failure on the part of a firm, the right approach 
to resolving matters is to put the borrower back in the position they would be in had the 
failing not happened. Applying that to this case, if Halifax ought fairly to have written to Mr S 
at the address he was living at and if it had done so, one of two things would have 
happened:
Mr S would have applied for consent to let  which would mean taking a consent to let interest rate, which was higher than the SVR plus premium he ended up paying; 
or
Mr S would not have applied for consent to let, or would have applied and been 
refused  which would mean that, as the property would still have been let out, 
Halifax would have added the premium to the SVR.
In the first scenario, Mr S would have ended up paying more than he in fact did; in the 
second, he would have paid the same. Ive concluded above that the failure to give notice 
does not render the addition of the premium null and void, either contractually or in 
regulatory terms. I therefore need to decide what would have happened had Halifax given 
him notice at the address he was living at, and whether the failure to do so caused Mr S 
financial loss. And given the above, Im satisfied that even if Halifax ought fairly to have 
written to him at the address he was living at, doing so didnt cause Mr S financial loss in 
either of those two scenarios. 
Mr S says theres a third scenario - that if Halifax had prompted him, he could and would 
have applied for a buy to let mortgage instead, and that a buy to let mortgage would have 
been cheaper than either the consent to let rates or the SVR plus premium  so its failings 
did cause him financial loss. But Im not persuaded by that. 
Thats because of the phone call in March 2011, in which Halifax did make clear that Mr S 
needed to apply for consent to let. Even if it didnt make him aware that there would be a 
premium on the SVR if he didnt apply, I think it was clear at this point that Mr Ss plans were 
to let the property out long term, that Halifax had told him that was not what his mortgage 
was designed for, and that he would need its consent to continue letting. 
Ultimately its a matter for Mr S to manage his own financial affairs, and I think he had 
enough information at this point to know that a buy to let mortgage might be more 
appropriate for him. If he chose not to apply for one  or didnt think about it at the time  I 
dont think I can fairly hold Halifax responsible for that. Its also the case that Mr S may not 
have been successful in obtaining a buy to let mortgage even if he had applied for one  or 
what interest rate he might have been charged if any application had been successful. 
And so for all those reasons Im not persuaded that Halifax is responsible for Mr S continuing 
with this mortgage rather than a buy to let. I cant therefore fairly say that Halifax caused 
Mr S financial loss because of this.
Taking all of that into account, while I do think that Halifax could have done more to ensure 
Mr S knew that it would apply the unauthorised letting premium to the SVR, Im not 
persuaded that not sending the letters to the address he was living at makes it unfair in the 
circumstances of this particular case for it to have applied the premium. And even if Im 
wrong about that and that did make it unfair, Im not persuaded it resulted in any financial 
loss for which Halifax is required to compensate Mr S. 
Later, in 2018, Halifax re-worked Mr Ss mortgage to remove the 1.5% premium for the 
period between 2014 and 2016. It did so because following a further discussion about 
consent to let in 2014, it doesnt think it made clear enough at that time that Mr S would need 
to apply for consent to let to avoid the 1.5% premium continuing  had it done so, he might 
have applied.
But it said that by October 2016, when Mr S would have needed to renew consent to let, he 
was in arrears even with the refunded interest and so consent would have been refused.Therefore it didnt agree to refund the 1.5% premium after October 2016. Im satisfied it was 
Halifaxs policy to refuse consent to let when a mortgage was in arrears. I think that was a 
fair offer and I dont require Halifax to take any further action in respect of this part of Mr Ss 
complaint.
The level of the SVR
Ive quoted the relevant sections of Mr Ss mortgage offer and the terms and conditions in 
my provisional decision, reproduced above.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr S made essentially the same arguments in 
respect of the changes to the SVR cap that he made in respect of the unauthorised letting 
premium  that Halifax was required to give him notice; it failed to give him notice; therefore 
the increases are of no effect; and the only reasonable and rational outcome is for me to 
direct Halifax to re-work the mortgage to remove the increases in SVR to the extent they 
exceed the 2% cap.
Ive re-considered this aspect of Mr Ss complaint very carefully in light of what hes said. But 
again, I havent changed my mind. 
The relevant part of the terms and conditions which allow for changes to the SVR is to be 
found in condition 6:
6.10 We can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any time, 
unless the offer, any extra agreement or any flexible options agreement 
says we cannot. We can change the interest rate for any of the following 
reasons:
.
6.15 We will give you notice, as set out in condition 2.2, of any changes in the 
interest rate under condition 6.10
Condition 6.10 and condition 6.15 are related terms. Condition 6.10 says that Halifax can 
change the interest rate at any time (provided it is for one of the reasons set out). And 
condition 6.15 says that Halifax will give Mr S notice of any change made under condition 
6.10. But those are two separate clauses  Halifax has the power to change the rate (6.10) 
and, separately, if it does so, Halifax is obliged to give notice of the change (6.15). The 
power to change the rate is not subject to the obligation to give notice; the obligation to give 
notice arises once the decision to make the change is made.
Therefore, if Halifax decides to change the rate, and then fails to give notice, it will be in 
breach of the contractual requirement to give notice of a change. But I dont think its likely a 
court would find that such a breach of contract invalidates the earlier decision to change the 
rate, or renders it automatically null and void. Rather, it would look to the effect of the 
breach. And in my view this is relevant law for me to take into account.
Theres separate wording about changes to the SVR cap, which is to be found in the 
mortgage offer:
We have set a limit on the Halifax Standard Variable Rate so that it will not be more 
than 2% above Bank of England base rate. We can change the 2% limit but, before 
we do, we will give 30 days notice to customers who pay interest at Halifax Standard 
Variable Rate, a discounted rate or an added rate and are subject to an early 
repayment charge. Those customers will then have three months to repay their 
mortgage if they want to, without having to pay the early repayment charge. This does not apply to customers who pay interest at a fixed, capped, special or tracker 
rate.
This wording does say that the giving of notice is a pre-condition for a change in the cap  
before we do, we will give 30 days notice. But only in limited circumstances  we will give 
30 days notice to customers who pay interest at Halifax Standard Variable Rate and are 
subject to an early repayment charge. This does not apply to Mr S  because in 2008, he 
was not paying interest at the standard variable rate. And in 2011 he was paying the SVR, 
but was not subject to an early repayment charge. 
However, following an agreement with the regulator, Halifax accepted that it should fairly 
have given notice to all customers who had the cap included in their mortgage offer since 
customers could have been confused about whether or not the cap applied in their specific 
circumstances. And in 2010 it wrote to Mr S  at the property address  giving him notice, 
accepting it hadnt given him notice of the 2008 change at the time and refunding around 
£2,500 to his mortgage (so that it was as if the 2008 increase hadnt happened up to the 
point it gave notice in 2010). 
There was a further change in 2011, and this time Halifax did write to Mr S to give him notice 
of the planned change  but did so by writing to the property address. 
Mr S says this means that in both cases he didnt receive the notice, the notice isnt valid, 
and therefore neither changes to the SVR and cap that resulted are valid. 
Mr S has pointed to regulatory findings against Halifax, which he says support his view that 
Halifax didnt maintain proper systems and as a result didnt give him the proper notice. And 
Ive considered these, but I dont think they take the matter much further  since its not in 
dispute that Halifax wrote to the property address rather than the address it knew, from other 
contexts, that Mr S was actually living at. 
So the question I have to consider is whether, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
giving notice by writing to the property address rather than the address Mr S was living at 
amounted to a failure to give Mr S proper notice, and whether  if so  this invalidates the 
changes to the SVR and cap or means that Halifax couldnt fairly rely on them in the interest 
rate it charged Mr S.
Ive already quoted condition 2.2 of the terms and conditions, which says that Halifax can 
give notice, where notice is required, by writing to the property address or the last address it 
has for Mr S. And it did write to the property address. So I dont think I can fairly say that 
Halifax failed to give notice in the terms strictly required by the contract and I dont think its 
more likely than not that a court would find that Halifax was in breach of contract by writing to 
the property address. Thats relevant law for me to take into account.
As with the unauthorised letting premium, while I take relevant law into account, what I have 
to decide is whether in all the circumstances its fair that Halifax increased Mr Ss SVR and 
cap even though it didnt write to him at the address where he was living. And for much the 
same reasons as Ive given in respect of the unauthorised letting premium, and that I gave in 
my provisional decision, I dont think it was unfair. 
Under MCOB 7.6.1 R Halifax should have given him notice, though the rule does not specify 
how notice should be given other than that it should be in advance of the change. Halifax did 
write to the property address  which the terms and conditions says is one way it can give 
notice. And while that might not have been enough to satisfy Mr Ss communication needs 
(taking into account Principle 7), it doesnt follow  as I said above  that if there was a breach of these requirements it automatically invalidates the increases to the cap and SVR. 
Rather, these requirements are one of the factors I need to take into account in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr S would have seen that his payments were increasing. He knew by 2011 that there were 
problems with him receiving information about the mortgage and was taking steps to resolve 
that with Halifax. Though he has said he was receiving annual statements at the time  
which would also have set out any changes to the interest rate. 
I also need to bear in mind that the purpose of the notice requirements is so that Mr S can 
exit the mortgage without early repayment charge  but he wasnt subject to one anyway at 
this time. And in my view the other purpose is to allow him to plan for the need to make 
increased payments. So I need to consider whether he was caused any detriment by Halifax 
not writing to him at the address it knew he was living at.  
At this time Mr S was not living in the property, but was letting it out. He was not in arrears or 
financial difficulty  that came some years later. He would have seen the increases through 
changes to his monthly payments and through the annual statements he said he was 
receiving at this time. If he wasnt happy with the increases to the SVR he could have asked 
Halifax for a new fixed rate (though that would likely have been refused while he was letting 
the property out) or he could have moved his mortgage elsewhere  for example, by taking a 
buy to let mortgage. But theres no evidence he made any attempts to mitigate the impact of 
the increased payments, or that they caused him financial difficulty at the time of the 
changes.
Taking everything Ive said into account Im satisfied that Halifax has not acted unfairly in the 
circumstances of this particular case. It didnt give Mr S any notice in 2008, but it dealt with 
that through the redress payment in 2010. This put Mr S back in the position he would have 
been in had the change not happened until 2010 rather than in 2008. 
While Halifax could have done more to contact Mr S at the right address at the time of the 
changes in 2010 (the redress payment for 2008) and in 2011, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable, bearing in mind the factors Ive set out above, to say that the increases to 
the SVR and cap were applied to Mr Ss mortgage unfairly in the particular circumstances of 
this case. 
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think that, ultimately, Mr S has been treated 
unfairly in the interest rate hes been charged  either because of the unauthorised letting 
premium, or in the notice given of changes to the SVR. Ive not seen anything in the further 
arguments Mr S has made which would lead me to change my mind about that. 
However, I note that Mr S feels very strongly about this complaint. Hes pursued it 
determinedly for several years  despite the impact on his mental health. I understand thats 
because he feels hes been the victim of an injustice, and his treatment at the hands of 
Halifax has compounded his already difficult situation.
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think that Halifax has charged Mr S interest 
unfairly. But I also note that  while it doesnt accept it has done anything wrong  Halifax 
has taken the view that it and Mr S will need to have an ongoing relationship for the rest of 
the mortgage term. That relationship has substantially broken down and needs to be 
repaired.In that context, and without admission of liability, Halifax has offered to reduce Mr Ss 
balance and arrears by a further £16,200  being the difference between what it has already 
paid in the past and the total amount that Mr S estimated he had lost out on when he first 
complained. And it would grant him 12 months consent to let, giving him time to make 
decisions about what to do.
Mr S says that its not fair that the refund offered only runs to when he complained, not up to 
todays date or beyond. But given my findings above, I think the offer Halifax has made goes 
further than I would have asked it to go had it not made an offer. And I dont therefore think I 
can fairly ask it to go even further.
In all the circumstances, I think Halifax has made a fair and reasonable offer to draw a line 
under Mr Ss complaints, and I hope it will go some way to allowing Mr S to move on and 
resume a working relationship with Halifax, coming to an agreement about how to resolve 
the remaining arrears on his mortgage, whether or not the property is to continue to be let, 
and the long term future.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
has made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve this complaint, and I direct it to give effect to 
that offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman