DRN-4336819
The complaint
Mr Y complains that BISL Limited (BISL) unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Y says he took out car insurance through BISL at a cost of £1,120. He says he had other 
similar quotes but chose this policy as he thought it was with a good company. On 25 May 
2023 he received an email telling him his policy was being cancelled due to a system error. 
Mr Y says he was given 16 days to find alternative cover. He received a refund of his 
premium and £250 compensation. He says that when he tried to reinsure his vehicle he was 
quoted much higher premiums. Mr Y says that this is due to the short period he had to 
reinsure. He says its well known that insurance quotes for renewal must be sought four to 
five weeks in advance. 
Mr Y says had he renewed with a different insurer he would have paid a similar amount to 
that offered by BISL, not the much higher premium he now has to pay. 
In its final complaint response BISL says it identified an error with the premium Mr Y was 
offered on 24 May 2023. It apologised for the inconvenience but says it wasnt able to 
continue his policy. BISL says a full refund and £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
represents a fair outcome. It confirms 16 days were allowed for Mr Y to find alternative 
cover. 
Mr Y didnt think hed been treated fairly and so he referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says BISL is entitled to cancel Mr Ys policy in 
line with its policy terms. He says BISL allowed more time than was required for Mr Y to 
seek replacement cover. And he thought the compensation offered was fair for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr Y disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill
explain why I think my decision is fair.
In its submission to our service BISL says Mr Y purchased his policy online on 25 April 2023,
with cover effective from 4 May 2023. It says that it subsequently became aware of a pricing
scheme error. This affected a number of newly purchased policies and renewals. It says this
meant it offered policies, including Mr Ys policy, that were incorrectly rated resulting in
significantly reduced premiums.
BISL says it can withdraw cover at any point provided that it gives prior notification of
cancelation in line with its policy terms and conditions. It says Mr Y wasnt entitled to a policy
at the significantly lower premium, which was offered in error.
I can see that BISL sent Mr Y a notice of cancellation letter on 25 May 2023. The policy was 
subsequently cancelled as of 9 June.
Section 11 of Mr Ys policy terms and conditions relate to cancellation. The terms say:
We may cancel your policy if there are serious grounds to do so such as non-payment,
failure to supply requested validation documentation (proof of No Claims Discount, Security
etc) you have provided us with incorrect information and you have failed to provide a remedy
when requested or you behave in a threatening, abusive or inappropriate manner towards
our staff, our representatives or providers. Where we cancel we will provide seven days'
prior written notice to your last known address unless we are required to cancel earlier.
Ive thought about whether the policy terms allow BISL to cancel Mr Ys policy for the 
reasons stated. Incorrect pricing isnt specifically included in the examples provided. But I 
dont reasonably think this list is intended to be exhaustive. The terms say, such as before 
going on to list a number of examples of when BISL can cancel a policy. 
Its not in dispute that it was BISL that made an error when it confirmed Mr Ys insurance 
premium. However, the policy being offered at the wrong price is, I think, a reasonable cause 
for cancellation. I cant see that Mr Y has been caused detriment as a result of this. He 
explains that he wasnt able to accept a similarly priced quote at the time he took out his 
policy with BISL. I havent seen evidence to show that a similarly priced quote was offered. 
But this doesnt alter the fact that BISL was able to cancel the policy, in line with its policy 
terms, as a result of the system error it highlighted.  
Mr Ys policy terms provide for seven days notice in the event of a cancellation. In this case 
BISL provided 16 days. It refunded Mr Ys premium in full, so he didnt pay for the period of 
cover provided by BISL. And he wasnt charged a cancellation fee. I think this was fair. 
This no doubt came as a shock to Mr Y and meant he had to spend time arranging 
alternative cover. I think its reasonable that BISL compensates him for this. But Im satisfied 
that the £250 payment it has already offered is fair in these circumstances.  
Ive thought about Mr Ys comments that his new insurance cost more due to the limited time 
he had to arrange this. And that its a well-known fact that insurance quotes for renewal must 
be sought four to five weeks in advance. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr Y obtained a 
quote from BISL nine days prior to the cover going live. He was given 16 days notice in 
which to obtain alternative cover. So, I dont think hes shown that he suffered a loss in 
relation to this point. 
As discussed BISL was able to cancel Mr Ys policy, which it did in line with his policy terms 
and conditions. So, although Im sorry Mr Y had to find alternative cover, and this was more 
expensive than the premium BISL offered in error, I dont think it needs to do anything more 
to resolve his complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman