DRN-3284436
Complaint
Mr Y has complained about the overdraft charges Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
applied to his current account. Hes said the charges were unfair.
Background
Mr Ys complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Halifax had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicator 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr Y if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ys 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr Y was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr Y fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Halifax continued 
charging Mr Y even though it ought to have instead stepped in and taken corrective 
measures on the overdraft as it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this was the case. Ive looked through Mr Ys account statements throughout the period 
concerned. And I cant see that Halifax ought to have taken corrective measures in relation 
to Mr Ys overdraft during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mr Y used his overdraft. And might say this in itself was an indication      
Halifax ought to have taken action. But I also think its important to look at Mr Ys incomings 
and outgoings as well as any overdrawn balance and whether it was possible for him to have 
stopped using his overdraft, based on this. After all if he was locked into paying charges 
because there was no prospect of him exiting his overdraft then his facility would have been 
unsustainable for him. 
However, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Y 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions as well as transfers going from Mr Ys account. Indeed, its 
fair to say a significant proportion of Mr Ys expenditure was discretionary and the credits 
going into his account suggested he could have cleared his overdraft within a reasonable 
period of time had he wished to do so.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr Y wasnt 
experiencing difficulty. But there isnt anything in these statements in themselves which 
ought to have alerted Halifax to this. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
Halifax to have proceeded adding the charges that it did  especially as Mr Y had funds in 
other accounts and bearing in mind the implications taking corrective action in these 
circumstances would have been disproportionate. I dont think Halifax charged Mr Y in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was unfair to do so. As this is the case, 
Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr Y. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman