DRN-2649773
The complaint
Mrs C says the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal), trading as Portafina 
LLP, to transfer her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits into a personal pension 
with Liverpool Victoria (LV) and the recommended investment fund, was unsuitable.
Mrs C is represented by Rightside Financial Services Limited (RFL)
What happened
Mrs Cs husband received literature about having a free pension review. He didnt want to 
take up the offer, but Mrs C wrote to Portal on 31 January 2014 asking if it could look into 
whether she could release some funds from her OPS pensions.
After initial work had been undertaken, for example obtaining details of her pension benefits 
from her OPS provider, a telephone meeting took place between Mrs C and one of Portals 
para-planners on 2 May 2014. Information was gathered from her about her circumstances, 
objectives and matters such as her attitude to risk. 
Portal issued a suitability report dated 16 May 2014, identifying her objectives:
-You would like to make home improvements and repay your debt.
Mrs C was an active member of the local government pension scheme. She had two OPS 
funds. She had over 24 years of qualifying service at the time she received advice. 
Ultimately, she was decided to opt out of her OPS and transfer her accrued benefits, which 
had a value of around £98,000.
Portal noted its recommendation would allow Mrs C to access tax-free cash (TFC) of around 
£24,500. It recommended she invest the bulk of her residual pot into an LV personal 
pension, through its Vanguard Life Strategy 80% Equity Fund. The balance was used to pay 
Portals initial fees.
RFL approached Portal on Mrs Cs behalf in September 2019. It raised several concerns 
about the advice shed been given in 2014. For example, it said the insistent client process 
followed wasnt genuine. It said the transfer of her OPS benefits had been unsuitable. It had 
concerns about the risk assessment process. It felt she wasnt provided with the information 
she required to make an informed decision. And that Portal had failed to meet its regulatory 
obligations. 
Portal sent Mrs C its final response to her complaint in November 2019. It refuted the 
allegations raised by her representative. It said it had adhered to regulations in providing her 
with advice. It said it had recommended she shouldnt transfer her benefits nor opt out of her 
OPS. But as Mrs C wanted to proceed it followed correct insistent client procedures. It was 
satisfied that it had handled matters such as the risk assessment process properly and had 
given her the information she needed.     
An Investigator considered Mrs Cs case and thought it should be upheld. She found the 
insistent client process had been flawed and she had concerns about other elements of 
Portals approach. It disagreed and so Mrs Cs complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mrs Cs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mrs C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
At the time of the advice Portal gave Mrs C, and important context, COBS 19.1.6 made the 
following specific point about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my 
emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Portal was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mrs C to be able to 
make an informed decision.
- Give Mrs C a copy of the comparison, drawing her attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mrs C understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, Portal had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements
proposed before it advised Mrs C on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
On balance, Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that it met the regulatory requirements 
placed on it. Ill explain why. 
There are several documents relating to Portals transaction with Mrs C that are important to 
my consideration, these include the Pension Options Personal Financial Questionnaire (fact 
find) and the Suitability Report. Ive also listened to the call between Mrs C and Portal on 2 
May 2014.
At the time of Portals advice Mrs C was 55 years old and her OPS normal retirement date 
was 67. She was married with a non-dependent child. Mrs C worked for a council and 
earned around £12,000 a year. She was a member of her employers pension scheme.
Theres no detailed information about Mrs Cs household incomings and outgoings, although 
the indication is there was a small net disposable income each month. Her husband had an 
outstanding credit card balance of around £1,500 and they had a car loan with a balance of 
about £2,000. 
Mrs C was a home owner. She thought her property was worth around £85,000. She didnt 
know what the outstanding mortgage was, but it had four years to run. Aside from her and 
her husbands pensions, there were no other household savings, assets or liabilities.
Mrs C was an active member of her OPS which had two funds. These had a combined value 
of around £98,000. This was her only pension provision. When asking the question about 
what pension income she would require in retirement, the answer recorded is unknown.
The objective Portal recorded for Mrs C in this transaction was:
-You would like to make home improvements and repay your debt.In responding to the Investigators view, Portals main argument was that Mrs C had been an 
insistent client. It said it had clearly recommended to her that she shouldnt transfer her OPS 
benefits. But she wanted to proceed. It said its suitability report had made clear it would 
therefore treat her as an insistent client. And she had subsequently returned a signed 
insistent client declaration form to say that she wanted to go ahead.
Its also clear from Mrs Cs letter to Portal in January 2014 and the discussion she had with 
Portal in May, that she wanted to access cash from her pension. During the telephone 
conversation, when told by Portals para-planner that he didnt think its adviser would 
recommend the transfer, but that they could still help her with getting access to her benefits, 
she said she would proceed anyway and that shed made up her mind. 
Ive thought carefully about what Portal has said. Ive also thought about Mrs Cs disposition 
at the time of the advice and what she told Portal. This isnt a clear cut case and Portals 
position isnt without some merit. But on balance, in the circumstances of this case, Ive 
decided in her favour.
Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should 
communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client is able to 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation. 
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction. 
Portal also needed to obtain Mrs Cs acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at her request. And I think this acknowledgement shouldve been in Mrs Cs own 
words.
Ive reviewed Portals approach to how it conducted business with Mrs C as an insistent 
client. For example, Portal has provided a letter it sent Mrs C, apparently the same day it 
had first spoken to her on 2 May 2014. It was a short letter in which it recommended she 
shouldnt proceed with the transfer of her OPS benefits. The following is an extract from that 
communication:
You currently have a pension with [the council] which has a Transfer Value of £94,702, from 
which you could release a total amount of £23,675 as a tax free lump sum. However, as the 
critical yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with this provider is 
[13%], it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you will be 
waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £7,628 per annum and a tax free sum of 
£15,543 which is payable at retirement age 65.
A second paragraph in similar terms covered her other smaller fund which was also part of 
her OPS.
In the same short letter to Mrs C, Portal immediately went on to say the following:If you still wish to go-ahead with pension release, we can still help you with this. As this is 
against our recommendation, we now need you to complete and return the insistent client 
form confirming you are aware of the benefits you would be giving up.
I enclose a form with the various options available to you. Please can you complete and 
return the forms to us in the pre-paid envelope as soon as possible. Once we have this, I will 
arrange to send out all the relevant application forms and suitability report detailing our 
advice.
Attached to the letter was a form with two options  the first was to take TFC and reinvest 
the residual funds with, Mrs C being treated as an insistent client. The second option was to 
remain with her OPS, which it recommended. Portal also provided Mrs C with an insistent 
client template letter to complete and return if she took the first option.
Mrs C completed the forms provided by Portal to say she wanted to transfer her OPS 
benefits. Portal then wrote to her and provided a suitability report around 16 May 2012.
Ive thought carefully about what Portal did and what its said about the insistent client 
process it followed. Ive several concerns about it. And like the investigator, Ive concluded it 
was flawed. I say this because:
- While its communication with Mrs C did set out its recommendation for her not to 
proceed with the transfer, this was seriously undermined by advice in the same short 
letter about how she could still go ahead. Indeed, this was a pattern repeated 
throughout its process.
- I note that Portal only send Mrs C the suitability report after shed decided she 
wanted to transfer her OPS. I find this also undermines the process  how could she 
have been expected to take a fully informed decision beforehand without access to 
the analysis?
- The insistent client form Mrs C signed was a template. It wasnt in her own words. It 
wouldve been clear to Portal that she had little knowledge or experience of financial 
matters. So, it wouldve been important to ensure she understood what she was 
getting into, and a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in her own 
words that she understood the recommendation being made and why she wanted to 
proceed.
- There are also various examples from Portals process of gaps in the information it 
held, or that it provided Mrs C, to enable her to make a fully informed decision. For 
example, what were the terms of her OPS. Many similar schemes allow early access 
to benefits, albeit often being actuarily reduced, when people have left employment. 
If she knew she didnt have to wait until 67 to take her benefits, what impact would 
this have had on her decision making? 
- The consequences, of transferring accumulated benefits, were not effectively 
communicated. Even less so, the impact of Mrs C opting out of her employers 
scheme was given scant consideration, for example in terms of lost contributions 
from the council; whether she wouldve been able to rejoin later, and if so whether 
the terms have been different?  
Mrs C had little knowledge and experience of pension and investment matters. I think this 
shouldve been clear from the phone call Portals para-planner had with her on 2 May 2014. 
And this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters 
through the insistent client route.For example, Mrs C relayed a story about colleagues who had passed away prior to 
retirement having paid in but not benefitting from their pensions. While unfortunate, it is of 
course comparatively rare for this to happen. Theres nothing captured in the fact find to 
suggest she couldnt reasonably have been planning for an average life span, which for a 
woman of her age was in excess of 80. So, the more significant risk to her concerned 
whether she would have enough income in retirement.
Ive not seen evidence that Portal effectively advised Mrs C about the long-term nature of 
pension planning. The need for a pot of funds to provide an income for many years ahead. 
While its clear Mrs C had a firm idea about wanting to access some of her pension funds to 
use to refurbish her home, Portal hasnt satisfied me it effectively engaged with her about the 
range of options open to financing her short-term objectives. For example, according to the 
fact find she only had four years left on her mortgage which would mean shed have had an 
extra £600 per month disposable income relatively soon. And I cant see it discussed 
alternative approaches to the works on her home such as scaling back, phasing or even 
delaying her plans.  
Its also of note that Mrs Cs required income in retirement is recorded by the para-planner 
as unknown. In the evidence provided by Portal Ive seen no attempt to get to the bottom of 
this reasonably fundamental question. Ive seen no effective comparison of the benefits 
available under her OPS and an illustration of what couldve been available under the new 
arrangements. And as Ive already mentioned, we also dont know what flexibilities were 
available to Mrs C under her OPS.
Portal hasnt satisfied me that it treated Mrs C fairly by helping her to understand the gravity 
of the decision she was about to make. She may have signed an insistent client form, but 
this doesnt absolve it from acting with due care and skill. 
Portals role was to discern what Mrs Cs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what she wanted without any critical thinking. It had to do these things 
because it had to act in her best interests. Even though it recommended Mrs C shouldnt 
transfer her OPS benefits, I dont think its demonstrably met these obligations. 
It cant rely on its recommendation to Mrs C not to transfer  which is always followed up 
immediately with advice that she could proceed anyway - to say that full advice wasnt 
required or that any failings didnt matter. While Portal acknowledged the transfer of Mrs Cs 
OPS wasnt suitable, there were failings in the advice process which meant she wasnt fully 
informed about her position.  
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process Portal followed meant that Mrs C can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in her best interests. And it failed to act with 
due care and skill.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mrs C about 
what was in her best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over 
many years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when early access to benefits is 
contemplated, together with a decision to opt out of an OPS, there needs to be compelling 
reasons, on balance I dont think that was the case here.
Turning to the investment advice Portal gave to Mrs C. I dont believe either party would 
dispute that Mrs C wasnt an investment professional. Nor was she a sophisticated investor. 
From the information gathered by Portal it seems she had little knowledge or experience of 
investing. This is important context when I consider what happened to her.Portal conducted a risk questionnaire with Mrs C. The Pension Release Report had a brief 
section about the outcome of the analysis. It said:
We have recommended a portfolio based on the risk profile you have completed. The 
portfolio will be designed to provide growth, and gradually reduce your risk exposure as you 
come to the age at which you expect to retire...Based on the answers you provided in your 
risk profile we believe you have a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. This broadly 
means: 
-Moderately Adventurous investors typically have moderate to high levels of financial 
knowledge and will usually keep up to date on financial issues. They will usually be 
fairly experienced investors, who have used a range of investment products in the 
past. 
-In general, Moderately Adventurous investors are willing to take on investment risk 
and understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are 
willing to take risk with a substantial proportion of their available assets. 
-Moderately Adventurous investors will usually take gambles where they see the 
potential rewards as being attractive. They will usually be able to make up their 
minds on financial matters quite quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their 
decisions turn out badly, they are usually able to accept that occasional poor 
outcomes are a necessary part of long-term investment.
Some of the responses Mrs C gave to the questions that were part of Portals risk appetite 
assessment are revealing, for example:
-People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  agree
-When it comes to investing. Id rather be safe than sorry  agree
-I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares  agree
-I have little experience of investing in property  agree
-Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on financial matters - agree
I accept Mrs Cs responses to some questions mayve indicated a different outlook and all 
information gathered needs to be taken together and reviewed. But when I listened to the 
call between Portals para-planner and Mrs C, for several of the questions she seems 
uncertain about how to answer, and so agreed to go down the middle (which appears to be 
recorded as no strong opinion). 
I cant find any proper exploration of what underpinned Portals assessment of her risk 
appetite. I cant see where it probed apparently contrary responses, nor that it allowed time 
for proper discussion where she was unsure about her answers. Rather, it seems responses 
were fed into a system and dealt with in a mechanical manner without further enquiry.
As we know, the bulk of Mrs Cs funds after taking TFC were invested in the Vanguard Life 
Strategy 80% Equity Fund. While this was broadly consistent with her assessed attitude to 
risk, Ive set out my concerns about that. Remember also, she was moving from a situation 
where her public sector employer was effectively bearing most of the risks with her pension 
provision, to a situation where she was exposed to market risk. So, I think its more likely 
than not, Portal put too high a score on her risk appetite. 
My conclusion here is further strengthened by my concerns about Portals assessment of 
Mrs Cs capacity for loss, which doesnt appear to have been properly thought through. I 
cant see on what basis it concluded she had a suitable level of capacity to cope with 
investment losses. Although she had another 12 years or so before the SRD, she was being advised to switch all her accumulated provision and to invest the bulk of it in equities, of 
which she had little or no experience. She had no other assets or savings to fall back on.
Overall, Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its recommendations than providing 
effective advice about what was in Mrs Cs best interests concerning her valuable pension 
funds and retirement planning. 
Portal was being paid a lot of money to provide best advice to Mrs C. Those fees are 
another area of concern. Its recorded that she was charged 5% of the transfer value for the 
initial transaction. And there was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portal. There were also fees 
for her new pension provider and management fees associated with the fund she was 
investing in totalling a further 0.64% of the value of her funds.
Portal failed to provide a clear comparison of the charges she would incur in the new 
arrangements with her former pension plans.
Portal shouldve provided Mrs C with fully formed and unequivocal advice not to proceed 
with the transfer of her OPS benefits, and not to opt out of her OPS scheme. Neither should 
it have advised her to place her pension fund into a personal pension plan with LV and the 
specific investment fund it recommended. I say this because of the flaws Ive found in its 
advice process; what it knew about her attitude to risk and capacity for loss; and her lack of 
experience of the sort of investments it was recommending.
I cant see that accessing her TFC was pressing for Mrs C. If shed had a need to access 
finance, potentially better alternatives werent properly explored by Portal. Nor was there an 
assessment of her retirement income requirements.
I think that if Portal had given Mrs C appropriate fully formed advice, she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the transfer of her OPS benefits, nor would she have opted out of her employers 
valuable scheme. I think fuller information and better analysis wouldve had an impact on her 
decision making. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go 
against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mrs Cs OPS benefits and her opting out of her 
scheme could sensibly be regarded as fair to her. As such I think Portal failed to meet the 
regulatory requirements placed on it when providing her with advice and making the 
arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, on balance its reasonable to 
uphold this complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mrs Cs case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mrs C 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mrs C the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Portal doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mrs C can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. She may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
I consider Mrs C wouldve remained in her OPS and wouldnt have transferred her 
accumulated benefits. Portal Financial Services LLP should therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Cs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mrs Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs C within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mrs C. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.  
Distress and inconvenience In addition, I consider that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mrs C compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £300. This is in recognition of the failings Ive identified and 
the impact these have had on her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. I require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay compensation to her as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman