DRN-4107642
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice he received from True Potential Wealth Management LLP 
about transferring his defined benefit occupational pension scheme. 
What happened
In January 2022, Mr T was approaching retirement. He was a deferred member of his former 
employers occupational defined benefit (DB) scheme under which he had 25 years of 
qualifying service and he was also a member of his current employers workplace pension 
scheme. 
Mr T met his financial adviser as he wanted advice regarding his deferred DB scheme. 
Mr Ts financial adviser completed a fact-find and gathered data including information from 
the DB scheme which had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £968,639. As Mr Ts 
adviser didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on DB scheme transfers, 
he was referred to a pension specialist at True Potential. 
In February 2022, True Potential advised Mr T about transferring his deferred DB scheme. 
True Potential provided Mr T with information about the review it was carrying out and about 
what the charges for its service were. It also gave Mr T a copy of its Terms of Business. 
There True Potential explained that it was a restricted advice firm and set out that, for 
occupational scheme pension transfers, it offered True Potential portfolios and tax wrappers 
held on its True Potential wealth platform. It also set out that its charge for advising on 
occupational pension scheme transfers was 1% of the fund value capped at £3,000.
True Potential sent Mr T its suitability report along with a transfer value comparator on 
9 February 2022. True Potential noted that Mr T had the following objectives:
He wanted to be able to access his pension flexibly rather than receive a low fixed 
income he didnt require from the DB scheme.
He wanted to be able to pass his pension on to his family (specifically his siblings) 
when he died as he had no spouse or children.
The report assessed Mr T as having a balanced attitude to risk (ATR) and recommended 
that he transfer out of his DB scheme to a True Potential self-invested personal pension plan 
(SIPP). However, when he compared the fund and platform charges for the SIPP against 
those of his current workplace pension scheme, Mr T noted that they were significantly 
higher. 
On 16 February 2022 Mr T contacted True Potential. He asked for some clarification about 
the charges for the SIPP. He also said the best option for him was to transfer his DB scheme 
to his existing current workplace pension and that doing so was his current intention. Mr T 
asked True Potential if it would review the fund charges and let him know if its 
recommendation not to transfer his DB scheme to his existing workplace pension had 
changed.  
True Potential replied to say that the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) 
required it to analyse the default option under the workplace pension as a potential 
destination for the funds. It said the default option under Mr Ts workplace pension was a 
lifestyle fund which had a cautious risk profile. True Potential said that an investment with a 
cautious risk profile wasnt in line with Mr Ts balanced ATR. So, it said, although the 
charges were lower in the default fund of Mr Ts workplace pension, because the fund didnt 
align with his ATR, it would not be a suitable destination for his transferred DB scheme. True 
Potential said it appreciated Mr Ts desire to transfer his DB scheme to his existing 
workplace pension but said that that would be against its advice. True Potential said it was 
unable to facilitate a transfer that went against its advice. It said if Mr T wanted to proceed 
with the transfer to his workplace pension then after he had paid its invoice it would sign the 
forms which stated hed received advice. 
Mr T replied to say that he wanted to transfer his DB scheme to his workplace pension. He 
also said he would like the form that said hed received advice and he said hed settle True 
Potentials invoice. True Potential signed the forms but Mr Ts workplace pension 
administrator said it was unable to receive the DB scheme transfer because it needed to be 
processed by a financial adviser. Because True Potential had declined to process the 
transfer as it was against its advice, it didnt go ahead. 
Mr T complained to True Potential in late March 2022. Specifically he said:-
His ATR was irrelevant because his workplace pension offered a choice of different 
funds with varying levels of risk. 
That the lifestyle fund in his workplace pension starts to de-risk six years before his goal 
to retire age which was set to age 70 so it wouldnt have started de-risking before March 
2024.
True Potential had refused to complete the necessary online form to facilitate the transfer 
because it said he was acting against its advice. 
The opportunity to transfer his DB scheme had now expired and the £3,000 he paid was 
wasted on poor advice that was biased in favour of True Potential products. The advice 
he received was not in his best interests and he wanted a full refund. 
That FCA Guidance FG21/3 stated that the advising firm needed to demonstrate why the 
scheme it was recommending was more suitable than the default arrangement in a 
workplace scheme regardless of whether that firm operated on an independent or 
restricted basis. 
Later Mr T made a further complaint that the new CETV he had received from his DB 
scheme in June 2022 had fallen considerably in value by over £200,000 to £767,964.68. 
Mr T said he felt that True Potential was responsible for his loss. 
True Potential looked into Mr Ts complaint issuing its final response letter to all aspects of it 
on 26 July 2022. True Potential said it gave Mr T a copy of its Terms of Business which 
explained that it was a restricted advice firm that offered True Potential portfolios and 
wrappers held on the True Potential wealth platform in respect of occupational pension 
scheme transfers. 
True Potential went on to say that although it offered restricted advice, it was required by the 
FCA to consider whether Mr Ts workplace pension was a suitable destination for his 
transferred scheme and, having done so, considered that it wasnt. True Potential said this 
was due to the fact that the default fund within Mr Ts workplace pension wasnt aligned to 
his ATR. It also said that under the FCAs rules it was only required to consider whether the 
default investment within any workplace pension scheme was suitable  not whether other 
funds or investments offered by the scheme were suitable. So whilst Mr T may have been able to invest across other available funds, it only had to compare against the workplace 
schemes default fund as per the FCA rules. 
True Potential said too that whilst Mr T said that the lifestyle fund in his workplace pension 
scheme wouldnt start to de-risk until March 2024 he had said he intended to retire in 
March 2022. So, it said, if it had recommended he invest in his workplace pensions default 
fund then the investment would be made in line with Mr Ts actual retirement age as 
opposed to any previously selected retirement age. True Potential said that this is why it had 
concluded the lifestyle default fund had already started de-risking. 
True Potential went on to say it didnt accept insistent client business and as such it 
wouldnt facilitate a transfer which wasnt in line with its recommendation. It said that it had 
signed the forms, as required by the FCA, to confirm that advice had been given in order that 
Mr T could facilitate the transfer on his own. But as Mr T would be acting against its advice 
should he proceed to do so, it couldnt assist him by implementing the transfer. 
In addition True Potential said it couldnt waive the advice fee of £3,000 it had charged Mr T. 
It also said that prior to the review Mr T had been asked to click on a link to accept its initial 
charges which were detailed as 1% of the fund value capped at £3,000. It said it was sorry 
he was dissatisfied with the advice hed been given but it had been made clear to him at the 
outset that the advice would be chargeable even if he didnt go ahead with the 
recommendation. Finally True Potential said it couldnt be held responsible for any reduction 
in value of Mr Ts CETV. 
True Potential said it had provided Mr T with a recommendation that was in line with its 
terms of business and the FCA rules. It didnt agree that it had done anything wrong by not 
recommending that Mr T transfer his DB scheme to his workplace pension or by failing to 
assist him in facilitating it. 
Unhappy with the outcome of True Potentials investigation into his complaint, Mr T 
complained to this service. Our Investigator looked it but didnt think that True Potential had 
done anything wrong. She thought that True Potential had made it clear to Mr T that it only 
offered advice on transferring to its own portfolios and wrappers held on its own platform. 
She also thought True Potential had considered the default arrangement in Mr Ts workplace 
pension scheme as required by the FCA rules. She added that it had made the charge for its 
advice clearly known to him as well as the fact it would need to be paid regardless of 
whether he accepted its recommendation or not. 
Mr T disagreed with the outcome of our Investigators findings. In response, Mr T largely 
repeated points hed previously made. But he also said that hed never received any 
justification from True Potential about the benefits of paying higher charges in comparison to 
his workplace pension. He went on to say that the risk profile of his workplace pension was 
average/balanced and that the balance of investments in his workplace pension compared to 
the balance of investments being recommended to him by True Potential were largely the 
same. Mr T said the only noticeable difference between the two was the huge management 
fees True Potential wanted to charge. Mr T said too that even when a firm was giving 
restricted advice, advisers must be prepared to recommend a workplace pension that is off 
panel. 
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind so the complaint was passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ts strength of feeling about the complaint he has made, Im afraid 
that I dont think it is one that I can reasonably uphold. Ill explain why. 
As agreed by both parties to this dispute, True Potential was providing Mr T with restricted 
advice. Ive set out above that True Potentials terms of business made the nature of the 
service it was providing to Mr T clear and, in any event, Ive seen no comment from Mr T to 
the contrary. The terms of business say that True Potential offered advice about the transfer 
of occupational pensions to limited products and primarily advised on True Potential 
portfolios and tax wrappers held on the True Potential Wealth platform. The suitability report 
True Potential sent to Mr T on 9 February 2022 also stated the same. So Im satisfied that 
Mr T understood he was receiving restricted advice from True Potential.
As Ive also set out above however, True Potential is regulated by the FCA and has to abide 
by the rules set out in the FCA Handbook. When providing a restricted advice service about 
an occupational pension scheme transfer, True Potential is required by the FCA to consider 
whether the consumers (existing) workplace pension is a suitable destination for the 
proceeds of the transfer. So this meant there were potentially two possible recommendations 
True Potential could make for Mr T  the first being that he transfer to a True Potential 
investment or the second that he transfer to his workplace pension. I can see from the 
suitability report that True Potential considered both options and ended up recommending 
that Mr T transfer his DB scheme to a True Potential Investments Platform. But I can also 
see that True Potential considered transferring Mr Ts DB scheme to his workplace pension 
scheme. In the suitability report it stated however that this option had been discounted 
because it wasnt suitable. So Im also satisfied that True Potential discharged its regulatory 
duty to consider Mr Ts workplace pension as a destination for the transferred funds. 
But in advising Mr T, True Potential is also required to ascertain what his ATR is. And I can 
see from the suitability report that it ascertained that Mr Ts ATR was balanced. I can see 
also that it discounted Mr Ts workplace pension as the destination for his transferred DB 
scheme because the lifestyle default fund didnt align with his ATR and consequently wasnt 
suitable. 
The FCA rules state True Potential must consider whether the default investment within any 
workplace pension scheme is suitable. It is not required to consider whether any other funds 
or investments offered by the scheme were suitable. And the default fund for Mr Ts 
workplace pension was a lifestyle fund which was classed as a cautious investment. I can 
see that True Potential considered that the default lifestyle fund that would have been the 
destination for Mr Ts transferred DB scheme funds didnt align with his ATR. So I cant 
agree with Mr T that his ATR was irrelevant here. A consumers ATR is central to any 
pension transfer advice so had to be taken into account by True Potential. I cant agree that 
it would have been suitable for True Potential to ignore Mr Ts ATR when it was advising 
him. The FCA requires firms to act in the best interests of a consumer and one aspect of that 
is to make recommendations that align with the consumers ATR. I appreciate that this didnt 
lead to the outcome Mr T sought but I cant fairly say True Potential did anything wrong by 
making a recommendation that aligned with his actual ATR. 
It matters not for the purposes of the advice Mr T was receiving from True Potential that his 
workplace pension was invested in other more diverse investment funds that were available 
to him. Nor does it matter that he could have chosen to redistribute his transferred DB 
scheme across other funds of his choice. The FCA rules require that the advising firm must 
consider the suitability of the workplace pension scheme as a destination for any transferred 
fund against the default fund for that scheme. And in Mr Ts case, the default fund of his 
workplace scheme did not align with his ATR and was discounted by True Potential on the basis it was unsuitable. I cant reasonably hold True Potential to account for providing Mr T 
with advice that was suitable and in line with his ATR; that would not be fair. So whilst I can 
appreciate Mr Ts frustration and disappointment at not getting the recommendation he 
needed so he could transfer his DB scheme to his workplace pension, I cant reasonably 
conclude that True Potential did anything wrong here. 
True Potential stated in the suitability report how the lifestyle fund had limited equity 
exposure and that it was designed to commence de-risking in the seven years prior to Mr Ts 
retirement date. Mr T has said that was set to age 70 and he could push it out further if he 
wished. But I cant ignore that he had told True Potential that he intended to retire almost 
immediately (in fact doing so a few months later). That being the case, had True Potential 
recommended the default fund in the workplace pension as a destination for Mr Ts DB 
scheme then that investment would have to be made in line with Mr Ts actual retirement 
age as opposed to one that had been recorded previously. So I dont think True Potential 
had unreasonably determined that this meant that the fund had already started to de-risk 
and consequently didnt align with Mr Ts ATR. 
I think that True Potentials advice process demonstrated that it was prepared to recommend 
a workplace pension scheme as a destination for a DB scheme transfer. But I also think that 
True Potential has been able to show why its recommendation to transfer to its own 
investment platform was more suitable for Mr T than investing in his workplace pension 
scheme. I accept that this isnt what Mr T wanted but Im satisfied that True Potential 
followed the FCAs rules and guidance when advising Mr T and making its recommendation. 
Its up to individual firms what business they choose to transact and True Potential has 
chosen not to transact business that goes against its advice and recommendation. I 
appreciate that Mr T is of the view that True Potential should just have assisted him in 
facilitating the transfer. However, there are additional regulatory rules and guidance, not to 
mention risks, associated with transacting insistent client business and, as Ive said, it up to 
individual firms if they wish to offer such a service. True Potential has elected not to do so as 
is its right. As it doesnt offer an insistent client service I cant reasonably find that it was 
wrong to decline to facilitate Mr Ts DB transfer on this basis. 
Mr T has said he thinks that True Potentials £3,000 advice fee should be refunded to him 
because the advice he received wasnt in his best interests and so he can start the process 
again with another adviser.
The FCA states that adviser charges must be fair, clear and not misleading (COBS 6.1A.20). 
I can see that prior to the advice being given Mr T was asked to complete an online 
submission by True Potential. That said: Before we can proceed we need you to confirm 
you are satisfied with the charges for the advice and understand the risks. If we proceed with 
the advice there will be a charge of £3,000Click below to confirm you are happy with this 
charge and happy to proceed with your case to be assessed. And True Potentials terms of 
business says: [you] will be charged on a non-contingent basis. This means that where we 
provide advice, the initial charge will be payable regardless of whether we advise you to 
transfer your pension or remain in the scheme, and regardless of whether or not you accept 
the advice.
Mr T accepted the online submission and he received True Potentials terms of business in 
February 2022. I can also see that in an email to True Potential on 17 February 2022 after 
he received the suitability report Mr T said: If you can email me the invoice and payment 
details and I will settle the bill today.
So Im satisfied that True Potential made Mr T aware at the outset that its fee would be 
payable regardless of the outcome of its advice and I can see that Mr T agreed to do that and has indeed paid it. And True Potential undertook the work required to provide Mr T with 
advice and a recommendation. So I cant in all reasonableness require True Potential to 
refund the fee because Mr T disagrees with the advice it gave him, to do so would not be 
fair. 
Mr Ts CETV suffered a significant drop in value  by more than £200,000  between the 
quote Mr T received in December 2021 and the one he obtained in June 2022. Mr T says 
True Potential should be held responsible for his loss. 
The DB scheme trustees made it clear that the transfer value was only guaranteed for three 
months. The reason for the three-month expiry deadline is CETV calculations are not only 
based on the consumers circumstances, but also whats happening in the wider financial 
markets too. So they are affected by things like gilt and discount rates. That means they can 
go up and down in line with the financial markets. So one CETV will have a different value to 
another. But despite the fact there was a significant difference in value between the two 
CETVs, Mr Ts DB scheme benefits remained the same. If he takes his benefits directly from 
the scheme, then it will have the same spending power regardless of the value of the CETV. 
He can still draw an annual income and take a tax-free pension lump sum should he so wish 
irrespective of the transfer value of the scheme. Thus Mr T suffered no loss in respect of his 
DB scheme benefits. And as he did not, to the best of my knowledge, transfer his DB 
scheme based on the lower June 2022 CETV Mr Ts loss, as he sees it, never crystallised. 
So I cant agree with Mr T that he has in fact suffered the loss he claims. It follows that the 
fall in value between the two CETVs isnt one I can fairly hold True Potential responsible for. 
Finally, Mr T has complained that True Potentials ongoing management and fund charges 
were significantly higher when compared against the charges for his workplace pension. I 
dont disagree. Workplace pensions charges are typically lower than those associated with 
personal pensions as it is often the case that the charges are paid or subsidised by the 
employer rather than the employee. So Mr T is not wrong in noting that the charges 
associated with True Potentials recommendation were indeed significant when compared to 
what he was paying for his workplace pension. But the charges about which he complains 
are based on the value of the investment being made and will change in line with that. The 
investment he was recommended to make was significant in value so any associated fund or 
management charges will be commensurate with that. 
Different types of pension have different charging structures  theres nothing wrong with 
that. What matters is that any charges are clear, fair and not misleading. And I can see that 
the charges for True Potentials SIPP were clearly set out. 
So I dont disagree that charges for the True Potential SIPP were significantly higher  they 
were higher than the zero charge for Mr Ts DB scheme and they were higher than his 
workplace pension where the charges are most likely almost entirely born by his employer. 
And they were significant in their own right because of the value of the investment they were 
based on. What this service needs to be satisfied about is that any charges werent 
misleading, and I dont think they were. 
And whilst True Potential hasnt specifically justified the charges associated with its 
recommendation it did set out in the suitability report why it was recommending its 
investment platform and what the benefits of it were to Mr T. I can see for example it said 
that he would gain the ability to monitor his goal and fund value to ensure he wasnt 
withdrawing too much and to be able to access his adviser directly. I understand that Mr T 
considered the charges for the recommendation were too high when compared to those 
associated with his workplace pension scheme; that is his decision to make. But personal 
pensions do attract charges that are typically higher than DB or workplace schemes and 
those charges are often based on the value of the investment made.It follows that I dont think True Potential has done anything wrong here as it clearly set out 
the charges its recommendation attracted and Ive seen no evidence that they were 
misleading. That Mr T was unhappy that they were higher than the charges associated with 
his workplace pension isnt something I can reasonably hold True Potential responsible for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman