DRN-3763939
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, referred to as Aviva or the 
business, made an error with their whole of life (WOL) policy resulting in the loss of its 
qualifying status for tax purposes.  
Theyre unhappy about the £200 compensation offered by the business for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
What happened
In June 2022, the business wrote to Mr and Mrs M to explain that its error  in the way that it 
had administered the policy  led to the policy losing its qualifying status. However, the 
business confirmed that if a future event occurred  which meant that Mr and Mrs M would 
be liable to pay tax  it would send them a chargeable event certificate (CEC) and refund the 
tax due as a result of its error. In the circumstances, there was nothing else that it could do 
to undo the error, such as setting up a new policy or retrospectively filling out the same 
forms in order to make the policy qualifying again. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Theres no dispute that the business made an error, in that it administered the policy 
incorrectly. However, the undertaking to cover Mr and Mrs Ms tax liability and £200 
compensation offered by the business is broadly fair and reasonable.  
Given the HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) rules, the business is limited in what it 
can do, in terms of reinstating the qualifying status. So, in the circumstances the 
redress is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Its right that Mr and Mrs M shouldnt be out of pocket, and that the business should 
cover any tax liability that might arise from its error, even though at the present time 
its not clear what this might be. But it cant make a payment for a loss that hasnt 
occurred and hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. 
Although the whole experience has been distressing for Mr and Mrs M, the redress 
puts them close to the position they wouldve been in  but for the mistake. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In short, they maintain that the redress isnt reasonable given the stress it has 
caused and is likely to cause the survivor. Theyre still having to live through and fix the 
businesss error. They should never have been expected to deal with a CEC and/or HMRC. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint on the basis that the business did 
something wrong, but the redress offered is fair and reasonable. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs M say, I think the 
redress offered by the business  in the form of an undertaking to pay any tax arising from 
its error and compensation for distress and inconvenience (recently paid)  is broadly fair 
and reasonable.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling about this matter. They have provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs M and the business, and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ms policy was set up as a qualifying policy. I 
note the business concedes that this meant that any gain or profit would usually be 
free from further liability to income tax. 
The business accepts that it made an error by failing to fill out some forms when it 
should have and as a consequence Mr and Mrs M lost the qualifying status on their 
WOL policy which is primarily the basis of my uphold. This means a tax liability will 
most likely apply when a chargeable event occurs  for example when such a policy 
matures, is surrendered or the death of a life assured occurs.  
In a letter dated June 2022, I note the business said:
oYour policy includes an Inflation Protection Option (IPO) that allows your 
benefits and premiums to increase each year.
From 6 April 2013 the Government introduced new rules for qualifying 
policies. Whenever the premium changes on a qualifying policy we need to 
check to ensure that an annual premium limit of £3,600 is not exceeded. This 
limit applies to the total premiums paid by any policy beneficiary across all 
relevant qualifying policies they may hold with any providers.
This meant that each time your premium increased after this date, to retain 
the qualifying status, you needed to complete a Qualifying Policy Declaration 
and return this to us within 3 months of the change of premium.
We didnt tell you about this or provide you with the relevant declaration to 
complete. Unfortunately, under the rules this means that your policy has 
become non qualifying.
Because this is our error if you need to pay any tax to HMRC in relation to this 
policy you will need to send us a copy of the HMRC tax demand and a receipt 
for the payment you have made and well refund this amount back to you.Because the business accepts liability for its error, the key issue for me to consider is 
redress, and whether or not its offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs M say, in the 
circumstances I think the redress offered by the business is broadly fair and 
reasonable. 
Im aware, that owing to external factors  that are beyond the control of the business 
 it cant retrospectively fill out the relevant forms in order to reinstate the qualifying 
status. I note this isnt something that HMRC rules will allow for. I also note that 
taking out a new policy isnt a viable option either, given the cost implications.  
In the circumstances I think the businesss offer to pay any tax liability that arises as 
a result of its error is fair and reasonable. It broadly places Mr and Mrs M in the 
position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred  almost as if they still have 
a qualifying policy that wouldve shielded them from such tax liabilities. In other 
words, the businesss undertaking means that they wont have to pay for the 
businesss error, if such a tax liability arises. So, its arguable that theyre effectively 
in the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred in terms of (future) 
financial loss.  
In the circumstances, I cant say that the £200 compensation isnt reasonable. I note 
the business noticed the error and brought it to Mr and Mrs Ms attention. It also 
provided a solution for its wrongdoing, albeit it would mean the survivor having to pay 
the tax liability and then claim from the business. So, in the circumstances, and on 
balance, notwithstanding what Mr M says about the survivor having to contact HMRC 
and the business at some point in the future, I think £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Im mindful of what Mr M says about the (future) hassle sorting all this out, but I cant 
agree as theres no reason to think it wont just be a straightforward procedure 
whereby proof of the tax liability is provided to the business which then pays the 
amount due. In other words, I cant safely say that the process will be difficult rather 
than straightforward. 
I also note that, other than the £200 compensation, the business isnt obliged to pay 
anything more because Mr and Mrs M havent yet suffered a financial loss in terms of 
tax liability. I cant say that the business has done anything wrong by not paying 
(upfront) for losses that havent yet occurred. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive upheld the complaint but 
not given them what they want. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want to 
hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, on balance I cant say that the redress isnt fair and 
reasonable.  
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give 
them what they want, other than what the business has already offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, as agreed, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should do the following: 
If a tax liability should arise in respect of the WOL policy as a result of its error, upon 
proof of payment, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay this liability. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, should pay Mr and Mrs M £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, if not done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman