DRN-2288686
The complaint
Mr A represented by his daughter, complains that Just Retirement Limited (trading as Just), 
reduced his annuity approximately a year after it had started. 
What happened
Mr A had a pension with another pension provider. When it came to taking benefits Mr A 
chose to shop around and selected to take an annuity with Just as it provided the best rate.
Prior to the annuity being setup, as part of the application Mr A had to complete a health 
questionnaire. The section relevant to the complaint is shown below:
As part of the application Mr A consented to Just obtaining information from Mr As GP. The 
terms of the annuity said:
13. INCORRECT INFORMATION
13.1 We rely on the information that you gave us. If we discover that the information which has 
been given to us in the application form or medical statement is not correct or in
incomplete, we may adjust the amount of your Pension or Dependents Income to the amount which 
would have been payable had the correct information been notified originally or we may, if 
reasonable, cancel the Policy and cease payments. We can reduce future instalments of your 
Pension or Dependents income to the extent necessary to recover the overpayment.
In February 2018, Just Retirement confirmed the yearly income Mr A would receive was 
£5,290.30.
Approximately three months later, Just received a health questionnaire completed by Mr 
As GP. This said:
In January 2019, Just then wrote to Mr A to say that theyd re-written the policy and he would 
now be receiving a reduced pension of £4,877.40. And they would be reclaiming the over-
paid amounts across the next couple of monthly payments.
Mr As daughter complained that she wasnt happy with the reduction and that Just hadnt 
explained why this had occurred.
Unsatisfied with Justs response, she raised a complaint with this service. Our investigator 
looked into it but concluded that Just hadnt acted unfairly. He explained that the terms 
allowed for Just to do what they had done. And that whilst he wasnt an underwriter and 
couldnt comment on the specifics, he could see there were differences between the health 
information which could explain the reduction. And therefore he couldnt say that Just had 
done something wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately I have to decide if Just has done anything wrong in reducing Mr As annuity. And 
whether it needs to do anything to put things right.
Under the terms of the annuity, Just is permitted to make amendments if it receives 
information that is different to what it had at the time of setting up the annuity. So it has 
followed its procedure and Mr A had been informed this was a possibility. However, I accept 
the change to the annuity wouldve come as a surprise and no doubt an unwelcome one.
Just has explained it is also usual procedure for an annuity to be set up and then the health 
information requested from the GP, as this can take some time. And to do so before the 
annuity is set up could cause unnecessary delays. I think this seems fair and reasonable. So 
I dont think it has done anything wrong here.
The crux of the issue for Mr As daughter is the justification for the reduction. I can 
understand her frustration, especially as Just didnt give any reasoning when it wrote to Mr A 
to set out the new terms.
Mr As daughter says she doesnt think it is right that Just can make this change without 
quantifiable evidence to justify it. However, Justs underwriting criteria is commercially 
sensitive data and likely wouldnt be comprehensible to a layperson in any event. So I dont 
think it is unreasonable that it hasnt shared this information, and it has now given a reason 
to explain the change.
Just has explained that the reduction occurred because the initial health information it had 
received in the application hadnt been confirmed by the GP. And when it did receive all it 
needed from the GP, the information had altered and so its underwriters had to rewrite the 
annuity based on the verified information.
Its not within my remit to examine Justs underwriting criteria as this is a legitimate 
commercial judgement. However, I have considered whether the justification for the 
reduction looks fair and reasonable. Having looked at the information, there is one fairly 
stark difference. In the initial report it said under transferring: unable no sitting balance. In 
the latter report it said under transferring: minor help can sit unaided. I dont think its 
unreasonable to conclude that this could have a noticeable impact on an underwriting 
outcome.
There were two other changes in the information as well. Mr As daughter pointed out that 
you might expect these wouldve had the opposite effect and potentially increased the 
annuity. But whilst to the layperson, two changes in the information showing Mr As health in 
a negative light compared to one change showing the opposite, might balance out, but 
underwriting is a much more precise method than that. 
After rewriting the annuity as Just had to do under the terms of the annuity following differing 
information, its actuaries came out with a different result. Unfortunately, this meant a 
reduction in annuity for Mr A. But I dont think this means Just did anything wrong.
I can understand why the situation is difficult for Mr As daughter to accept.  And I dont think 
Justs initial lack of an explanation helped matters. But Just is permitted to follow its own 
underwriting criteria and it has complied with the terms of the annuity in doing so. I dont 
think the procedure it followed was unfair or unreasonable. Its just a very unfortunate 
outcome that the new information meant that Mr As annuity was to be decreased.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman