DRN-3679509
The complaint
Mrs S says she has lost trust in Nationwide Building Society after it sent her new bank cards 
to the wrong address.
What happened
Mrs S visited a branch in April 2022 to change her name after she married. She had multiple 
accounts with Nationwide. The new cards that she requested were however sent to a 
previous address.
Nationwide explained that Mrs S had taken out a mortgage In December 2021, but she had 
not updated the address on her other accounts. Her mortgage welcome letter made clear 
she needed to do this separately. It agreed however that the branch should have checked 
the address her new cards were being sent to when it ordered them. It apologised for not 
doing so and paid Mrs S £125 compensation. It arranged for her address to be updated 
across all her accounts. Mrs S said Nationwide still needed to rebuild her trust.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. He said Nationwide has responded fairly, 
and apologised for not double checking the address for Mrs Ss new cards. It had made 
clear Mrs S needed to update the address on each of her other accounts when her mortgage 
started and it seemed most likely Mrs S had not done that.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans review. She said there 
were multiple addresses and they werent changed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
When Nationwide wrote to Mrs S about her new mortgage it also told her We wont have 
updated your address for any other products you have with us, so its important to make sure 
you tell us about this change. To do this you can either pop into branch or check 
nationwide.co.uk/update-details to find out more.  
Mrs S told us on she did this online, she initially told us this was in December 2021, but I can 
see statements went to her old address until April 2022. She also said however that she 
went to a branch to do it. So I cant be certain when or how she requested the address 
change on all accounts. Nationwide has no record of the request through either channel, and 
says Mrs S did not make the request. On balance, based on the available evidence, I cant 
fairly find Nationwide at fault for this aspect of the complaint.
I agree however, as Nationwide has accepted, it should have confirmed the address before 
sending the cards in Mrs Ss new name. It apologised for this oversight. I have considered 
the level of distress and inconvenience this caused and think that the £125 compensation 
Nationwide has already paid to be suitable. It is in line with what I would have awarded had 
the society not already made a compensatory payment. I note Mrs S was able to retrieve 
and use the cards from her old address.
If Mrs S wishes to report the issue as a data breach she should contact the Information 
Commissioners Office ( www.ico.org.uk).
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman