DRN-3949571
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled her claim 
for a refund of a payment she made using her Nationwide debit card.
What happened
On 13 February 2019, Mrs B paid a dental practice Ill call D £8,495.25 for four implants and 
a cosmetic bridge.
The four implants were placed in March 2019. One later failed and was replaced in 
October 2019. However, her treatment was not complete when D ceased trading in early 
February 2020.
Mrs B initially called Nationwide on 25 February 2020 to ask it to initiate a chargeback. She 
followed this up with a letter dated 26 February 2020, in which she asked it to reimburse the 
full amount.
Nationwide says it didnt initiate a chargeback because it needed more information and 
evidence from Mrs B. 
Nationwide sent Mrs B a text message on 26 February 2020, which said that to move 
forward with her claim, she needed to provide:
evidence of when she should have received the treatment;
proof that shed tried to resolve the dispute with D, such as an email or letter; and
a detailed description of the service shed purchased.
It sent her another text message on 14 March 2020 to say it was still waiting for her 
supporting evidence. This message said she needed to provide:
evidence to show that D was in administration and the date of the administration (it 
suggested contacting the liquidators directly for this);
evidence to show that Mrs B was due to receive the service in the last 120 days; and
further evidence to show that Mrs B had tried to resolve the dispute with D or its 
administrators to the best of her ability.
Mrs B (and her husband) called Nationwide on 14 and 16 March 2020. Unfortunately, 
Nationwide cant provide a recording of the call that took place on 16 March 2020.
However, in a letter she sent Nationwide on 24 March 2020, Mrs B referred to the recent 
telephone conversation shed had with Nationwide, and the two actions it was agreed she 
would take to assist her claim, which were: one, to try and make further contact with [D] 
and second, to get an estimate for the work needed to complete [her] dental treatment as 
originally planned and paid for. In her letter, Mrs B explained that shed sent D a follow-up 
email (and provided proof) but she said she hadnt received a reply. She also explained that 
shed had an initial consultation with another dentist, who had further work to do in order to 
provide a comprehensive estimate for completion. However, Mrs B explained that the dental 
practice was, at that time, only able to carry out emergency procedures because of Covid-19 
and asked if her claim could be put on hold until restrictions were lifted. 
On 8 October 2020, Mrs B wrote to Nationwide again. She explained that following the 
easing of lockdown restrictions, she had found a dentist who could complete her treatment at 
a cost of £9,040 and asked Nationwide to initiate a chargeback. Mrs B explained that her 
earlier claim had been closed due to a lack of supporting evidence. However, she asked 
that the evidence she had provided in February 2020 also be taken into account.
Nationwide told Mrs B it couldnt now initiate a chargeback as it had been more than 540 
days since shed made the payment, and the rules of the scheme say that any claim must be 
made before then.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair and complained to Nationwide. When its position remained 
the same, she referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think Nationwide needed the evidence it requested in 
February 2020, and thought it could and should have initiated the chargeback at the start of 
April 2020. And our investigator thought the claim would have succeeded as she didnt think 
Ds liquidator would have been able to defend the chargeback. As its now too late for 
Nationwide to initiate a chargeback, she recommended it pay Mrs B £8,495.25 with simple 
interest at 8% per year.
Nationwide disagreed with our investigators recommendation, so the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 January 2023, which included the following provisional 
findings:
A chargeback is a way for a debit card provider to reclaim money from a suppliers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services she paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Visa  and a 
strict criteria and time limits apply. To be clear, Nationwide doesnt set the rules and I cant 
change them.
Visas rules say a chargeback must be initiated within 120 days of the last date that the 
consumer expected to receive the service  and one cant be initiated more than 540 days 
from the date of payment in any event.
When Mrs B wrote to Nationwide in October 2020, it explained that it couldnt raise a 
chargeback because of the 540-day rule.
Understandably, Mrs B stressed the extenuating circumstances. She said the Covid-19 
restrictions had prevented her from getting a dentist to confirm what had been done, what 
needed to be done, and how much this would cost.
Regrettably, the rules dont allow Nationwide to consider extenuating circumstances  and 
Visa didnt change its rules or make any allowances during the pandemic. So I dont think 
Nationwide did anything wrong when it chose not to attempt a chargeback in October 2020.
The question then is: should Nationwide have initiated a chargeback sooner?
Ive carefully considered Visas rules, the information and evidence that was available at the 
time, and the nature of the service that Mrs B purchased.To raise a chargeback, Nationwide would have had to choose from a set list of reasons. 
Here, I think the most appropriate would have been Merchandise/Services Not Received. 
Importantly, Visas rules say: The Dispute amount is limited to the portion of services or 
merchandise not received. And they specify what information and evidence must be 
provided, including: confirmation that the service wasnt provided by the expected date; 
confirmation that the consumer had attempted to resolve the dispute with the supplier or the 
suppliers liquidator, if applicable; and, a detailed description of the services purchased.
When Mrs B first called Nationwide on 25 February 2020, she asked her husband, Mr B, to 
speak on her behalf.
Mr B was asked if Mrs B had anything to show what shed purchased  and Mr B said he 
would send Nationwide a copy of the contract. Its not clear to me why Mr B didnt send this 
when he wrote to Nationwide on 26 February 2020 or subsequently. But I appreciate that it 
may be because of what was said during a telephone conversation that I havent been able 
to listen to. In any event, Mrs B has sent us a one-page estimate from D dated 
9 February 2019. Theres a slight discrepancy between the estimate and the payment made, 
but I accept it sets out the treatment Mrs B purchased from D. Unfortunately, its not as clear 
as it could be  and it doesnt say what cost what. On one line, the words All on 4 are typed 
and the words TIAD (upper) have been added by hand next to them, with a stated cost of 
£8,995. The stated cost of all other items on the estimate  including an implant supported 
bridge and an implant supported bridge upper  is £0. This clearly isnt right. But for the 
purpose of a chargeback, it means this estimate isnt sufficient to show the cost of each 
stage of the treatment.
Similarly, despite what we now know about what D had done and what it hadnt, at the time, 
Mr B could only say that Mrs B was part way through her treatment. Specifically, he said 
that, because of complications, Mrs B was probably halfway or two-thirds of the way through 
her treatment  later in the same call, he said Mrs B was at least halfway through her 
treatment. When Mr B was asked if Mrs B had any evidence of what had been done so far, 
Mr B said he didnt. The Nationwide employee said Mrs B may need to see a dentist to get 
this information. In reply, Mr B said this would certainly happen in the very near future 
because Mrs B would need to see a dentist to complete the treatment. Of course, when Mr B 
said this, he couldnt possibly have known what would happen because of the pandemic. But 
its in this context that I need to consider Nationwides decision not to initiate a chargeback at 
this stage.
In summary, there was limited information available at the time about the service Mrs B had 
purchased, and no way of knowing what cost what, or what had been done and what hadnt 
without a report from a dentist. The rules say the dispute amount is limited to the portion of 
services not received. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Nationwide not to raise a chargeback before Mrs B got in touch with it again in 
October 2020.
Whats more, even if Nationwide had raised a chargeback shortly after it received Mrs Bs 
letter dated 24 March 2020, its not possible for me to say that Ds liquidator wouldnt have 
been able to defend the claim because of the limited information and evidence that 
Nationwide could have supplied at the time about what had and hadnt been done, and the 
value of the claim as a result. For the same reason, I dont think I could safely say Visa 
would have determined the dispute in Mrs Bs favour if it had subsequently been referred to 
Visa for a final decision.I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs B. Shes out of pocket through no fault of her own. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think Mrs B needed a report from a dentist, given the 
nature of the services shed purchased and the limited information available. And its clear to 
me that she was unable to get this because of the pandemic. If an exception could be made 
to the 540-day rule, one should certainly be made in her case. Unfortunately, as Ive 
explained above, thats not possible under Visas rules.
Nationwide has confirmed that its received my provisional decision. It says it has nothing to 
add.
Mrs B disagrees with my provisional decision. Ive summarised and addressed her points 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B thinks my decision is unfair. She has reiterated that she was unable to provide the 
necessary evidence within the time limit because of the pandemic and the restrictions in 
place at the time.
I certainly appreciate Mrs Bs disappointment. As I hope I made clear in my provisional 
decision, I also think its unfair that shes out of pocket through no fault of her own. But I 
dont think its Nationwides fault either  for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. 
And regrettably, thats all I can consider.
Mrs B also asks if there is any scope for some form of discretionary payment from either 
Nationwide or Visa.
To be clear, neither Nationwide nor Visa would have paid any money if the chargeback had 
been successful  the money would have been reclaimed from Ds bank. And I simply cant 
comment on whether either is willing to make a discretionary payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman