DRN-3505487
The complaint
Miss R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund a transaction she didnt recognise 
and took too long to investigate her concerns.
What happened
Miss R was with a group of people, some of whom were her friends. One of these people 
asked to borrow Miss Rs phone. Miss R gave them the phone and the Personal 
Identification Number (PIN) to unlock it.
Miss R explained that she left the person with her phone alone for a few minutes. When she 
returned and retrieved her phone, she noticed that a payment had been sent from her 
Monzo account to another persons account using the faster payment system.
Miss R contacted Monzo about this but had some difficulty reporting the issue. There were a 
series of calls between Miss R and Monzo and some of them were quite heated. Eventually 
Monzo dealt with Miss Rs report as an account takeover, which meant the card allocated to 
the account was also blocked. This caused Miss R more frustration because shed only just 
had a new card, but Monzo explained that as someone had been using her app, they 
needed to replace the card to protect her account.
Monzo asked Miss R to report the matter to the police. Miss R explained that the local police 
wouldnt take her report and directed her to Action Fraud who logged it and took no further 
action. There was some confusion about whether Miss R had reported it to the police or just 
Action Fraud.
Miss R thought that various members of Monzo had been unhelpful and rude to her and 
made a complaint about this. Monzo were investigating the loss of her funds but couldnt find 
any point of compromise for how someone could have known the PIN for the banking app - 
which was different to Miss Rs phone PIN. Miss R confirmed that she hadnt given her 
banking PIN to the person who used her phone. 
Once Monzo had finished their investigation they told Miss R they wouldnt refund the money 
but accepted that her earlier attempts to report the loss were handled poorly and paid £25 to 
recognise the level of customer service experienced by Miss R. 
Miss R remained unhappy with how Monzo dealt with her loss and brought her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of 
our investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. Miss R 
explained what had happened and Monzo provided information about the transaction and 
their dealings with Miss R. Monzo explained that Miss R had been sent funds from the same 
person who received them from her account and believed the matter was something for 
them to settle between them. Miss R explained that she sold clothing and the money 
received from this person was related to sales and nothing to do with the payment made to 
them from her account.
Our investigator thought that Miss R was responsible for making the transaction and that 
Monzos investigation was conducted without undue delay. Miss Rs complaint wasnt 
upheld.
Miss R remained unhappy with the outcome and asked for a further review of her complaint 
which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Miss R liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss R authorised 
the transactions, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the internet banking app conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Rs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss R. Ill now need to consider if sufficient evidence has been provided to show 
that Miss R consented to the transaction.
To gain access to the Monzo banking app requires knowledge of the PIN, which here is 
different to the PIN needed to open Miss Rs phone. There are settings available on the app 
that allow it to be left open, so its possible that once someone was able to gain access to 
Miss Rs phone, the banking app could have been opened. But, in order to set up a new 
payee  which is what happened here  the banking PIN would be needed to confirm the 
new payee. This extra security step is designed to prevent such unauthorised use of the 
app.
Miss R has confirmed that she didnt give her banking PIN to anyone and the PIN wasnt an 
obvious one. So, its difficult to see a plausible explanation that would allow someone to 
access Miss Rs banking app and set up a new payee without being given the PIN. I dont 
think its likely it could have been guessed as there are too many possible combinations. 
Whilst Im sure Miss R will disagree with me, theres no plausible explanation how someone 
could have obtained her banking PIN, so I think that its more likely than not that Miss R was 
responsible for making this transaction.
Customer Service
When Miss R reported her concerns, she had some difficult conversations, and having 
listened to them, I can see why she was frustrated at how some of the security questions 
were interpreted. Its apparent that Miss R continued to get more frustrated which led to 
more heated conversations. Monzo attempted to understand what had happened to Miss R 
and used their account take over process to secure her account.
I realise Miss R was frustrated about this because shed just had a new card and her current 
loss wasnt through the use of her card. She thought it was unnecessary for Monzo to block 
her card and issue a new one. But, Monzo felt this was the best way to secure Miss Rs 
account when they werent sure what had happened. I dont think Monzos approach was 
unreasonable here because it wasnt clear what other access that person had had, and this 
left Miss R vulnerable to other losses if her card wasnt replaced. Monzo could have explained this to Miss R in clearer terms but I appreciate some of the calls were difficult as 
often both parties were talking over each other.
Monzo later recognised that they could have provided better service to Miss R when she 
made her report. I think the £25 payment was a reasonable way for them to recognise this 
and wont be asking them to do anything further.
Investigation Delay
Ive looked at the timeline of Monzos investigation and this was completed within about two 
weeks. I dont think Monzo delayed their investigation and the timescale was a reasonable 
one given the circumstances of the complaint by Miss R. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman