DRN-1537444
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service hes received from Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S had his boiler serviced by a third party engineer. The engineer found the programmable 
stat had been bypassed and the wires hadnt been made safe.
In August 2019, Mr S called IPA to let it know about the issue. He thought the boiler had 
been left in that condition by one of its contractors after theyd carried out repairs in July 
2017. He told IPA he had a disability and that the bypassing of the programmable stat made 
it difficult for him to use the boiler. He wanted IPA to reimburse him for his engineers 
invoice.
IPA looked into Mr S concerns. It arranged for a contractor to inspect Mr S boiler. They 
found the wires were dead and locked away inside a casing and the boiler. They thought the 
wires were from when a previous wireless control had been in place. IPA offered to send out 
an engineer to fit a new programmable stat. But after the engineer didnt get in touch with Mr 
S to arrange a time and IPA struggled to get in contact, Mr S decided not to go ahead.
Mr S asked us to look into his complaint. He said hed heard IPAs call handler discussing 
him rudely while hed been on hold. Hed had to get the boiler replaced. And IPA hadnt 
taken into account his specific communication needs when it wrote to him.
IPA continued to investigate Mr S complaint. It sent him a cheque for £250 as compensation 
for the state his boiler had been left in. It also sent Mr S a cheque for £380 - £50 towards the 
cost of the third party engineers report and £330 to pay for a new programmable stat. Mr S 
remained unhappy with IPAs offer.
Our investigator thought IPAs offer was fair. He thought IPA had responded fairly to Mr S 
concerns by sending out an engineer to look at the boiler in August 2019. Mr S told the 
investigator hed had the boiler replaced at no cost to him, but he hadnt been able to afford 
an add-on programmable stat. The investigator asked Mr S for evidence of the cost of the 
stat, but Mr S didnt provide anything further. 
The investigator thought IPAs payment to cover the cost of the engineers report, plus the 
cost of a programmable stat was fair. And considering everything, he thought the 
compensation IPA had paid Mr S was fair and reasonable.
Mr S disagreed. He asked for the investigators findings to be reviewed. So his complaints 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think IPA has resolved 
Mr S complaint fairly. Ill explain why.
Its clear that at some point, likely between July 2017 and January 2019, a programmable 
stat in Mr S boiler was bypassed by an engineer. The last recorded job note prior to Mr S 
calling IPA about the loose wires was in July 2017. IPA accepted its contractor had left the 
boiler in a parlous state. So it seems to me IPA accepted responsibility for the bypassing of 
the programmable stat and leaving the old wireless control in the boiler. 
The complaint notes show Mr S called IPA in January 2019 to let it know hed had the boiler 
serviced by a third party engineer and to tell it about the issues the engineer had found. He 
wanted IPA to send out an engineer to inspect the boiler, but this didnt happen. IPA asked 
Mr S to send in an engineers report to show what theyd found. I think, given Mr S had told 
IPA there were potentially unsafe loose wires in his boiler and given his vulnerability, which it 
knew about, IPA shouldve arranged for an engineer to go out at this point.
It doesnt look like Mr S contacted IPA again until August 2019 with a copy of the engineers 
report. This report was dated 22 February 2019. At this point, IPA arranged for a contractor 
to go out and inspect the boiler. Im satisfied, given the contractors report, that he did do a 
full inspection of the boiler. He found the wires were cased in a PCB (printed circuit board) 
and were dead wires, having previously been disconnected. Happily, this means Mr S 
hadnt been at risk from the wires beforehand. But IPA couldnt have known that until it 
inspected the boiler.
It seems from the report that the contractor left the boiler in good working order, although he 
didnt fit a programmable stat, which I appreciate Mr S wouldve preferred. But I can see that 
around four weeks later, IPA offered to get a new programmable stat fitted to Mr S boiler. 
Its unfortunate that IPA couldnt get in touch with the engineer to ensure this happened and 
that Mr S chose not to take up this option. I do think though that it was a fair attempt to 
resolve Mr S complaint.
Mr S chose to get his boiler replaced instead. I understand it was through a free scheme. Mr 
S is unhappy because he says its of a lower spec than what he had before and it doesnt 
have a programmable stat on it. I dont think I can fairly hold IPA responsible for Mr S 
choosing to get a new boiler of a lower spec. It seems that the boiler was in working order 
after the contractor visited at the end of August 2019. And IPA had offered to fit a 
programmable stat to make the boiler more user-friendly for Mr S. So it isnt clear that any 
error on the part of IPA meant Mr S needed to replace his boiler.
IPA has paid Mr S the cost of his engineers report and the cost of a programmable stat, 
based on a quote hed previously sent it. So it seems fair to me that IPA has honoured its 
offer to get the programmable stat replaced  including labour costs. I think this is a very 
reasonable response from IPA.
Ive then turned to think about the compensation IPA has paid Mr S. I dont doubt how 
worried Mr S mustve been when he was told he had loose wires in his boiler. As Ive 
explained, I think IPA shouldve investigated this back in January 2019 when Mr S first called 
up.
But I also have to bear in mind whats happened overall. The programmable stat was most 
likely bypassed in July 2017. But Mr S wasnt aware of this until the engineer looked at his 
boiler in January 2019. So it doesnt look like Mr S was using the programmable stat or was 
reliant on it during this period to control his heating and hot water. Theres been no 
suggestion that the boiler wasnt working normally otherwise during this time.And I also have to consider that while Mr S did get an engineers report in February 2019, he 
didnt get back in touch with IPA about it again until seven months later. So it doesnt seem 
that he was particularly distressed by the potentially loose wires.
Ive noted that at times, IPA didnt deal with Mr S calls or complaints as well as it couldve 
done. He had to chase up his complaint and he says he experienced rudeness. I dont doubt 
this put him to some trouble and he was upset by the service he got from IPA. Ive also 
noticed that IPA didnt contact Mr S in the way hed asked it to, which mustve been more 
upsetting for him.
But all in all, I think £250 compensation feels fair for Mr S distress and inconvenience. Its in 
line with what Id have likely awarded, given what happened. Im glad IPA recognised where 
it went wrong and tried to put things right.
Overall, I think IPA has responded to Mr S complaint fairly. I think the compensation its paid 
him and the award for the programmable stat is fair. So Im not telling IPA to pay anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman