DRN-2235528
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy taken out 
sometime before February 2000. Mr L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr L took out a PPI policy with a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. As he disagreed 
the matter has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and explain why below.
Because of the time that has passed Lloyds no longer has the paperwork for the sale or 
full details of how the PPI was sold. So, Ive had to make some assumptions about what 
happened, as follows:
 
Mr L took out his credit card with Lloyds in 1998. The earliest statement that Lloyds 
has sent us is dated January 2000. This shows a payment for PPI. So, Ive assumed 
the PPI sale took place sometime between those two dates, (the presumed period);
Mr L couldnt remember whether Lloyds advised him to take out the policy. Or 
whether it just left it up to him to decide. To be fair to Mr L, Ive followed Lloyds 
approach and assumed that it recommended him tom take the PPI;
Because the date of the sale is uncertain, Ive looked at the policy terms and 
conditions that applied throughout the presumed period. And Ive considered how all 
of these may have affected Mr L. Ive decided this complaint assuming that those 
which were most unfavourable to him were likely to have applied;
Mr L says that Lloyds never explained to him that the policy was optional and that it was 
added to his account without his consent or knowledge. But I think Lloyds made it clear 
that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. I say this because 
Lloyds has sent us sample credit card applications that were in use during the presumed 
period. These require the applicant to actively select PPI. 
Even if it had been Lloyds representative who filled in the application, I think its more 
likely than not that this would have been after a discussion with Mr L about his wishes. 
And that he would have had the chance to review the application before signing it. 
Because it was so long ago I can understand why Mr L can no longer remember this.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr L it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say 
this because:
Mr L was likely to have been eligible for the policy;
Mr L wasnt likely to have been adversely affected by any of the policys main 
limitations or restriction  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing 
medical condition;
Mr L has told us that he was entitled to sick pay and a redundancy package from his 
employment. He also had some savings, (although he said these were for a house 
deposit.). However, following a successful claim, the policy would likely have paid 
10% of his credit card balance a month, had he been unable to work because of 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. These payments would have been 
in addition to any other funds he had, leaving these other monies available to help 
with his other expenditure while he wasnt working. And the payments would have 
been made for up to 12 months, which is a longer period than his sick pay 
entitlement. So, I find that the policy could have been of use to Mr L.
Mr L has also said that he had various other insurance policies. But these would have 
paid out in different circumstances from those covered by the PPI;
The PPI cost no more than 79p a month for each £100 owing on his credit card 
account. Which, in the circumstances of this case, I find means that it was 
competitively priced by reference to other similar policies available in the market at 
the time. And I havent seen anything to suggest that these premiums were 
unaffordable by Mr L. In any event, had he later felt that the policy was unaffordable 
or that he no longer wanted it, Mr L could have cancelled the policy at any time as it 
was paid for monthly
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And Ive concluded that it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
As Ive said earlier, Ive carefully considered everything that Mr L has told us, including that 
his friends and family could have helped him out had he not been working. As we explain on 
our website, we dont usually take this into account because circumstances change  and 
such assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Mr Ls case to make me think 
its reasonable to deviate from this approach here.Mr L also queried why Lloyds settled his wifes complaint(s) on a credit card(s) (sic), which 
were sold at around the same time as his, whereas it didnt settle his. He says their 
employment / financial situations were exactly the same. I dont know the detail of Mr Ls 
wifes PPI complaint(s). But in any event, I have to decide Mr Ls complaint on its own facts 
and surrounding circumstances, regardless of what might have happened in other cases. 
And that is what Ive done here. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman