DRN-3716370
The complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has excluded cover for his childs medical 
condition on a personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S holds a personal private medical insurance policy with BUPA. The policy was fully 
underwritten.
In January 2022, Mr S called BUPA to add his new-born baby to the policy. He told BUPA it 
was suspected that his baby had a medical condition, but that this hadnt yet been confirmed 
by a specialist.
BUPA added a special condition to Mr S policy, which excluded cover for the suspected 
condition and treatment related to that condition. It said that the policy specifically excluded 
cover for pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr S was unhappy with BUPAs decision. He felt it was unfair to apply special conditions for 
new-born babies. He asked us to look into this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt BUPA had been 
entitled to decide whether or not to cover Mr S baby and to apply a special exclusion. She 
thought the policy made it clear that pre-existing conditions wouldnt be covered if theyd 
occurred in the seven years before taking out the policy, even if they hadnt been diagnosed. 
And she felt the policy terms applied to all members, regardless of their age. 
Mr S disagreed. He provided a letter from his childs treating specialist. Briefly, this letter 
stated that BUPA had previously provided cover for the babys excluded condition for many 
other patients. And the surgeon made it clear that the condition couldnt be diagnosed before 
birth.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly 
and Ill explain why.
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr S. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what cover they must provide. BUPAs entitled to 
decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk (in this case, 
claims relating to Mr S babys health). And if so, on what terms it wishes to provide cover. 
What I can do though is to consider whether BUPA treated Mr S fairly.
Mr S policy was taken out on a full medical underwriting basis. This means that BUPA 
considers a persons medical history before deciding whether or not to offer them a policy. 
Mr S childs policy was taken out on the same terms. So BUPA needed to know about any 
medical conditions his baby may have been born with before it could decide on what terms 
to offer insurance cover.
When Mr S called to add his baby to the policy, he told BUPA that his child had a suspected 
medical condition. So in line with full medical underwriting, I think it was reasonable for 
BUPA to take this information into account when deciding whether to add his baby to the 
insurance policy. Ive carefully considered the terms of the insurance contract. This says:
If your underwriting method shown on your Membership Certificate is: 
 Underwritten: we do not pay for Treatment for any Special Conditions detailed on your 
Membership Certificate or any Pre-existing Conditions, see your Membership Certificate 
for more details including what we mean by Special Conditions.
BUPA has defined what it means by a pre-existing medical condition in the glossary section. 
This states that a pre-existing medical condition is:
any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before your Effective Underwriting 
Date: 
  you have received medication, advice or Treatment, or 
  you have experienced symptoms, 
whether the condition was diagnosed or not.
In my view, the terms of Mr S contract with BUPA make it clear that if a policyholder is fully 
underwritten, it wont cover any pre-existing medical conditions which a policyholder has had 
symptoms of or been treated for in the seven years before the underwriting date, even if the 
condition hadnt been diagnosed. As the investigator said, this term applies to all 
policyholders and members, irrespective of their age. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence from Mr S babys surgeon. I appreciate that the 
babys condition couldnt have been diagnosed until they were born. But as Ive set out 
above, the policy excludes conditions which exist before underwriting takes place, even if 
theyre undiagnosed. So I dont think it was unfair for BUPA to conclude that Mr S babys 
condition was specifically excluded and to accordingly apply a special condition to the policy.
I understand too that the surgeon says that BUPA has previously paid claims for the same 
condition. But each case is considered on its own facts, circumstances and evidence. It 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to find that BUPA is bound to pay all claims for a 
particular condition. In this specific case, Im satisfied that BUPA has acted in line with its 
own policy terms when it declined to cover Mr S babys medical condition. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr S position, as I understand that his baby requires treatment for 
their condition. But on the evidence before me, I dont find that BUPA has acted unfairly. So 
Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman