DRN-2746870
The complaint
Ms S complains that TSB Bank plc didnt credit her with all the money she deposited to her 
account.
What happened
Ms S went to a branch to pay in what she says was £935 in cash on 3 June 2020. It was 
suggested she use the immediate deposit machine. She attempted this without success and 
says that some money was retained by the machine. The remaining money was paid in at 
the counter and was confirmed as £740. So, she reported that £195 was missing and was 
told that she would get a call back. Ms S said that this didnt happen and that when she went 
to the branch was told that only £95 had been recovered. Her position was that £100 was 
missing and she thought that branch staff were unsympathetic.
TSB says that staff had explained to Ms S that the machine couldnt be opened during 
business hours for security reasons. And that it had crashed and gone out of service and 
Ms S was the last customer to use it that day. When the branch closed it was checked under 
dual control and £95 was recovered and the machine then balanced. The money was 
credited to her account. It had refunded account fees of £30 to Ms S as a gesture of goodwill 
believing that these were due to the account balance falling below £2,000 following this 
incident. But it then realised that this related to previous periods.
Our investigator didnt recommend that TSB do anything more. The element disputed was 
the amount of money Ms S had to deposit to begin with. And based on what TSB has said 
staff took reasonable efforts to balance the machine. Ms S had been refunded the fees 
which had been correctly charged. So, she thought that this reflected the upset Ms S felt 
when she spoke to branch staff about it.
Ms S didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she was out of 
pocket and the whole experience was awful. She was hurried out of the branch and when 
she came back was made to feel untrustworthy in front of everyone.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 March 2021. I set out below what I 
said.
I asked TSB through our investigator to provide some evidence to support what it said about 
the amount of money found in the machine, the transactions made and the record showing it 
balanced. I also wanted to confirm my understanding that the statement it provided was from 
a member of branch staff who didnt open or access the machine and deal with the deposit. 
It told me that there was no journal roll available for the machine and so it couldnt provide 
any records of individual transactions. It didnt keep records of cash being retained in divert 
boxes. And that there is no documented record of the recovered funds nor by how many or 
which partners this was recovered. It went on to explain some security processes for 
counting and balancing the money including on the day of deposit. These dont add anything 
to support what it has already said and so I wont detail them.
Ms S was also asked for any further information. She explained she had been saving the 
money at home and was depositing this to cover a bill. She said she counted the money 
three times at home and sealed it in an envelope and had written and circled the amount of 
money on the front. She didnt count it again in branch. She repeated that she wasnt treated 
well by branch staff.
I said I was thinking about what is most likely here and I wouldnt be able to say exactly what 
happened. Having said that most of the events are agreed and the dispute is about how 
much money was retained by the machine. So, it is agreed that Ms S had a sizeable amount 
of cash in the first place. After the machine went out of service and she paid the remaining 
money in at the counter she immediately said that £195 was missing. That related to a very 
specific and not rounded amount. She of course expected that this would be carefully 
checked by the branch. So, I thought that this comes down to who made what I accept is a 
genuine mistake here   Ms S in counting the money or the branch.
We dont have a specific burden of proof when looking at complaints. I did think here that 
once some money at least was retained by the machine TSB bore responsibility for dealing 
with it. My understanding is that this type of machine counts any cash deposited and applies 
it straightaway. So, I was struggling to understand why there is no list of such transactions 
now available. That would have helped me for example to understand just what had 
happened at the machine during the period Ms S used it and afterwards. And that it had as 
is said gone out of service and wasnt used again by any other customer. Id no information 
about where in the machine the remaining cash was found, whether it had been counted by 
the machine, or had been purged into the divert box. And I didnt have the source records of 
the machine being balanced on that day. What I also didnt have is any direct statement from 
the members of staff dealing with the machine after the branch closed. I would have 
expected them to take great care given the dispute already raised by Ms S.
I thought about what Ms S could have additionally supplied. She hadnt been expecting there 
to be an issue and I accepted her account that this money had simply been saved up. I 
weighed this against the lack of direct evidence from the branch when I thought that more 
could and should have reasonably been provided by TSB to support its case. I thought it has 
had a reasonable opportunity to do so, and especially as Id now prompted it for more 
evidence. I couldnt make allowances for what I think was key evidence not say being 
retained. I thought that Ms S dispute and complaint could have been anticipated given she 
was clear how much money she had paid in.
So, I needed to decide which evidence to put most weight on taking into account my 
analysis. And I wasnt persuaded by TSBs account of what it did with an amount of Ms Ss 
money retained by the machine given the lack of the supporting evidence Id typically expect 
to be available and retained in a case like this. I thought its most likely a mistake was made 
by TSB. And so, in a very finely balanced outcome I considered that it should pay Ms S 
£100. Given this and what our investigator has already said about the refund of charges I 
said I wouldnt be asking it to do anything more than this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S didnt disagree with the outcome. But she said she wanted to add that the machine had 
returned the money a few times to her and with her putting it back. And that different 
amounts were returned. She was promised a call back and was instead told in front of a 
queue of people. She didnt receive a receipt.TSB didnt make any further comments.
I have considered the further points from Ms S which underpin the errors with the machine 
that day and the service she received. These dont change my provisional findings about the 
case, and I see no reason to depart from those.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank Plc to pay Ms S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman