DRN-1441041
The complaint
Mrs F says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs F was sold PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card in 2004. She completed a 
postal application form. Capital One said the PPI wasn't mis-sold, but refunded some 
premiums Mrs F paid. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs F disagreed, so I've been 
asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons. 
Mrs F ticked a box on her credit card application form indicating she wanted PPI. She didnt 
mark the box indicating she didnt want it. So, I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs F 
didnt have to take out the PPI, and she chose to take it out  although I can understand if 
she cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs F got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. But 
Capital One has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mrs F because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told 
Mrs F about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mrs F, that was unfair.  To put that right, 
Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% 
of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said  including what shes said about her 
employment benefits. But these points dont change my decision. Given the cost and benefits of the policy, and the level of employment benefits she had, I still think shed have 
taken the policy if shed been given clearer information.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman