DRN-4461462
The complaint
Mr M has complained that there is a significant discrepancy between the current book cost 
displayed for three of his shareholdings on his Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) portfolio, 
compared to what he originally paid. 
What happened
Mr M purchased several thousand pounds worth of shares across the three shareholdings in 
question, between 2013 and 2018. 
In February 2022, Mr M raised concerns with Barclays that the book cost displayed on his 
portfolio for certain shareholdings was significantly different to that he paid and what he was 
expecting it to be. 
Barclays responded to Mr M and acknowledged a previous issue when their platform 
migrated from Barclays Stockbrokers Limited (BSL) to Smart Investor (SI) in August 2017. 
This meant some book costs were not showing correctly. Due to the amount of time that had 
passed, Barclays werent able to say whether this had impacted Mr M. 
Barclays say they have recognised that some of Mr Ms book costs are calculated using a 
previous method and not the way they currently calculate them. They say they have offered 
to update this. They also paid Mr M £100 for the handling of the complaint and in particular 
some unsuccessful calls with Mr M. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our investigator looked into it but she was satisfied with the response given by 
Barclays and that the book costs were being calculated correctly. 
Mr M remained unhappy. He said that there was still a discrepancy, and that Barclays were 
making the process more complex. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator that Barclays have 
acted fairly. Let me explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge how frustrating this will have been for Mr M. If he is an 
investor that likes to use and review book costs, and he has lost faith in those calculations, I 
can see why he would be unhappy. 
It is important to note the book cost is calculated using the number of shares and the book 
value (assets if the company was liquidated less liabilities). This is different to the market 
value that Mr M would receive. Which takes into account other factors such as expected 
earnings of the company. Barclays are correct that book costs should be used as a guide 
and I wouldnt expect them to be relied upon for investment decisions or tax purposes. 
However, I have gone on to consider the reasons behind any discrepancies. Firstly, Barclays 
have explained a lower book cost for the March 2016 purchase of shares in 88 Energy, is 
due to multiple sells of the stock. 
There is a discrepancy in the book cost for the April 2016 purchase of ITV PLC shares, since 
the migration from Barclays Stockbrokers to the Smart Investors platform. However, 
Barclays say they have made this clear to Mr M previously and offered to amend it. The 
difference they previously calculated to be approximately £60. 
Barclays have also provided an explanation regarding the book cost for Mr Ms Glencore 
shares. A previous holding from 2013 was sold in February 2018. More shares were 
purchased that month for £774.50, a book cost at the time of this complaint was showing as 
£712.95. Barclays have said this is due to capital repayments that have been made every 
six months following the corporate event impacting the book cost. I am satisfied with the 
explanation they have given. 
Barclays has also confirmed that they are still willing to manually correct any figures. An offer 
I can see they made in writing in February 2022, further to a telephone conversation. I think 
this is fair and Mr M can contact them if he wishes for them to do this. Barclays have also 
paid Mr M £100 for poor service they say they gave him and in particular their handling of 
calls with him. This amount doesnt seem to be in dispute by Mr M and it was paid some time 
ago. It seems fair and appropriate for the impact these had on Mr M and I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything further here. 
In summary, I am satisfied that Barclays have done enough here. They offered some time 
ago to manually update the costs for Mr M. They have compensated him fairly for any 
miscommunications and service issues and I am satisfied with the answers they have given 
for any previous discrepancies in the book costs. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman