DRN-3587609
The complaint
Ms C complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her in 
an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms C was given a loan by Everyday Loans in May 2019. She borrowed £2000 and agreed to 
repay this over 18 months.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Everyday Loans gathered some information from Ms C before it agreed to lend. It asked Ms 
C about her income and expenditure. It says it verified her income by checking a wage slip 
and seeing documentation about her benefits. It carried out a credit check and then also 
checked her bank statements. Those checks suggested Ms C had enough disposable 
income each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Ms C was entering into a fairly significant commitment with Everyday Loans. She was 
agreeing to make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So, I think it is right that 
Everyday Loans wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Ms Cs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it 
did were sufficient to achieve that aim. I think Everyday Loans checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what Everyday Loans gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made 
a fair lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that Everyday Loans conducted. The search did show that 
Ms C had utilities accounts that were in arrears and also that she was making use of a 
revolving credit account for some time. I can see why the investigator mentioned all of this in 
their letter to both parties. But I currently think Everyday Loans took all of this into 
consideration when it made its affordability assessment. It asked Ms C about the arrears she 
had accrued, and she told it she was in dispute with these regarding a previous address. I 
think it was reasonable for Everyday Loans to accept the explanation that Ms C gave about 
this on this occasion. Ms C also said she was going to use the proceeds for this loan to pay 
off the revolving credit account and also pay for a holiday. So again, I think it could accept at 
face value what Ms C said she was going to use the loan for and deduct this payment from 
its affordability assessment. There was nothing else within Ms Cs credit search results that I 
think ought to have prompted it to find out more or anything that would give it concerns. 
Ms C told Everyday Loans that her income was £1871. It then calculated that her 
expenditure was £1492 after using Office of National Statistics data to calculate her living 
expenses, and then use what was on her credit file. Its assessment seemed to tally with 
what was given in Ms Cs bank statements as well. I think when I consider how much Ms Cs 
verified monthly income was, and what it had calculated her disposable income was, I think 
the credit she had taken out was affordable for her.
I appreciate that Ms Cs financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest, and I do acknowledge that after she had been given the loan she went 
on to have problems managing her finances. But I think that the checks Everyday Loans 
performed were proportionate and didnt suggest that Ms C was facing any current problems 
in managing her finances at that time. I think Everyday Loans was entitled to rely on what Ms 
C said about her finances, and her circumstances at the time. And that information 
suggested that she would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I 
dont currently think Everyday Loans was wrong to give the loan to Ms C.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Both Ms C and Everyday Loans have not responded with any 
additional points for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold 
Ms Cs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman