DRN-1965078
The complaint
Mrs B is complaining that a car FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo) supplied 
under a hire purchase agreement is of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs B entered into a hire purchase agreement with Motonovo to acquire a car. 
The cash price of the car was around £17,400, it was around seven years old and had 
travelled around 56,000 miles.
Mrs B says shortly after receiving the car a warning light would intermittently appear on the 
dashboard to say there was a fault with the gearbox. She says it would appear for a few 
seconds and then go off. However in July 2019 Mrs B says the fault became more significant 
and the car would occasionally not go into gear. She says on one occasion her husband got 
stuck in the middle of a junction. So she contacted the supplying dealership to arrange for 
the fault to be fixed. 
Mrs B says she was referred to the warranty provider who arranged to get a garage to 
diagnose the fault codes. The garage cleared the fault codes. Mrs B says she paid to have 
the fault codes diagnosed by the garage. But Mrs B says the warranty provider wasnt willing 
to do anything further and she says she was told she needed to take the car to a specialist 
for an inspection.
In August 2019 Mrs B contacted Motonovo discuss the issue. Motonovo arranged for an 
independent company to carry out an independent inspection of the car. The engineer 
inspected the car and said he did a 16 mile test drive but he said he couldnt find any 
evidence of a fault. So Motonovo didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint  although it said it would 
refund the cost of any diagnostic reports Mrs B may have had to pay for. It said it would 
reconsider the matter if Mrs B could provide any further information to support evidence of 
the fault and what was causing it.
Mrs B didnt agree with the independent report she says her husband went with the 
engineer. She doesnt think the engineer carried out a full thorough road test as he only 
drove the car in automatic mode, but not in the Tiptronic mode which is where she says the 
fault often occurred. So she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. He said Mrs B had provided photographic 
evidence of the fault code appearing on the dashboard. He said Mrs B had also provided a 
video which he thought showed her being unable to select gear on the car. So he thought 
Motonovo should do the following:
Inspect and repair the gearbox;
Refund all month payments made since August 2019;
Pay £150 compensation.
Motonovo didnt accept the investigators opinion. It said a photograph of a fault code on the 
dashboard isnt evidence of a fault. And it highlighted that the independent engineer couldnt 
find any evidence of a fault with the car. It said it was willing to reconsider the complaint if 
Mrs B provided a diagnostic report demonstrating the fault codes.
As Motonovo didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
Since this, Mrs B arranged to have a manufacturing dealership inspect the car. And they 
said there was a gearbox warning on the dashboard and it said the car needed a new 
gearbox sensor module unit. But it said it would need to remove the gearbox to carry out the 
repair. And it estimated the total cost of repair to be around £2,400.
I referred this report to Motonovo and I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. I said I 
was satisfied the fault the manufacturing dealership has highlighted is likely to be linked to 
the original fault highlighted in July 2019. I thought the most pertinent point here was that the 
cash price for the car was over £17,000. I didn't think a reasonable person would expect to 
incur such a significant repair cost within two months of acquiring the car. Based on this, I 
was inclined to agree with the investigator that the car wasn't of satisfactory quality.
Motonovo didnt agree with my initial thoughts. It reiterated that the independent engineer 
couldnt find a fault with the car. It said it had asked Mrs B to provide a report setting out the 
initial faults found or a further report indicating the faults with the car, but she didnt provide 
this. It also highlighted that the general conditions set out that Motonovo isnt liable for any 
further damage caused by Mrs B knowingly driving a car with a driving fault. It said Mrs B 
was advised to not drive the car on 31 July 2019, but it thinks she continued to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
Mrs B acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Motonovo is responsible 
for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. 
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Mrs B paid around 
£17,400 for the car. The car was around seven years old and had travelled 56,000 miles at 
the point of supply. 
Its clear there was a warning light appearing on the dashboard  Mrs B has demonstrated 
as such from the photographs. Im also persuaded there were issues with the car when 
Mrs B initially contacted the supplying dealership. Mrs B has been consistent with her 
testimony about the issues shes had with the car. And Ive found her testimony plausible 
and persuasive.
I acknowledge and understand Motonovos comments that the independent engineer was 
unable to replicate the faults. But it also needs to be remembered that this was an 
intermittent fault  i.e. it wasnt present all the time. So, just because the fault didnt appear 
during the 16 mile test drive, it doesnt mean the car was fault free.
Ive spoken with the manufacturing dealership who carried out the recent report and theyve 
said they believe the clutch was slipping which was causing the issues Mrs B has said the car was having. They said they plugged their computer into the cars computer which 
highlighted the fault codes present in the car. And it said, using a system the manufacturer 
uses, they were able to diagnose the fault as being with the gearbox sensor module unit.
So Im satisfied there is a fault with the car. The issue I now have to think about here is 
whether those problems were likely to have been present or developing at the time of sale, 
as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used car. Ive also considered 
whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems such as Mrs B has 
experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short is the car sufficiently durable? 
Mrs B has said the warning light started to appear almost as soon as she acquired the car. 
She then reported the incident to the supplying dealership around two months after she 
acquired the car. Taking everything into account, I think its most likely the fault was, at least, 
developing at the point of supply.
However, just because a fault was developing on a car at the point of supply, it doesnt 
automatically mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality. I need to think about whether a 
reasonable person would expect there to be problems such as Mrs B has experienced in a 
car of this price, age and mileage.
Mrs B didnt acquire a new car  it was seven years old and had travelled around 56,000 
miles. So she needed to expect to see some wear and tear on the car. Im conscious the 
dashboard warning light said that, while there was a fault, the car was safe to drive. This 
suggests it wasnt a significant fault. That said, Im also conscious the cash price of the car 
was around £17,400.
While the fault wasnt significant, it seems to be a complicated fault to rectify and I also need 
to think about the cost of fixing the fault. The manufacturing dealership has said it will cost 
around £2,400 to fix the fault. While I acknowledge its now been around 20 months since 
Mrs B acquired the car, it needs to be remembered this fault first materialised no later than 
two months after the point of supply. Having paid around £17,400 to acquire a car, I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect to incur such a significant repair cost so soon after 
acquisition. Given this, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mrs B. 
Motonovo says Mrs B was advised to not drive the car on 31 July 2019. But its clear the 
fault was present before this date. Ive not seen anything to show she travelled a large 
number of miles in the car since then. And shes said she hasnt used the car since then. Its 
for Motonovo to show the damage is down to Mrs Bs actions and it hasnt provided anything 
to support this.
Putting things right
Motonovo doesnt think it should be held responsible for the delays that have incurred. It 
says it arranged for an independent inspection of the car which didnt highlight any faults. It 
also said it asked Mrs B a number of times to provide a further report to set out there was a 
fault with the car, but Mrs B didnt do so.
I do understand Motonovos comments in this respect. Ive discussed this with Mrs B and 
she explained she was told she would have to take the car to a specialist examiner and was 
told this would cost over £1,500. And I can understand why she was reluctant to incur this 
cost. Further to this, as Motonovo has highlighted, Mrs B was advised to not drive the car. 
So she would have also had to pay to have the car transported to the engineer and back 
again which would have further added to the cost.But I also have to think about what the key reason is why Mrs B hasnt been able to use the 
car. And this is because Motonovo supplied a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. Im also 
conscious the warranty company said the car needed to go to a specialist to have the fault 
diagnosed. So I think Motonovo should have arranged for the car to go to a manufacturing 
dealership at the outset who would have had the requisite equipment to diagnose the actual 
fault with the gearbox. Had it done so, I think the actual issue with the gearbox would have 
been discovered sooner and all the subsequent issues wouldnt have arisen. 
Ultimately, Mrs B hasnt been able to use the car since August 2019, so I think Motonovo 
should refund any payments shes made since then.
Ive also thought whats the fairest way to resolve the issue. Given the length of time thats 
passed, Im conscious further issues may have arisen on the car which could have been 
avoided had Motonovo inspected the car sooner. So I think the fairest way to resolve this 
complaint is to now allow Mrs B to reject the car.
Mrs B has also asked for a number of her expenses to be refunded. I can see shes had to 
arrange to have the car recovered to the manufacturing dealership for inspections. I think 
Motonovo should refund the costs she incurred in doing so. I also think it should refund the 
costs of any diagnosis report she obtained. 
Mrs B has highlighted she had new tyres put on the car at a cost of around £700 shortly 
before the issues arose. Motonovo has queried why she felt she needed to do this as it said 
the MOT didnt say they needed to be replaced. But I am conscious the MOT said the tyres 
were heavily worn. So I dont think it was unreasonable that she chose to replace them. But, 
she hasnt had the benefit of this because she hasnt been able to use the car since then. So 
I think Motonovo should refund this too.
I understand the car is currently incurring storage charges while it is with the manufacturing 
dealership as Mrs B understandably didnt want to incur further expenses in recovering the 
vehicle back to her. I dont think Mrs B would have incurred these expenses had Motonovo 
diagnosed the fault at the start. I also dont think its was unreasonable for Mrs B to not want 
to have to incur further recovery costs to transport the car back to her property. And I think it 
was more cost effective in leaving the car where it was. So I think it should liaise with the 
dealership to arrange to have these charges settled.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I require FirstRand Bank Limited 
(trading as Motonovo) to do the following to put things right:
1. Allow Mrs B to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to her;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay  and remove any adverse marker 
from Mrs Bs credit file;
3. Refund the deposit of £1,679*;
4. Refund the monthly payments she paid since August 2019 when she stopped using the 
car*;
5. Refund the amount she paid for the diagnostic reports and for transporting the car to the 
manufacturing dealership*; and
6. Refund the amount Mrs B paid to replace the tyres*
7. Liaise with the manufacturing dealership to arrange to have the storage charges settled. 
* FirstRand Bank Limited should add 8% simple interest per year on this from when Mrs B 
paid them until she gets them back. If it thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman