DRN-4034704
The complaint
Miss Y has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) irresponsibly 
provided Miss Y with and overdraft facility when she was already heavily in debt. 
What happened
Miss Y was granted an overdraft with a limit of £400. Miss Y complained to Halifax about its 
irresponsible overdraft lending. Halifax upheld Miss Ys complaint and offered to settle it by:
Refunding all fees, charges and interest paid plus 8% towards the overdraft facility 
from 14 November 2019 when the overdraft was granted amounting to £303.97; 
Back date the default on her account if necessary to 14 November 2019; and
Remove the overdraft facility.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and thought that what Halifax had offered is in-line 
with what wed recommend and didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Miss Y disagreed, she is unhappy that she needs to repay the overdraft lending in full and 
the possibility of a default being placed on her credit file if she is unable to do so. She wants 
Halifax to reconsider its offer and not place a default on her credit report and wipe the 
outstanding amount.  Miss Y has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss Y is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business provides a consumer with a credit facility which it should have realised 
was unaffordable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in 
now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the 
lender ought to have realised it was unaffordable. And if those interest and charges were 
paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Miss Y has been left with an outstanding balance on her overdraft, once all 
adjustments have been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by her overdraft. So while Miss Y has been left with a balance and she might be 
unhappy with this, Halifax has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do something 
different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair 
and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss Y says Halifax should do something different here. She says that Halifax shouldnt 
expect her to repay the remaining overdraft balance when she is on a debt management 
plan and not in the financial position to pay it back in full.
Ive thought about what Miss Y has said. And what shes said is a reason for upholding her 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as hers. All the interest, fees and charges Halifax shouldnt have added have 
been removed from what she now needs to pay. So what Miss Y is left with to repay are the 
funds which she used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and 
charges have left her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Miss Y spent the credit, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Miss Y to repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss Ys 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on her overdraft, even after her complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Miss Y is also unhappy that if she doesnt pay back the outstanding debt Halifax will place a 
default on her credit file. But Halifax has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its 
customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. So if 
Miss Y is unable to pay back her overdraft and Halifax defaults her account, it is obliged to 
report this.
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already offered to do to put 
things right for Miss Y is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
persuaded further compensation is warranted, so Im not requiring Halifax to do anything 
more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss Y is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman