DRN-3744364
The complaint
Mrs B complains because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim under her 
travel insurance policy. All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle 
claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs B held a platinum single trip insurance policy, provided by IPA. The policy was bought 
online in October 2021. 
When Mrs B was abroad, she unfortunately became very ill and was admitted to hospital. 
She subsequently made a claim with IPA for her medical costs and other expenses, 
including the cost of arranging a new flight back to the UK. IPA said the claim wasnt covered 
because Mrs B hadnt correctly answered the medical questions it had asked when she 
bought the policy. IPA cancelled Mrs Bs policy and refunded the premiums shed paid.
Unhappy, Mrs B brought her complaint to the attention of our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think IPA had acted unfairly 
by turning down Mrs Bs claim. Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the 
complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA), and Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to apply the principles set 
out in CIDRA to Mrs Bs claim. CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care 
required is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For the 
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer must show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
IPA thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a representation when she 
answered no to the following question:
Within the last 2 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any 
medical condition (medical or psychological disease, sickness, condition, illness or 
injury) that has required prescribed medication (including repeat prescriptions) or 
treatment including surgery, tests or investigations?
IPA says Mrs B should have answered yes because her medical records show she was 
taking fluoxetine on a repeat prescription. 
Ive considered the letter from Mrs Bs GP dated 23 December 2021 which says, Since 2015 
 fluoxetine is now prescribed for the sole indication of menopausal hot flushes. Ive also 
taken into account Mrs Bs comments that the menopause is not a medical condition. But Im 
satisfied that the question asked by IPA  which specifically mentioned repeat prescriptions 
 was clear in prompting a reasonable consumer that IPA would want to know about 
medication taken for symptoms of the menopause. 
This means I dont think Mrs B took reasonable care in answering the question IPA asked 
and, therefore, she made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So, IPA is entitled to 
rely on the relevant remedy set out in the legislation  regardless of whether or not Mrs Bs 
claim while abroad related to her undeclared medication or to the symptoms for which shed 
been prescribed that medication. 
Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, that if Mrs B had answered yes to the above 
question, IPA wouldnt have provided her with this policy at all. 
IPA has declined the claim, treated Mrs Bs misrepresentation as careless and cancelled her 
policy, refunding the premiums to her. I dont think this is unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B. I know she has incurred significant costs, but I wont be 
directing IPA to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman