DRN-3353777
The complaint
Ms R complains that 118 118 Money Limited (118 118 Money) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms R has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company
(CMC). But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having
been with, and from, Ms R himself.
Ms R was given 2 loans by 118 118 Money. She borrowed £1000 in August 2015 and 
agreed to repay this over 24 months. She repaid the first loan in July 2017. She took out a 
second loan with 118 118 Money in September 2017. This was again for £1000 over 24 
months. Ms R repaid this second loan after 2 months. 
Ms Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. After reviewing all of the 
documentation sent by both parties, she felt 118 118 Money had made proportionate checks 
when it agreed to both loans. She then concluded that she wasnt able to safely conclude it 
made unfair lending decisions on either occasion. This is because she says she didnt have 
enough information such as bank statements to draw that sort of conclusion. So, she didnt 
uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Ms R didnt agree with our investigator. She said she did not have bank statements and was 
no longer with the bank that she held an account with at that time. She says she had been 
left financially impaired and is struggling from taking these loans. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all these things in mind, and Ive thought carefully about the information 118 118 
Money relied on when it decided to lend to Ms R.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Ms R before it agreed to the first loan. It 
asked Ms R about her income and expenditure. It carried out a credit check and used this to 
work out her credit commitments. It would have also seen how she managed her credit up to 
that point. Those checks suggested Ms R had enough disposable income each month to 
afford the loan repayments. 
Ms R was entering into a significant commitment with 118 118 Money. She was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that 118 118 Money 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms Rs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did were 
sufficient to achieve that aim. I think 118 118 Moneys checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what 118 118 Money gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made 
a fair lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that 118 118 Money conducted. The search showed that 
Ms R had 5 active accounts and around £500 in unsecured debt. She had a short-term loan, 
a credit card, her current account, a telecoms account and a second telecoms account that 
she had defaulted on only a couple of months previously. I think 118 118 Money ought to 
have held some concerns about this. 
That said, the rest of the credit Ms R had taken out seemed to be very well managed. She 
was not in arrears with any of her other accounts and I couldnt see any other signs that she 
was having problems managing her finances. The overall amount of unsecured debt she had 
taken out was relatively low too. There was nothing within the information that 118 118 
Money had gathered that would contradict Ms Rs declarations or the other information that it 
had gathered. It said Ms R would have had disposable income that would have meant the 
relatively small loan repayment of £77 would have been comfortably affordable for her. So 
with this in mind and from what I have already concluded I dont think there were any 
reasons why 118 118 Money would need to undertake further enquiries here or that there 
were grounds for it to decline the application from the start. 
Ms R then came back and asked 118 118 Money for a second loan in September 2017. She 
had made all of the monthly repayments on the first loan and asked for the same amount, 
£1000 and over the same loan term of 24 months.
118 118 Money carried out the same checks as it did for the first loan, and I think these were 
proportionate as well. But again, I think it would need to react to what these checks showed. I have looked at the credit search 118 118 Money carried out for loan 2, some 2 years after it 
conducted a search for the first loan. This search showed that Ms R had a bit more 
unsecured debt, this being around £1992. She had 4 credit cards and a short-term loan 
along with her current account. Again, her credit would appear very well managed with no 
missed payments, or any signs that her finances were under pressure. I can also see that 
she repaid the amount owed on the defaulted telecoms account and this was now settled.
 
The overall proportion of Ms Rs wages that she would need to put to credit repayment, had 
crept up slightly. But I think on balance, that Ms R seemed to be able to afford this and keep 
to all that she was committed to. So, I dont think there was anything that ought to have 
alerted 118 118 Money into doing anything further here. And the loan seemed affordable for 
her according to its assessment, based on its proportionate checks. So, it follows that I dont 
think it did anything wrong when it agreed to loan 2.
I acknowledge this isnt the outcome Ms R was hoping for and that she has told our service 
that she has since struggled with her finances. But I think that the checks 118 118 Money 
performed were proportionate and didnt suggest that Ms R was facing any problems in 
managing her finances at the time she applied for the loans. I think 118 118 Money was 
entitled to rely on what Ms R said about her finances. And that information along with what it 
gathered suggested that she would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on both 
loans. So, I dont think 118 118 Money did anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman