DRN-2710158
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled their claim 
under their property insurance policy. They had vulnerable circumstances and experienced 
difficulties with the alternative accommodation arrangements.  
What happened
Part of Mr and Mrs Rs home had been damaged by a fire. For the damage to be rectified, 
they were required to move out of their home for a period. They made a claim on their 
property insurance to esure, which included provisions for them to move to alternative 
accommodation.
As appropriate alternative accommodation couldnt be agreed, Mr R and his family were 
moved to a hotel whilst suitable accommodation could be sourced and agreed. However, Mr 
R and esure couldnt agree on what was suitable. 
Mr R said that esure did not make enough effort to source alternative accommodation and 
he made all the efforts to find a suitable property. esure said Whilst the insured was in a 
hotel under alternative accommodation works began on the property, the costs of the hotel 
were significant, and our suppliers had attempted to source other properties for the insured. 
The insured has said that he was left himself to source a property, however I believe this 
would have been due to strict unrealistic expectations on his part. esure said the reasons 
Mr R gave for properties not suiting his needs included: no garage, no garden for the 
grandchildren to play in and on a busy road.
Mr R wanted to stay in the hotel for the duration of the works to his home, but esure said the 
high cost of the hotel meant it was not reasonable alternative accommodation. So, esure 
informed Mr R that his family would have to move out of the hotel and gave him two weeks 
notice. It said as the parties couldnt agree on suitable alternative accommodation that it had 
decided to make a cash settlement, and this would allow Mr R to source his own temporary 
accommodation for the period until the damage on his home had been rectified.
Mr R explained to our service that he didnt think esure had properly considered their 
vulnerable circumstances. He said he was offered properties that did not meet their 
requirements and he needed something located closer to his home and their support 
network. He told us that he had actively been looking for properties during the entire period 
he was out of his home.
Mr R also told our service that he was unhappy at the constant threat and bullying he felt 
esure were applying to get them out of the hotel. 
The payment was made to Mr and Mrs R by cheque, but it wasnt received by the time the 
family had to leave the hotel. Mr R said this was because it had been sent to their permanent 
address and it wasnt re-directed to him at the hotel. Mr R said that this meant he left the 
hotel with limited funds, so when he left the hotel he had to move back into his home whilst 
works were ongoing and his wife who had medical needs had to move in with his daughter. 
He said, this was very inconvenient for him and was not appropriate given their vulnerable 
circumstances, hence why he raised the complaint. 
When Mr R contacted esure, they issued a new cheque to him, but this wasnt until the day 
he had to leave the hotel. Mr R said he thinks esure could have paid this amount sooner via 
a bank transfer instead of sending a cheque to an address he wasn't residing in. esure said 
Mr R had refused to give his bank details, which meant they had to issue a cheque.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said esure caused a delay to Mr and Mrs R 
receiving their settlement, which meant they were left in the position of not having funds to 
source their own new temporary accommodation. He said that was unfair and asked esure 
to pay Mr and Mrs R a further £650 for the distress and inconvenience this delay caused.  
esure have rejected our investigators view so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 15 February 2021. I said:
I think the circumstances of this complaint are crucial as Mrs R had medical needs. I need 
to make a judgement as to the level of vulnerability this may have placed on the family and 
how it may have impacted their needs. 
The case file suggests Mrs Rs medical condition was greater than esure allowed for. Mr R 
has told our service of his wifes medical condition and I think her circumstances would have 
placed a significant vulnerability on the family. Mrs R was prescribed a variety of drugs to 
treat her health concerns. I have checked what conditions these medications are normally 
prescribed for and this evidence supports what Mr R has told us. I think it would be 
reasonable to expect esure to have asked the correct questions at the start of the claims 
process to assess vulnerability thoroughly and then to have made appropriate and 
reasonable adjustments as it handled their claim.
During the period of the complaint, Mr and Mrs Rs daughter felt the need to write into esure 
to raise her concerns about how the case was impacting her parents health and wellbeing 
and she highlighted Mrs R did have a medical condition. esure made a physical inspection of 
their home and noted that there didnt seem to be specific aids throughout the property for 
any physical disability. In my opinion, esure did not do enough to try and understand what 
Mrs Rs medical condition was and how it may impact on their familys needs. Their daughter 
had escalated there was an issue, presumably as she had seen something that worried her. 
I think there are times during this complaint esure could have showed more understanding 
and made some adjustments to their process to show more care to Mr and Mrs R. I dont 
think this was fair for them and this goes to the heart of how I have considered this 
complaint.
This would have been a stressful time for them. It is this time when they needed most help 
from their insurers. Its my opinion that the tailored support they required was missing and 
this is what I think led to a breakdown of communications between the parties involved.
There are two strands to this complaint, so for simplicity I have separated them out in my 
decision below. 
Alternative accommodation
The terms of Mr and Mrs Rs policy says that it will pay the reasonable cost of alternative 
accommodation. esure provided them with a cash settlement of £4,000 to house Mr and Mrs R for the remaining period after the hotel. I think this represents a fair and reasonable 
payment when considering the rental costs of properties in the area and for the period.
 
Mr R complained that esure didnt do enough to help him secure a rental property. The terms 
of the policy said it must only provide the reasonable costs of the accommodation. So, I think 
it is fair to say it has fulfilled the terms of its policy. 
However, I dont think they have been reasonable in their actions, when you consider that 
the family was vulnerable.
In a letter to Mr and Mrs Rs daughter, esure had suggested that Mr and Mrs R had quite 
specific needs for their alternative accommodation and unrealistic expectations. It said that 
sourcing pet friendly accommodation can prove challenging, and your parents did have 
other requirements such as a property with a garage and away from busy roads. 
esure needed to provide alternative accommodation to a similar standard to that of the 
insured home. Mr and Mrs Rs insured home was located off a main street, it had a garage, it 
was close to their doctors and their pet lived at the house. Therefore, when I look at the 
requirements that have been highlighted, I dont think their demands were unreasonable. 
They were looking for a similar house or a reasonable alternative to the one they had 
insured. As esure were unable to offer a property that met Mr and Mrs Rs needs it decided 
to pay a cash settlement in line with their policy and expected them to source their own 
property.
I dont think this was fair as it doesnt appear that there were suitable houses available for a 
short-term rent. Mr and Mrs R showed they were willing to accept the right property. They 
agreed to one property before they went into the hotel, but unfortunately the landlord chose 
to rent to another tenant. In addition, they showed flexibility in putting their pet in kennels.
Mr and Mrs R were vulnerable and esure had admitted it was challenging to source such 
accommodation. Its recorded in esures own claim notes that their supplier sourcing the 
accommodation are not really doing a lot. In these circumstances, I dont think it was fair 
that they made a cash settlement and expected a vulnerable family to overcome that 
challenge on their own. I think esure could have done more to help the family at a time when 
they needed help the most.
Payment / lack of funds
I have looked at the different accounts given for the difficulties in Mr and Mrs R receiving 
their cash settlement. They said this led to them leaving the hotel with limited funds, which 
they say resulted in Mrs R staying at her daughters house, sleeping on a sofa and Mr R 
having to return to his home while it was still been rectified following the damage.
We know a cheque was sent to their home whilst they were staying at the hotel. I dont know 
whether it would have been possible for Mr R to have gone to his home and picked this up or 
whether that would have been unreasonably inconvenient. esure said they sent a cheque as 
Mr R wouldnt provide his bank details, although at a point later Mr R said he had offered 
that the payment could have been made by Chaps, which would have needed his bank 
details. I dont think anyone has done anything materially wrong here, I think the issue is 
more likely to have been caused by a breakdown in communications caused by previous 
problems on the claim.
However, I dont think that Mr and Mrs R were given enough notice by esure to leave the 
hotel. Assuming Mr and Mrs R had received a cash payment at the start of the period. Given that esure (as experts) had struggled to find something appropriate, I dont think it was fair to 
then expect Mr and Mrs R to then find something in such a short period.
This issue was magnified as esure didnt send the first cheque until around the time Mr and 
Mrs R had been given notice to leave the hotel. So, knowing that the cheque had to be 
posted, collected from the home, then taken to a bank, then cashed it would have been 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs R would have had cash funds until just before they left the hotel. So, 
even if Mr and Mrs R did find a property during the two weeks notice period, they would not 
have had the cash from the settlement to put down a deposit. 
esure knew Mr and Mrs R did not receive the initial cheque, so it knew they had limited funds 
when they were evicted from the hotel. Knowing this and considering their vulnerable 
situation, I think was it wrong that esure asked Mr and Mrs R to leave the hotel without 
checking that they had suitable alternative arrangements in place. Mr and Mrs R did not 
receive cleared funds until three weeks after leaving the hotel. I think esure have let down 
this vulnerable family in this situation, so I intend to uphold the complaint. I think it is likely Mr 
and Mrs R would have been impacted more by what has happened because of their 
vulnerable circumstances and therefore I think the impact to them has been substantial. I 
think the complaint hasnt been handled well and these circumstances meant Mr and Mrs R 
were kept apart, making it more difficult for them to see each other. This would have 
generated the need to travel more and incur additional costs. I dont think the temporary 
arrangements for Mr and Mrs R were satisfactory. Mr R had to stay in his house while the 
rectification works were ongoing and Mrs R who had a medical condition had the discomfort 
of sleeping on a sofa. This would have had a knock-on impact to their daughters domestic 
situation. Therefore, I intend to require esure to pay £1,000 to Mr and Mrs R for the trouble 
and upset caused by it not sufficiently supporting them during this claim and for the 
inconvenience of dealing with the issues it has caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs R accepted my findings and didnt have anything new to add.
Esure didnt reply to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Services Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R £1,000 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Pete AverillOmbudsman