DRN-4351839
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) delayed answering queries 
about his pension plan whilst the transfer value was falling causing him losses. He would like 
compensation and an explanation as to why the value fell considering market conditions 
over the period.
Mr S is represented in his complaint by his financial adviser.
What happened
Mr Ss plan with Aviva was taken out in 1985. Linked to the with profits fund, it provided for a 
guaranteed level of pension on retirement at age 70, or earlier, with a reduced guarantee. 
His financial adviser, St James Place (SJP), requested information about the plan over a 
number of years. It was noted that the quoted transfer value had fallen from around 
£151,000 in 2017 to £131,000 in April 2021. Mr S was considering transferring the plan and 
with the value continuing to fall he complained to Aviva in June 2021. SJP raised further 
complaint points on 16 June 2021. SJP said Mr S had intended to retire that month, at age 
65. But as Aviva hadnt answered queries, it hadnt been able to advise him properly. SJP 
said the transfer value had fallen to £125,005 on 16 June 2021, without justification.
Aviva said it had made an error in calculating the values quoted between 2016 and 2019, 
which were estimates and werent guaranteed. It said the transfer value was based on the 
pension being given up, taking current annuity rates and various other factors into account. It 
apologised and sent Mr S a cheque for £200 for the inconvenience caused. It said the 16 
June 2021 value was also an estimate but an accurate transfer value of £124,835.90 had 
now been calculated. A transfer application was made and £122,439.37 was transferred to 
SJP on 1 September 2021.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said it was unfortunate errors had been made in the past. But there was no 
evidence that Mr S had wanted to transfer the plan from Aviva previously. Had he, it would 
have carried out a correct calculation. He said whilst the basis of transfer value calculations 
was commercially sensitive, each of the annual statements sent between 2016 and 2019 
had quoted the same annual pension of around £8,500 at age 70. Along with a transfer 
value and a statement that this wasnt guaranteed.
Our investigator said Aviva had written to Mr S in October 2021 after the transfer had been 
made, referring to a timeline and loss assessment it wanted to undertake. But it appeared 
this was outstanding, and hed asked Aviva to look into it. He said as Aviva had clearly 
stated transfer values werent guaranteed and had explained why these had reduced, there 
hadnt been any detriment to Mr S. He said the £200 already paid in compensation was fair, 
so he wouldnt ask Aviva to do anything further. 
Mr S said our investigator had misunderstood the complaint, which wasnt just about the 
decline in transfer values, but the failure to respond to queries over a period of months 
between March and August 2021. Which had prevented him from transferring, resulting in 
losses as the value continued to fall, by around £8,000. 
Our investigator said Aviva had written to SJP several times between December 2020 and 
April 2021 answering queries about the plan and providing valuations and explanations. The 
letters stated that transfer values werent guaranteed and could fall as well as rise. He said 
Aviva had responded in an adequate manner. Our investigator said as the transfer value 
required calculation, he thought it had been processed in a reasonable timeframe. He said 
Avivas approach was consistent and Mr S hadnt been disadvantaged.
Our investigator said Aviva hadnt explained why it wanted to carry out a loss assessment, 
but it had asked its third-party administrator to undertake this. Who had written to SJP three 
times between 9 March 2022 and 9 February 2023 asking for the information it needed for 
these calculations, but without response. But the information had now been provided and 
these calculations were in hand.
SJP said the only reason the transfer had taken so long was because of the delays in Aviva 
responding to queries asking for specific explanations. It said Aviva hadnt explained the 
valuations or what final bonus had been paid on the plan. Mr S said because of the errors 
made by Aviva hed never been in a position to make an informed decision about his plan. 
He said he and his adviser had regularly discussed the plan at review meetings and had only 
decided to retain it as the performance seemed to be so good due to the inflated values 
being quoted from 2017. And hed missed out on investment opportunities by not transferring 
sooner.   
  
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 23 August 2023; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint in part. 
There are two main complaints here. Ive set out below why I dont think Mr S has been 
disadvantaged by any initial error in the calculation of transfer values, but why I do think 
there was some avoidable delay in Aviva processing the transfer, as it accepts. It is now 
proposing to pay Mr S compensation for this which it says will put him back in the position he 
should have been in. 
The valuations
The transfer value provided by Aviva was based on a conversion calculation to establish the 
cost of providing the guaranteed pension benefit offered by the plan at the relevant age. The 
factors considered include prevailing annuity rates. 
Depending on the conversion factor used by individual pension providers the transfer value 
offered on this type of plan can range from good to poor value when compared to prevailing 
annuity rates. Mr S and SJP have said the reduction in transfer value wasnt reasonable as 
annuity rates werent rising (which could be expected to reduce the cash value) during the 
period. Ill consider this below. Mr S has also queried Avivas with profit bonus rates during the period. Some of the historic 
valuations showed the split between the guaranteed bonuses already added to the plan and 
final (or terminal) bonus which wasnt guaranteed. As final bonuses werent guaranteed any 
adjustments to the transfer value calculated are likely to be reflected in the final bonus 
shown, as was the case here. It was generally the case that with profit bonus rates were 
either frozen or reduced through 2020, given the impact the Covid pandemic had on 
investment markets. Whilst this isnt directly relevant to Mr Ss plan, I havent seen anything 
that indicates he was singled out in this regard, which would clearly be unfair.
Mr S also says the overstated prior valuations disadvantaged him as they convinced him to 
keep the plan instead of transferring it. Its unfortunate a mistake was made and not 
corrected for some time, so Ive considered the impact on Mr S of this error. 
Whilst Aviva hasnt provided specific details of the error its clear from the many valuations 
provided that transfer values werent guaranteed. If a transfer request had been made, a 
fully calculated transfer value would have been provided. From mid-2017 annuity rates 
generally reduced. Ignoring any other factors this could be expected to increase the transfer 
value. From February 2021 annuity rates generally rose, which would be expected to reduce 
the transfer value. So, there was always the risk that the transfer values quoted, could fall. 
There is some evidence that the transfer process was started in July 2018 by SJP. As Aviva 
wrote to it asking for confirmation that Mr S was being provided with regulated financial 
advice. It isnt clear why the transfer didnt proceed then. 
SJP has provided some emails following reviews with Mr S in July 2018 which say:
For now it is difficult to compare scheme benefits on a like for like basis due to the 
guaranteed annuity rates contained at retirement age and so I will recommend that 
you leave the funds invested with AVIVA for now.
Once (Mr S) decides to retire I will be able to compile a direct comparison of benefits 
and then make a recommendation as to whether it is in your best interests to 
consolidate your various retirement funds.
I havent seen any evidence of how any appraisal was carried out when it was concluded the 
investment was doing well and should be retained with Aviva as Mr s has said. But a high 
transfer value relative to prevailing annuity rates would generally indicate transfer was 
beneficial. 
By 2021, Aviva had corrected the error in its calculations and Mr Ss transfer was completed 
on 1 September 2021, shortly after his 65th birthday, with £122,439.37 transferred to SJP. By 
then the guaranteed pension from the plan would likely to higher than the £5,912.93 
previously advised by Aviva at age 65, but only marginally so. And in September 2021 a 
comparable annuity rate was around 5.1% for a 65 year old, implying a cost of buying that 
guaranteed pension of around £116,000. This is less than the transfer value Aviva paid, 
suggesting it wasnt unreasonable given the terms and conditions of the plan.
Had a transfer been requested earlier, Aviva might have advised the actual transfer value 
was somewhat lower than had been indicated. Possibly too low to make the transfer appear 
good value. In which case Mr S presumably wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer 
anyway. Consequently, I dont think the valuation information provided to Mr S from 2017 
misled him about the benefit or otherwise of retaining the plan or transferring it. 
DelaysIve considered whether Aviva delayed the transfer by failing to respond to queries in a 
timely fashion. I can see that SJP made many enquiries over a period of several years, often 
requesting the same information as previously provided along with updated transfer values. 
This pattern seemed to repeat itself in the months before the actual transfer.
SJP raised queries about the plan and Aviva confirmed details on 2 December 2020. SJP 
requested a quotation of benefits if Mr S was to retire at age 65 (June 2021) on 3 March 
2021. The next day SJP asked for a breakdown of funds and for an explanation about under 
performance, details about charges and information on the guaranteed pension. Aviva 
issued the requested retirement quotations and various application paperwork for the 
different options on 7 March 2021. It then sent SJP a copy of the policy conditions, details of 
funds and charges and of the guaranteed pension applying on 16 March 2021, explaining, 
as it had previously, that the plan was a deferred annuity contract.
On 18 March 2021 Aviva confirmed projections couldnt be provided within six months of 
retirement. SJP then chased up the information requested, and Aviva emailed the letter of 16 
March 2021 and provided further information about performance, the plan and conditions 
applying on the 8 and 9 April 2021. It provided the estimated retirement fund at age 65 on 23 
April 2021. SJP asked more questions on 10 May 2021, including the start date of the plan 
and whether the guaranteed pension included tax free cash. Presumably it didnt have the 
information it felt it required to advise Mr S about transferring before then. 
Aviva sent further information on 16 June 2021, by which time Mr S had already complained 
about the reducing transfer values. SJP then complained about delays in responding to its 
queries. Aviva wrote on 16 July 2021 confirming again that the plan had no fund value and 
provided for a pension to be paid. And that the transfer value would be based on the pension 
value based on annuity rates in force at the time. And that; 
It was up to the policy holder and his or her adviser to decide whether it is better to 
take the transfer value or to retain the benefit under the policy.
It continued that annuity rates were kept under constant review and that:
Annuity rates are presently cheaper than they were a few weeks ago and this means 
that the current transfer value is lower than previously quoted.
SJP then requested a transfer on 27 July 2021 but sent incorrect application forms. Aviva 
sent the correct forms to SJP on 30 July 2021. These were returned on 12 August 2021 and 
Aviva contacted Mr S to request proof of his national insurance number which he provided 
on 24 August 2021 and the transfer was completed on 31 August 2021.
Ive looked at the information Aviva sent in response to the queries raised by SJP during 
2021. Much of this had been provided earlier and I think the further explanations given were 
clear. SJP was querying the basis of the valuation provided and raising queries about 
investment performance and bonuses, which werent directly relevant to the transfer figure 
provided. And the queries raised werent something Id expect Aviva to be able to 
immediately respond to. And as noted above the transfer value doesnt appear to be 
obviously unfair given the benefits it was based on. 
However, Aviva accepts there were delays that resulted in both a fall in the transfer value 
and a delay in the re-investment with SJP being made. I asked Aviva about this. It said there 
were two occasions when it hadnt met its internal ten working day target to respond to 
queries raised by SJP. But for these delays it says the valuation date should have been 21 
July 2021 rather than 13 August 2021. With it making payment to SJP on 2 August 2021 
rather than 31 August 2021. Aviva says the value on 21 July 2021 was £125,005.48 rather than the £122,439.37 actually 
transferred, a difference of £2,566.11. It says the delay in re-investment with SJP caused a 
further loss. With the total loss being £4,650.92, based on the details provided by SJP. Aviva 
has proposed to make payment directly to Mr S subject to a notional tax deduction of 15%, 
so the net payment would be £3,953.32. This assumes he is a basic rate taxpayer. Our 
service hasnt checked these calculations, but Ive asked that Mr S is provided with a copy of 
them for his consideration. 
So, Aviva did cause some delay and in general terms I think its offer here is fair. But I think 
interest should be added to the compensation calculated as Mr S has been denied the use 
of the funds for many months. Not all of that delay was Avivas responsibility, so Ive set out 
how I think things should be put right below.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding compensation is to put Mr S back into the position he would have been 
in as closely as possible but for the errors made.
Aviva should calculate the actual transfer value on 21 July 2021 and any loss caused 
by the delayed re-investment of the transfer. Aviva says based on when SJP 
invested the funds sent this would have been 6 August 2021. If Mr S or SJP dispute 
this is a reasonable date they should provide appropriate evidence. 
Aviva has already undertaken the calculations outlined which indicate a total loss of 
£4,650.92. It proposes to pay Mr S £3,953.32 after a notional allowance for tax.
When benefits are paid from a pension plan they provide a taxable income. So, 
adjusting the compensation to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid ensures the compensation is a fair amount. It isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his retirement age. If Mr S is a basic rate taxpayer, the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, as he would have been able to take a tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in 
an overall reduction of 15% as proposed by Aviva.
If Mr S isnt a basic rate taxpayer, he will need to confirm this so the assumption can 
be adjusted so he receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to 
amend this assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
I also think its fair that interest should be added to the compensation due. Aviva first 
requested information from SJP to complete its calculations on 9 March 2022, so 
around six months after it should have paid the correct transfer value to SJP. The 
information Aviva needed was sent on 17 May 2023, but it didnt complete its 
calculations until 7 July 2023, so around another three months delay to give around 
nine months in total. 
So, the delays in addressing the issue of compensation that are Avivas responsibility 
run from 2 August 2021 to 9 March 2022, then from 17 May 2023 until the date of 
settlement. Aviva should add interest to the notional compensation amount at 8% per 
year simple from these dates.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Aviva should give Mr S 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Aviva should provide Mr S with a simple calculation of how it arrived at its figures.
  
I think Mr S has been inconvenienced by what has happened but that the £200 
gesture of goodwill payment already made is fair in the circumstances.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further evidence or points they wanted me 
to consider. 
Response to provisional decision
Mr S said he accepted my decision. But said that he wasnt a taxpayer in the current tax year 
and asked whether the 15% notional deduction to the compensation could be reclaimed.
Aviva disagreed with my decision. It said adding interest to the compensation wasnt fair as 
its calculations already considered the whole period up until 23 July 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part.
Aviva did cause a delay, so its fair that Mr S be put back into the position he should have 
been in. Ive reconsidered Avivas calculations and I agree that as they are up to date, they 
do fairly provide redress for the delays it caused and put Mr S back into the position he 
should have been. So, it isnt necessary for them to add interest to the calculated redress, 
unless there is an unreasonable delay in making payment to him.
In terms of the notional allowance for tax I referred to, this is to avoid Mr S being paid too 
much compensation. As the allowance is notional there isnt anything he can claim back 
from HMRC. Notional deductions follow a long-established legal precedent dating back to 
1956 with a Court case that was decided by the Law Lords. Called the Gourley Principle, in 
simple terms, it means that tax should be taken into account when determining fair 
compensation. 
 
So, what Im considering here is Mr Ss likely marginal rate of tax when hes fully retired (hes 
now 67) and drawing out the pension as income. His income will include State Pension 
which is taxable. I asked Mr S about his current income, and he confirmed he receives the 
State Pension, and this is currently just under the personal tax allowance. So, only a 
relatively small amount of income could be drawn from his pension before he would be 
subject to income tax. 
Mr S might be able to manage his finances and use capital or tax fee income sources such 
as ISAs, but I think its reasonable to conclude he would most likely be subject to basic rate 
tax on the income from his pension, when he does draw this. Therefore, I think it is fair that a 
15% notional deduction for tax be allowed for, which takes account that 25% of Mr Ss 
pension could be paid as a tax-free cash sum. The alternative would be for Aviva to make the payment directly to Mr S SJP plan, where no 
deduction would be made. This assumes that level of contribution could be paid under tax 
rules, which may not be possible. But assuming it was possible the amount he would receive 
as compensation would be the same if he then took his pension benefits and paid income 
tax on them. So, it is fair compensation and does put him back into the position he should 
have been in. 
Putting things right
Aviva has already undertaken the calculations outlined which indicate a total loss of 
£4,650.92. It proposes to pay Mr S £3,953.32 after a notional allowance for tax.
When benefits are paid from a pension plan, they provide a taxable income. So, adjusting 
the compensation to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid 
ensures the compensation is a fair amount. It isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer when he takes the benefits, so the reduction would 
equal 20%. However, as he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%, as 
proposed by Aviva.
I think the £200 Aviva has already paid Mr S is fair compensation for the inconvenience he 
has suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay the compensation it has already calculated 
to Mr S which I consider to be fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give a certificate showing this if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman