DRN-3850420
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Janus Henderson Fund Management UK Limited trading as Janus 
Henderson Investors (JHI) gave him unsuitable advice to invest in an ISA share account.
The complaint is brought on Mr Ys behalf by a claims management company.
This complaint is about advice given by an advisor working for a business which was 
acquired by JHI and it has taken responsibility for dealing with the complaint. So, to keep 
things simpler, in my decision I will refer to the business as JHI.
What happened
In 1999, JHI recommended Mr Y invest £7,000 in an ISA share account, split equally 
between two funds invested in UK shares and European share markets. This investment 
was surrendered for around £6,266 in 2005. 
Mr Y says the investment was not suitable for him because it wasnt the right time for him to 
increase his risk exposure by further investment when he was retired from work and also 
that the investment recommended was too risky for him given his risk approach. He had 
previously been a cautious investor prepared to accept only a small element of risk but JHI 
rated him as willing to take a higher level of risk.
JHI initially said it couldnt investigate the 1999 sale because Mr Y had left it too late to 
complain. It did however also say that the recommendation had matched Mr Ys risk profile 
and investment objectives and, as hed had sufficient emergency savings, the 1999 sale was 
suitable based on his circumstances at the time.
JHI subsequently consented to our investigator dealing with the complaint. After reviewing 
everything, our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She 
didnt think there was enough evidence to say the investment had been mis-sold.
Mr Y didnt agree. In brief summary, he mainly said that:
his previous investments didnt suggest he was a risk taker
hed been assessed (by the predecessor business JHI acquired) as a cautious 
investor in 1993 when he was still working. Hed permanently left the job market in 
1999, so there was no reason why his attitude to risk should have increased to allow 
him to be sold investments which were 100% invested in equities  with 50% being 
held overseas.
Equities tend towards volatility and non-UK equities have the added volatility of 
currency fluctuations. Even European shares would not have been considered lower 
risk in 1999 ahead of the creation of the Euro currency. 
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I have summarised the main issues in my own words, sometimes in less detail than 
Mr Y, and I wont necessarily comment on everything Mr Y has mentioned, thats because 
Ive concentrated on what seem to me to be the core issues. This reflects the fact that we 
provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts. I will deal 
with all the key issues that affect the outcome of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, JHI has said it consents to 
us looking at this complaint. So I've proceeded to consider everything that has been said 
about the merits of this complaint. 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
The point of sale paperwork records that Mr Y wished to invest a lump sum for capital 
growth. It seems that in discussion with the advisor, he said he was prepared to take some 
risk by investing at least £7,000 in a stock-market based fund. Tax efficiency was mentioned 
and he was happy to invest for a minimum of five years.
In response to the question: What level of risk are you prepared to accept for your 
investments? the fact find carried out with the advisor shows that Mr Y said he would 
accept moderate risk  growth and security are equal concerns.
Following the ISA purchase, Mr Y still appears to have had enough money in readily 
accessible accounts to meet his present and future needs. Although he was retired, he had 
monthly pension income of £800 and around £200 disposable income left each month. He 
owned his own home free from mortgage and had no dependents. He had existing savings 
of around £25,000 in bank and building society accounts as well as £51,000 in a PEP (a 
form of tax efficient equity based investment) and a further £38,000 in investment bonds.
This paints a picture of someone living comfortably within his means. Looked at overall, 
I cant conclude that Mr Ys circumstances meant it wasnt the right time for him to be 
exposed to further investment risk. I find that Mr Y had enough disposable income and 
ample savings still left to give him capacity to absorb investment loss without this 
impacting significantly on his day to day spending or future needs. So I am satisfied that 
Mr Y was in a strong enough financial situation to be able to invest a further £7,000 out of 
his cash reserves.
I note Mr Ys concerns with the discrepancy between the investment risks presented by the 
recommended funds and his view that he should have been identified as a more cautious 
investor  making the recommended investment too risky for his risk approach.
It isnt disputed that Mr Y was willing to take some risk with his money. Ive approached this 
complaint on the basis that he needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with 
the recommended investment suited his attitude to risk. 
There is limited evidence to show how JHI established Mr Ys risk approach. The fact find 
records, under Attitude to Investment, five options ranging from the most risky option will 
accept high risk for high return  growth is the first concern to not prepared to accept any 
risk  security is first concern as the least risky option.The advisor has ticked the middle option showing that Mr Y was as much concerned with 
growth as with security. So Im satisfied that risk would have been discussed. Theres 
nothing to show that Mr Y raised objection to the way his risk approach was categorised at 
the time, which Id have expected him to have done before he signed the record of the 
financial review if he disagreed with the advisors assessment of his attitude to risk.
Looked at overall, I am persuaded that Mr Y was not exposed to more risk than he wanted to 
take. At least half his £7,000 investment was invested in UK equities and he had some 
exposure to investment in European companies. This investment would have exposed Mr Y 
to some risk. But hed been an investor for at least six years and he likely wouldve had 
some experience of investment risk and, at the very least, appreciated that potential for 
investment gain is commensurate with risk. 
Attention was also drawn to investment risk in the point of sale paperwork  the applications 
that Mr Y had to complete clearly stated that figures shown for projected values were 
examples only. 
I think that Mr Y understood and accepted the risk of the investment that JHI advised him 
to invest in. The funds provided potential for the capital growth he was looking for with 
the tax efficiency he wanted. He could also take income if he decided he wanted to in 
future  or encash the investment without penalty. Mr Ys circumstances and financial 
situation meant he was likely looking at this investment contributing to his financial needs 
over the long term so I think he would have expected to keep this investment running for 
at least five years or longer, which matched the product recommendation (and is what 
happened). 
The £3,500 invested in overseas equity investment was potentially at more risk than 
money tied up in some of Mr Ys other investments, but this represented less than 4% of 
his total capital invested. I dont find it was unsuitable to expose this sum to a higher level 
of risk as it could have helped him achieve his investment goals. Given the spread of 
investments within the ISA, I think it's fair to say the diversity of individual funds mitigated 
investment risk whilst offering Mr Y the chance to grow his money as he hoped to do 
without being over-exposed to more investment risk than he was comfortable taking. 
Overall, I am satisfied that the recommendation met Mr Ys identified needs and investment 
objectives and was suitable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman