DRN-2095803
The complaint
Mr A complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SLAL) didnt pay him the maturity 
value of his endowment policy.
What happened
Mr A took out an endowment policy for a term of 25 years that started in January 1978 and 
matured in February 2003. SLACs has said that it paid out £40,450 but Mr A has said this 
money wasnt received by him.
SLAC have provided some information about the bank account the proceeds of the policy 
were paid into  the name of the bank, the sort code and the account number. It says it 
doesnt have further information due to the time since the policy matured.
It didnt uphold Mr As complaint and said that it didnt consider it appropriate to pay him the 
proceeds of the plan as he wanted. It said it was unable to say whether a fraud was 
committed given the limited documentation available, but that it paid the maturity value in 
line with the instruction it had and there was nothing to suggest the payment wasnt 
received.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and also didnt think SLAL had done 
anything wrong. She said that Mr As address details hadnt been updated and SLAL paid 
the proceeds to the account as detailed by Mr A. She said SLAL had followed the correct 
procedure when releasing the money.
Mr A pointed out that the account details the investigator referred to were those that SLAL 
said it had paid the proceeds into, not the account the payments for the plan were originally 
paid from - which was a joint account with his previous wife that was closed in 2001. 
He also questioned why the investigator hadnt queried with SLAL why it hadnt contacted 
his accountants. The investigator responded to this and said we wouldnt comment on 
SLALs internal procedures but also said the accountants had confirmed they had no paper 
files for Mr A but confirmed they did act for him in the early 2000s based on documents he 
had provided to them, and assumed if they were his agent they would be contacted.
Mr A suggested that as SLAL could trace documents going back before 2003 it was 
unacceptable for it to suggest it cannot trace documents for when the plan matured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A believes strongly that SLAL has done something wrong in paying out 
the proceeds of his endowment plan into the account that it did. But I have to make my 
findings on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not  based on the available 
evidence.
Because of the time since the plan matured SLAL has very little documentation available to 
show what happened. I note Mr A has suggested that because it has certain information 
available from before 2003 it follows that it should also be able to provide further information 
from when the plan matured. 
I understand why he might think that, but it isnt uncommon for a business to have limited 
and partial information on its systems so long after a plan has matured. The fact that it can 
provide limited information and documents from before 2003 isnt evidence that it has further 
documents and information from when the plan matured. The fact it can provide some 
information about the bank account also doesnt mean it has the name of the account holder 
as Mr A has also suggested. 
The data protection provisions businesses operate under mean they should only keep 
documents for as long as these are needed. This typically means documents wont be kept 
more than six years after a plan ends. Despite this, businesses often have partial bits of 
information and limited documents still available, as is the case here.
SLAL has confirmed it has provided the information it has available. There is no evidence 
that suggests that it has further documents or information it hasnt disclosed, and Im not 
persuaded it has withheld any relevant document.
Mr As complaint is that SLAL didnt pay the maturity proceeds to him in 2003 as he says it 
shouldve done. He has referred to there having been a fraud and has reported this to the 
police and to Action Fraud.
But to uphold this complaint I need to be satisfied that it is more likely than not that SLAL 
were wrong to pay the proceeds into the account that it did. And despite what Mr A has said, 
there isnt any persuasive evidence to show it is more likely than not it was wrong to make 
the payment. 
I think it is more likely than not that SLAL made payment into an account because it was 
instructed go do so. In other words, I think someone provided the bank account details - I 
dont think it is very likely SLAL paid money into a random bank account without such 
instruction.
The question then is who gave that instruction? Based on the information SLAL has provided 
the plan was originally assigned to a mortgage company but was later assigned back to Mr 
A. And although he has confirmed he did have a mortgage in 2003 there is nothing to show 
the plan was assigned to anyone else after being assigned back to him. So, on the available 
evidence it seems that Mr A was the person entitled to the proceeds of the plan and the 
person who could give instructions on where the proceeds should be paid.
I note Mr A has suggested that he instructed SLAL to contact his accountants as his agent 
and has referred to an email SLAL sent to him in June 2019 confirming this. But the email I 
have seen doesnt refer to his accountants being appointed as his agents. It refers to SLAL 
being given authority to provide information to his accountants. I dont think these are the 
same thing and Im not persuaded that the accountants were agents from which SLAL had to 
take instructions. 
Even if I am wrong about that, and Mr A had instructed SLAL to get instructions from the 
accountants, there is nothing to show that it didnt do so. The accountants havent been able 
to provide any documentation relating to Mr A. This is for the same reason that SLAL has 
only been able to provide very limited information - namely the time since it has acted for 
him. So, it is possible that SLAL did contact the accountants and they provided instructions.If SLAL didnt have authority to contact the accountants for instructions then I think it is more 
likely than not it wouldve written to Mr A directly, as it has said would be its normal practice 
when the plan maturity date was approaching. It did not have Mr As up to date address - he 
confirmed he didnt provide this to SLAL when he moved in 2000. I think it is more likely than 
not it wouldve written to him at his previous address. 
I note his ex-wife has confirmed that she did collect post from that address. She says she 
has no recollection of anything relating to the plan. But any correspondence wouldve been 
addressed to Mr A not her, and she would have no reason to remember this unless she 
opened it. Given the time since maturity, it is quite possible she did pick up correspondence 
from SLAL and passed this on to Mr A and has simply forgotten about this.
Mr As complaint is based on him not providing instructions and not benefitting from the 
proceeds of the plan. But his evidence isnt persuasive as he is recalling events from a long 
time ago. Memories from so long ago are unlikely to be accurate or complete. 
I think Mr As own evidence shows this, as he says he had forgotten the plan altogether until 
he came across paperwork in 2019, 16 years after the plan matured. Im also mindful that he 
received statements at least until he moved in 2000  I have seen one sent to him in 1999  
that showed the current value and maturity date. Given this it seems unlikely that he 
wouldve forgotten about the plan in 2003.
I acknowledge he says he had a large portfolio overseen by others, and I note that he 
started a new company in January 2003, so he clearly had a lot going on. It is possible that 
this might have made it easier to forget he had a plan due to mature. But I think it is at least 
equally as likely that he did remember the plan and gave instructions but because he had 
other investments and business interests he has forgotten about this.
The bank has been unable to provide further evidence of the account the proceeds were 
paid into, so the name of the account holder is still unknown. Mr A has said he didnt have an 
account with Lloyds at the time and that he didnt get the money. But even if the account 
wasnt in his name, he couldve given instructions for the money to be paid into an account in 
a different name. 
I acknowledge that it is possible that someone else held themselves out as him and set up 
an account for the money to be paid into. But there is simply no persuasive evidence this is 
what happened. The only evidence that suggests this is Mr As statement to this effect, 
which isnt supported by any other evidence I have seen. In the circumstances Im unable to 
say it is more likely than not that SLAL paid the proceeds of the plan into the account that it 
did without having appropriate authority to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman