DRN-3092759
The complaint
Mr H complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and their failure to honour a Managed Loan 
Agreement (MLA).
What happened
Mr H held a personal loan, credit card and overdraft facility with HSBC. On 14 May 2020, Mr 
H spoke with HSBC and agreed to consolidate the balances on each of these accounts onto 
an MLA, with a monthly payment of £450. HSBC explained for the MLA to be set up, Mr H 
would need to make two qualifying payments of the monthly amount. Mr H also discussed 
the impact this would have on his credit file and HSBC advised they didnt know. But they did 
explain Mr Hs credit card account would record two missed payments as Mr H wasnt able 
to make payments toward this card while the qualifying payments were being made. Mr H 
agreed to this and the MLA was transferred to HSBCs back office to be processed.
But on 18 May, HSBCs back office identified discrepancies with Mr Hs MLA income and 
expenditure and it was decided Mr H would need to complete a new one before the MLA 
would be agreed. And as Mr Hs overall debt was over £30,000, the MLA needed senior 
approval before being agreed. So, HSBCs back office referred it back to the appropriate 
team to contact Mr H.
On 19 May, Mr Hs separate application for a payment holiday was agreed. Due to this, they 
placed Mr Hs MLA application on hold as two agreements of this nature couldnt be in place 
at one time. The MLA application was then cancelled on 27 May.
On 30 May, Mr H spoke to HSBC after he missed a payment on his credit card. It was at this 
point he was made aware the MLA had been cancelled as a payment holiday had been put 
in place. But after discussions, the call handler told Mr H his MLA would instead begin at the 
end of Mr Hs payment holiday, with the forms being sent out after this. The handler 
explained on this call that the MLA would be agreed once the paperwork had been signed 
and returned by Mr H.
On 5 August, HSBC contacted Mr H to discuss the MLA. They explained a new income and 
expenditure would need to be completed for the MLA to be set up. But Mr H was unhappy 
about this as he felt it had already been agreed months earlier. So, he refused to provide 
further information about his finances and wanted the original MLA honoured. HSBC said 
they couldnt do this and advised Mr H to raise a complaint if he remained unhappy. So, Mr 
H did so.
Mr H was unhappy that the original MLA wasnt put in place when hed made the qualifying 
payments. He thought hed entered into a legally binding contract because of this and HSBC 
were breaching this by not finalising the MLA and sending him the required paperwork. He 
was also unhappy about the impact this issue was having on his credit score as he wasnt 
making his usual payments to his three accounts in order to follow the MLA process. So, Mr 
H wanted the MLA set up and any negative information removed from his credit file.
HSBC responded and upheld the complaint. They agreed they had provided the incorrect 
information to Mr H on several occasions. In particular, they thought Mr H shouldve been 
advised to set up a new payment holiday rather than waiting for the MLA to resume. They 
recognised the inconvenience this caused Mr H and offered him £300 to recognise this. 
They also agreed to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file up to 
August 2020. But they explained for Mr Hs MLA to be set up, he would still need to 
complete a new income and expenditure form. And they explained if he didnt do this, the 
MLA application couldnt be completed and an MLA couldnt be put in place. Mr H wasnt 
happy with this and re-emphasised his position.
HSBC responded again, offering to increase their compensation payment to £500. But they 
reiterated income and expenditure information would need to be provided for an MLA to be 
set up and that the original MLA application was voided in May 2020. They explained if Mr H 
followed this process, and an MLA was set up, the payments Mr H had already made would 
be added to the MLA. Mr H remained unhappy with this response so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She understood Mr Hs 
unhappiness as hed made financial plans thinking the MLA had been approved. And she 
recognised the upset he wouldve felt when he was told this now wasnt in place, as well as 
the frustration at being given conflicting information. But she thought the £500 HSBC offered 
was a fair one to recognise this upset. She also thought that HSBC amending Mr Hs credit 
file up to August 2020 was reasonable as it recognised the impact this conflicting information 
couldve had.
But our investigator didnt think she should ask HSBC to put in place the MLA agreed in May 
2020. She thought HSBC had made it reasonably clear to Mr H that, for this MLA to be 
formally agreed, hed need to provide further income and expenditure information. And that it 
was Mr Hs decision not to do so. So, she thought Mr H shouldve been aware at this point 
there was no MLA in place and manage his accounts accordingly. She didnt think it was 
HSBCs fault that Mr H continued to pay towards an MLA they said wasnt in place. So, she 
didnt think HSBC were responsible for any negative impact this had on Mr Hs credit file 
after August 2020 and so, she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for him to be impacted by an MLA HSBC had 
forced him into. And he maintained his view that the MLA was a legally binding agreement 
so HSBC should be made to honour it. And if not, HSBC should amend his credit file and 
suggest a suitable alternative plan.
Our investigator responded explaining shed listened to the original call setting up the MLA in 
May 2020 and she didnt think HSBC forced Mr H into agreeing to the plan. And she 
explained our service doesnt comment on the legalities of a contract. But instead looks at 
whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably and if an offer of compensation has been made, 
whether this reasonably recognises the impact to a customer. So, she maintained her view 
that HSBC didnt need to do anything more. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would useful for me to explain what 
Ive been able to consider and how. Im aware Mr H wants our service to make a ruling on 
the legality of the contract he feels he entered into with HSBC. Were unable to do so as we 
arent a court. Instead, we are an alternative to those courts and our role is to consider the 
service HSBC provided to Mr H and decide whether it was fair and reasonable. So, this is 
how Ive considered Mr Hs complaint.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I dont doubt Mr H 
made financial plans based on the MLA being in place. And I recognise on several 
occasions, Mr H was led to believe it was as long as he made the two qualifying payments. 
And Mr H made these. So, when he was then informed he needed to provide further 
information before anything could be agreed, I appreciate how frustrating this wouldve been. 
And I recognise how this may have impacted Mr Hs finances and his future plans.
But Im also aware HSBC dont dispute their service fell below the standard theyd expect. 
And they recognise Mr H was provided with conflicting information and how this may have 
impacted his financial situation at the time. Ive seen they didnt explain to Mr H how a 
payment holiday would affect his application for an MLA. And Ive seen they told Mr H his 
MLA would be put in place after the payment holiday without explaining more information 
was required. So, I dont think HSBC managed Mr Hs expectations well. And I recognise Mr 
H stopped making payments to his credit card on the basis an MLA would be put in place 
and this wouldve had an impact on his credit file.
HSBC have already offered Mr H £500 to recognise the upset and inconvenience Mr H has 
been caused. And theyve amended Mr Hs credit file from April  August 2020 to ensure no 
negative information was recorded for any of the three accounts. So, Ive thought about 
whether this offer is fair, and in line with what Id direct had it not been made. And I think it is 
on this occasion.
Mr Hs main argument against this is that the MLA he entered into was binding. So, he 
doesnt think HSBC were fair to ask for more information about his finances. But Ive listened 
to calls Mr H held with HSBC on both 14 and 30 May 2020. And on both calls, Mr H is told 
hed be sent paperwork to sign relating to the MLA once hed made his two qualifying 
payments. And that this paperwork would need to be signed and returned within 30 days 
before the MLA would be drawn down and his three accounts closed.
Mr H never received this paperwork as the MLA was never authorised by HSBCs back 
office team as part of the MLA process. And on the call held on 30 May, Mr H himself asked 
for written confirmation of the MLA as he was concerned he had nothing in writing. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr H was reasonably aware he needed to sign further documentation for the 
MLA to be set up.
But Im also aware that from May to August, Mr H was told on several occasions that the 
MLA paperwork would be sent to him after the qualifying payments had been made and then 
at the end of his payment holiday. So, I think Mr H was fair to assume the MLA was 
progressing as intended until August. And because of this, I dont think he was given any 
information that shouldve led him to manage his open accounts in a way that was different 
than he was told on the call on 14 May. And I recognise on this call, he was told to only 
make a payment to the MLA. So, I think any negative information reported to Mr Hs credit 
file within this time should be removed. And Im glad to see HSBC have already done so.
But I dont think HSBC are responsible for any negative information reported to Mr Hs credit 
file after August 2020. Or the impact this has had on Mr Hs ability to obtain credit from this 
point. Nor do I think theyre responsible for the build up in arrears on Mr Hs accounts or any 
action HSBC took in relation to these arrears such as preventing further spending. This is because I think HSBC made it reasonably clear to Mr H in August that the MLA hadnt been 
set up. And that Mr H would need to provide further income and expenditure information for 
it to be agreed. When I consider this, alongside the fact Mr H hadnt signed any paperwork to 
agree the MLA, I think it shouldve been reasonably clear to Mr H that his three open 
accounts still needed to be maintained. 
It was Mr Hs decision not to provide further income and expenditure information. While I 
appreciate Mr Hs frustration at having to do so, I dont think Mr H should expect to control 
HSBCs internal application process. HSBC dont dispute the original way in which the MLA 
was processed was incorrect and this has been considered as part of the £500 theyve 
offered. But once these errors were identified, I think HSBC made it clear they needed more 
information to approve the MLA and I think Mr H had an obligation to follow HSBCs 
processes to ensure the MLA was put in place correctly.
So, I also think it was Mr Hs decision to continue to make payments towards the MLA when 
he shouldve been aware it hadnt been put in place. And because of this, I think it was Mr 
Hs decision to stop making payments to his other accounts when he was aware this may 
have an impact on his credit file and so, his ability to obtain future credit. 
Because of the above, I think HSBCs offer of £500 is a fair one and in line with what I 
wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it takes into consideration the amount 
of times Mr H was provided with conflicting information and the confusion this caused. I also 
think it takes into account the short-term impact it wouldve had on Mr Hs credit file until it 
was amended. And Im glad to see HSBC have amended Mr Hs credit file for this time 
period as part of their complaint response as Id expect them to do. Because of this, I dont 
think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I recognise this doesnt 
alleviate the problems he now faces in obtaining future credit due to the negative information 
reported to his credit file after August 2020. But as Ive explained, I think it was Mr Hs own 
decision to continue making payments to an MLA that wasnt in existence. And by doing so, 
it was Mr Hs own decision to allow payments to be missed on his open accounts. HSBC 
have an obligation to accurately report the way a customer manages their account to their 
credit file, in order to allow other lenders to accurately calculate the risk of lending. In this 
situation, I think HSBC accurately reported the missed payments as Mr H knowingly missed 
these when he shouldve been aware the accounts remained open.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about HSBC Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman