DRN-2924653
The complaint
Mr M complains about a decision by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) to reject an application for finance.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I understand Mr Ms concerns here as when his wife made an application for the same 
finance with similar financial details, she was accepted whilst Mr M wasnt. Hes therefore 
concerned there may have been some sort of adverse mark against his name.
Its for BPF to set their lending criteria but if an application is refused I would expect them to 
provide their main reason for rejecting it. BPF dont have to provide much detail as that could 
lead to consumers manipulating their credit approval process in the future.
Here, BPF have provided a reason. They explained that the reason they rejected Mr Ms 
application for credit to buy a phone was because the income recorded wasnt high enough. 
As that income was only £70 it seems the income was recorded incorrectly. BPF also 
explained that they didnt proceed any further with the application and didnt consider other 
aspects such as Mr Ms credit file. I think BPF have therefore provided the information they 
are required to; theyve explained the primary reason for rejecting the credit application.
Whilst it would be usual for the business to report Mr Ms credit enquiry to the credit 
reference agencies, I dont think that would identify him as a bad credit risk and Ive not seen 
any evidence of that.
I understand Mr M had another credit application refused through another part of the group, 
Im not reviewing that lending decision here and I dont think its likely the reasons for 
rejection are linked as BPF have explained their primary reason for rejecting this application 
was the income submitted.
BPF have explained that Mr Ms wife recorded different details on her application so it 
wouldnt be fair to make comparisons.
Mr M has suggested that its BPFs systems that are wrong here and that they should have 
some fool proofing in place to ensure erroneous figures arent entered. This service doesnt 
regulate BPF and decisions about whether to adopt such systems, or not, are operational 
ones that BPF are free to make.
I can see there were some delays in BPF providing a decision on Mr Ms complaint. They 
offered £100 compensation in recognition of those delays and, in the circumstances, I think 
that was reasonable.
Im not therefore asking BPF to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman