DRN-2620249
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way his application for a credit card was dealt with by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard, including not accepting his proof of income, providing 
conflicting information about the account closure and making a hard search against him 
thats been recorded on his credit file.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr N applied to open a Barclaycard with an initial credit limit of £1,200.  
Barclaycard offered him a limit of £50 to start with while it completed its credit checks, 
including asking Mr N for proof of income.
Mr N sent in some documents in July but Barclaycard said it wasnt sufficient and asked for 
further verification. When it didnt receive what it needed from Mr N, it sent two more chaser 
letters in July and August before deciding on 20 August to close his account. A notice of 
closure was issued on 21 August 2020.
At the beginning of October Mr N tried to increase his credit limit but this was declined. His 
account was closed on 21 October.
Mr N feels Barclays should have accepted his wage slips as proof of income and feels the 
way its handled this has been unfair. Hes also unhappy that, when he spoke to Barclays, it 
didnt tell him there was anything wrong with the information hed sent. In addition, he says 
Barclays carried out a hard search against him as part of its assessment which has now 
been recorded on his credit file even though it then closed his account. Hed like this 
removed.
Mr N further complains that Barclays gave him conflicting information about the account 
closure in that when he applied for the credit limit increase, he received a text saying his limit 
would stay at £50 only to be told later that his account had already been closed.
Barclays accepted it had provided conflicting information about the account closure for which 
it apologised and offered £50 compensation. However, it didnt agree it had acted unfairly 
with regard to the way it had handled Mr Ns application. It said that confirming the 
consumers income was part of its assessment process, and that its approach was to offer a 
low initial limit while it completed its checks. In this case Mr N hadnt provided the 
information it required despite several reminders so it had closed his account.  With regard 
to the credit search it said Mr N had agreed to this when hed signed the application form so 
it was satisfied this had been done correctly.
Our investigator felt Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly. She couldnt agree it had 
made a mistake when closing Mr Ns account or in carrying out the search. And while she 
understood Mr Ns frustration at being given the wrong information about the account 
closure, she considered that the compensation paid by Barclays was reasonable so she 
wouldnt be asking it to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
Mr N disagreed and said, in summary:
 
  Hed been told by several staff at Barclays that a credit limit of £50 was 
ridiculous.
  When hed spoken to various members of staff, theyd confirmed that the 
documents hed sent in were adequate only to be told a few days later that they 
were insufficient. As a result, he felt hed wasted a significant amount of his 
time in contacting the bank online and in person. He noted that his documents 
had been accepted for credit elsewhere for higher amounts.
  Hed applied for an increase in his credit limit after hed been told the decision to 
close the account had been reversed. But shortly after this hed received another 
letter saying the account would be closed. He felt this showed how poor Barclays 
communication had been.
  When hed given consent for the search to be carried out as part of the application 
process, hed done so on the basis he was going to be long term user of the 
account and not a temporary borrower of £50. He felt it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to carry out a search in the circumstances and when it had decided to 
close his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider Barclays has dealt with this complaint fairly so I wont be asking 
it to do anything more, as Ill now explain.
I should explain that where theres no clear information on any point, or the information 
requested is incomplete or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the balance of 
probabilities or in other words whats more likely than not to have happened taking into 
account the circumstances of the case.
Mr N made an application for a credit card in June 2020. As a part of that process he 
agreed Barclays could contact him to get further information, to make credit checks and 
other enquiries and, where appropriate, to share that information. On that basis Im 
satisfied that Mr N had consented to Barclays carrying out a credit reference search.
I can understand why Mr N feels disappointed that, having done the search, Barclays 
decided not to keep his account open. But when Barclays made the search it couldnt have 
known thered be a problem with the information provided by Mr N that would lead to the 
account being closed so I cant reasonably say it should have taken that into account at 
that time. 
Its clear that Mr B feels very strongly that Barclays hasnt dealt with this application fairly. 
He queries whey the information he provided wasnt accepted, not least as he says he was 
told by different staff that it was. Hes also unhappy with the way the account was closed 
and how this was communicated to him.  Ill look at these in turn.
Like all lenders, Barclays is required to ensure that any borrowing it offers it both affordable 
and sustainable. Theres no specific list of checks that a business needs to carry out but, 
as a minimum, it would be usual to expect it to verify the consumers identity and income 
and check if theres any other credit information that might be relevant. I can see in Mr Ns case that Barclays wanted proof of his income over several consecutive months to show he 
had a regular income and I think that was reasonable.
Ive seen Mr N has said that other lenders accepted his information but each business will 
have its own criteria so I cant compare one with another. And the checks that each 
business makes is a commercial decision for that business that I cant interfere with. But in 
this case, I can see that Barclays contacted Mr N several times to explain the information 
hed sent in wasnt sufficient and to explain what else was required so I consider it had 
given Mr N a reasonable opportunity to provide the necessary information. And when he 
didnt I think it was entitled to make the decision to close the account.
Ive taken into account that Mr N says he was told several times bv staff at Barclays that his 
documents were acceptable. I dont have any information about these calls or 
conversations so I cant comment on what may have been said although its fair to say that 
the assessment isnt carried out by the front line staff so that any information that they had 
would, at best, be limited. This was confirmed by the online chat of 28 August that stated 
the assessment was being carried out by the applications team. In the circumstances I 
cant reasonably say, on balance, that Mr N was misled about his application.
And with regard to the initial credit limit, Barclays has explained that its policy is to start with 
a lower limit until it has completed its checks. So it seems clear this was intended to be a 
temporary arrangement that would in all probability have been increased if Mr N had 
passed the credit checks. I dont consider that was unreasonable.
However, its clear that Barclays gave Mr N conflicting information about whether his 
account had been closed. In August, Barclays sent Mr N a notice of closure. It then told him 
the account was still open before confirming, in October, that this wasnt correct and it had 
been closed. I can understand how confusing this was for Mr N and why he found it so 
frustrating. But Barclays has accepted its service in this regard was poor and offered Mr N 
£50 for the inconvenience its caused.
I realise Mr N may not feel this is sufficient to reflect what happened but having considered 
the impact of the mistake and the time it lasted, I think it is reasonable. If Barclays hasnt 
already done so it should now contact Mr N to arrange for payment of this amount. For the 
reasons set out above, however, I dont consider Barclays made a mistake in the way it 
dealt with Mr Ns application or in carrying out, or recording, the credit search. I wont, 
therefore, be asking it to do anything more to resolve Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint and consider that the compensation 
payment already offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard is sufficient. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman