DRN-3021343
The complaint
Ms M complained that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms M was given three logbook loans by Varooma as follows:
Loan Date loan 
takenLoan amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount
repayable 
over the 
loan term
1 16/11/2018 £1,500 30 months £137.50 £4,125
2 30/04/2019 £2,375 30 months £227.60 £6,828.13
3 14/09/2019 £2,850 36 months £281.04 £10,117.50
I understand that loans 1 and 2 were effectively repaid each time the next loan was taken 
out and the amount borrowed topped up with additional lending  and that loan 3 hasnt 
been repaid.
These were loans provided on the basis that Ms M gave Varooma a bill of sale for her 
car. This meant that Varooma owned the car and if Ms M didnt make her loan 
repayments, Varooma could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle.
In summary, Ms M mainly complained that the loan was unaffordable for her as she was 
already in financial difficulty. Through her representative, Ms M told us that her financial 
situation should have been apparent if proper checks had been done before lending  and 
these loans added to her debt problems.
Varooma said the checks it carried out, which included obtaining credit report details and 
looking at bank statements, showed that the loans looked affordable for Ms M.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ms complaint. She didnt feel she had seen enough to 
be able to uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Ms M disagreed. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Varooma was obliged to lend responsibly. So, it had to carry out a reasonable assessment 
of Ms Ms creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that Varooma had 
to consider not just the business risk it was taking on that Ms M wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, but also the risk to Ms M of not being able to 
make these repayments. In particular, Varooma had to consider Ms Ms ability to make 
repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the whole loan term, without Ms M 
needing to borrow to meet the repayments or putting her in a position where she would be 
unable to make any other repayment she had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on her overall financial situation.
Whilst it is up to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should 
be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length 
of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. In 
general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
If a borrower has been given several loans, there may even come a point where the lending 
history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Finally, the rules list unfair business practices. In particular, the rules say a lender mustnt 
accept an application for credit where it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the 
borrower has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
relevant to the creditworthiness assessment. This would arise, for example, where the 
information supplied by a borrower is clearly inconsistent with other information of which 
the lender is aware.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ms case, Ive carefully 
considered the following questions:
Did Varooma complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Ms Ms loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
Did Varooma make a fair lending decision?
Was there a point at which the pattern or history of lending itself showed 
further borrowing would be unsustainable for Ms M?
I've thought about each loan in turn.
Varooma carried out some checks before it gave the first loan to Ms M which included 
asking for details of her income and expenditure. It also asked for bank statements (which it 
sent us) and did some credit checks. Ive seen a summary of the results of those credit 
checks which suggested that Ms M had no other unsecured debt. The income and 
expenditure assessment for this loan application suggested that the loan repayments would 
be comfortably affordable for her. I say this because after paying all her usual monthly outgoings which Ms M told Varooma about out of her salary (which Varooma was able to 
check on her bank statement) it looked like Ms M should have reasonably expected to have 
more than £600 left to pay for this loan  which should have amply covered the monthly 
repayments of £137.50. 
I've taken into account the detailed analysis of Ms Ms finances by her representative. 
I appreciate the time and trouble taken to put forward the points made on Ms Ms behalf  
essentially that the information on her bank statements showed income substantially in 
excess of her take home pay and it should have been obvious that she was reliant on other 
borrowing and already struggling with existing debt. 
But I dont think there was sufficient information to alert Varooma to the fact that credits 
being made into Ms Ms bank account were necessarily other lending that she had to repay. 
And whilst it seems clear that Varoomas credit checks didnt pick up all her other existing 
credit  which included payments to mail order companies and other unsecured debt - this 
doesnt mean that Varooma didnt do a proper check and it isnt a reason for me to uphold 
the complaint. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have other borrowing or even 
an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a 
responsible lender to decline a loan application, as long as the loan still looked affordable. 
And a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised. Not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit 
reference agencies and it can take a while sometimes for information to show up on 
someones credit report. So any of these things may explain differences between a credit 
report obtained by a business and that persons actual credit history. 
I dont think there was anything in the information that Varooma gathered at the time which 
shouldve made it realise it needed to do more in-depth checking before agreeing to lend or 
that ought reasonably to have led Varooma to the conclusion that Ms Ms loan application 
should be declined. So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Ms Ms irresponsible 
lending complaint about loan 1. 
Varooma went through the same application process for the second loan. Ms Ms financial 
situation was broadly the same  the loan looked affordable on the figures she had declared 
and it appeared that her take home pay was ample to support the loan repayments after 
taking into account the monthly outgoings she had declared. There wasnt anything adverse 
in the credit checks that shouldve alerted Varooma to think that the loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable for Ms M. The bank statements obtained by Varooma showed that 
around this time Ms M had an average credit balance in excess of several thousands of 
pounds and no indication of any serious money management issues. Her other debt 
commitments all looked like they were being paid without difficulty and Ms M also appeared 
to be paying money out of her account on what looked like discretionary spending  in other 
words, non-essential things that it wouldve been reasonable for a lender to think she might 
have cut back on if she had been struggling financially. 
Varooma was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. I've thought carefully about why someone apparently in 
Ms Ms financial situation might choose to borrow expensive credit and put up her car as 
security. But it seems that shed told Varooma that the loan purpose was to cover vet bills. So I think that wouldve seemed like a plausible reason why a person, even with the amount 
of disposable income that Ms M appeared to have, might still want to take out this loan. And 
despite what Ms M has said about her financial difficulties at the time, that isnt reflected in 
the information that Varooma had gathered for this loan  and she appeared to have 
managed all the repayments on loan 1 without any evident problem. So I cant fairly say 
that, at this early stage, Varooma shouldve realised that loan 2 wasnt sustainably 
affordable for Ms M or that it should not have lent it to her. 
Ms M topped up her borrowing when she took out loan 3 and Im mindful that this was the 
second time she had taken out a loan in order to clear her previous loan and take out 
some extra borrowing. But I dont think these things alone were reasons not to lend. Ms M 
hadnt given Varooma any sign that she had found it hard to pay for her previous 
borrowing and she had indicated an ongoing need to cover vet bills. On the face of it, her 
income and expenditure figures didnt suggest she would have any problem meeting the 
increased repayments on loan 3.
I appreciate that Ms Ms representative feels strongly that Varooma shouldve been 
concerned about some of the information it could see on the bank statements Ms M provided 
to it  in particular, the credits being made into her account by a third party I will just call J. 
Whilst payments into Ms Ms account from J had appeared previously, there had been no 
obvious pattern. And there could be lots of reasons to explain the payments it had seen 
which wouldnt have worried a responsible lender. Quite possibly, for instance, J mightve 
been repaying money owed to Ms M, or Ms M mightve been providing some service to J or 
selling things to her. Its clear that Ms M also received credits from other people into her 
account also. But by this stage, I think it was clear that J was making substantial and 
recurring credits into Ms Ms account  in the weeks running up to Ms M applying for loan 3 
she had received three payments into her account from J which added up to £3,150. Bearing 
in mind that Ms Ms salary that month was around £1,262, I do think Varooma should have 
asked Ms M about these payments. I havent seen anything to suggest that it did this. And of 
course, if it had, I dont know how Ms M might have explained the payments. But Im mindful 
that Ms Ms representative feels strongly that Varooma should have found out that this was 
additional lending which Ms M was having to repay. 
So I've thought carefully about what I think its likely that a proportionate check would have 
revealed to Varooma. 
It was apparent from what Varooma saw on Ms Ms bank statements that she was making 
transfers into what appeared to be another account  so I think a proportionate check would 
have required Varooma to ask Ms M for information about that account. I asked for more 
information about this and requested bank statements for the account to help me understand 
Ms Ms actual financial situation at the time.
I also asked about whether there is any further evidence that wouldve showed loan 
repayments were being made to J. 
I've thought carefully about all the information that I've seen and been told about this. Im 
grateful to Ms Ms representative for all the information provided  but that isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. Where the information is incomplete, as 
some of it is here, I must make my decision based on what I think is most likely after taking 
into account all the information thats available. This means making some reasonable 
assumptions where theres only limited information and I must be impartial. So far, I dont 
feel that I have seen enough fairly to be able to say that Varooma should have realised 
loan 3 was not sustainably affordable. I say this because, although I appreciate that Ms M was routinely making cash withdrawals 
after payments into her account from J, I cant say that Varooma should have reasonably 
inferred from this information that these were repayments being made on a high cost loan. 
There was no information to identify the credit payments from J as a loan, Varooma had no 
other reason to think that J was a high cost credit provider and there was no information to 
show that the cash withdrawals were being used to repay J. So, unless Ms M told Varooma 
she was borrowing and repaying high cost loans from J (and I've seen nothing to make me 
think that she did) then I cant say that Varooma, had it done a proportionate check, should 
have found out this information. 
And I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows Varooma would 
have decided not to agree this loan had it done more in-depth checks. 
So for these reasons, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold loan 3.
This means, overall, Im not planning on upholding this complaint. I appreciate this is 
disappointing for Ms M but I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps her to understand 
how I've come to my conclusions.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms Ms representative sent me further detailed representations in support of her view that 
Varooma lent irresponsibly to Ms M. In very brief summary, she remained concerned about 
the way affordabilty was assessed and in particular, she feels that Varooma should have 
done more to find out about the extent of Ms Ms current indebtedness before providing 
loan 3  not least because bank statements seen by Varooma showed that Ms M was 
making a payment of around £126 to a debt management company. 
Varooma didnt comment specifically on what Id said in my provisional decision but let us 
know that Ms M had stopped making payments towrds the loan last year and she has been 
in arrears since then. However, given that it understood Ms M was acting on advice 
received, as a gesture of goodwill it told us that it hadnt reported this on her credit file and 
Varooma also told us it will remove the additional interest on her account resulting from this 
as soon as payment resumes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Ms Ms representative in particular for responding in such detail to my provisional 
decision.
I appreciate that Ms Ms representative, on behalf of Ms M, feels strongly about what 
happened and she holds a different view to me. I would like to assure her that Ive taken 
carefully into account everything thats been said, including all of her comments made in the 
run up to my provisional decision and the exchange of correspondence there has been since 
I issued my provisional decision. 
Ms M (through her representative) hasnt provided me with any new information that 
changes what I think about this case. Id already considered the main points raised when 
thinking about my provisional decision and addressed everything mentioned which had a bearing on the outcome. And after taking carefully into account everything thats been said in 
response to my provisional decision, and as no further comments have been received in 
response to my provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its 
fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Ive explained why I think Varooma did proportionate checks before providing loans 1 and 2. 
I think it should have done more in-depth checks before providing loan 3. But I still havent 
seen enough to make me think that had it done so it wouldve likely discovered information 
that should have made Varooma realise that loan 3 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable 
for Ms M. 
Ms Ms representative is concerned that a reference to payments being made via a debt 
management company, that appeared on Ms Ms bank statements which Varooma could 
have seen, should have led to it rejecting her application for loan 3. Ive thought carefully 
about this - but it doesnt affect my overall view. I say this because the fact alone that Ms M 
was making payments through a debt management company does not mean that further 
lending was automatically unsustainable. And I cant fairly say that would have been a 
reasonable conclusion for Varooma to have reached bearing in mind the other information it 
saw on her bank statements. 
Im mindful that Ms M was fully engaged in the loan application process and if she did not 
choose to reveal the extent of her indebtedness I cant fairly say that Varooma should have 
found out about it. 
Evidence of payments being made to a debt management company suggests a debtor has 
taken ownership debt and has set up manageable payments to repay money owed in a 
sustainably way. Once these arrangements are in place, lenders will be aware that there can 
be little real advantage to a borrower in making any payments over and above those already 
agreed and set up - that can explain why someone who appears to have disposable income 
is still making payments via a debt management company. 
Varoomas income and expenditure assessment, which included payment to the debt 
management company, showed the loan was still affordable for Ms M. And in these 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that Varooma should have done more to verify 
Ms Ms financial situation  or that its lending decision was unfair.
I can understand that Ms M will be disappointed in the outcome of her complaint but I hope 
that setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view. 
If I havent commented on everything Ms Ms representative has said during the course of 
this complaint that because I feel theres nothing more I can usefully add to what has been 
said in response already and it doesnt change the outcome. 
I have dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the final decision and I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I consider Varoomas offer to remove the additional interest incurred on Ms Ms account 
(resulting from her having stopped the loan repayments on advice received) when the first 
payment has been made is a generous and genuine attempt to provide financial assistance 
to Ms M. I would urge Ms M to re-establish contact with Varooma at the earliest opportunity 
to discuss her current financial situation and try to agree suitable payment arrangements if 
she still needs further time to pay. 
I would take this opportunity to remind Varooma of its continuing obligation to treat Ms M 
positively and sympathetically in any discussions.  And if Ms M would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if 
she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman