DRN-4038449
The complaint
Ms L complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc advised her to cancel the direct debit 
for her mortgage payment in March 2022. Ms L says she later found out RBS recorded 
arrears and a default on her credit file. Ms L says this delayed a re-mortgage and property 
purchase. She asks for compensation for financial loss.
What happened
Ms L contacted RBS in February 2022. She said she wouldnt be able to fund the direct debit 
payment due in early March 2022, but could make the payment later in the month. Ms L says 
RBS told her to cancel the direct debit and make a manual payment. 
In March 2022 Ms L started the process of re-mortgaging and buying a second property. At 
the end of July 2022, only a few days before her purchase was due to complete, her new 
lender withdrew its offer to lend. Ms L says this was due to adverse data on her credit file. 
Ms L hadnt made payments into the mortgage account in April to July 2022 and RBS had 
reported the missed payments to the credit reference agencies. 
Ms L says she received no letters about the missed payments. She brought her account up 
to date by making payments in August and September 2022, and the re-mortgage 
completed later in 2022. Ms L says the delay resulted in additional costs and lost rental 
income.
RBS says it was aware that Ms L was living overseas but didnt update her address, or tell 
her she needed to call to arrange for post to be emailed to her. It accepted that Ms L didnt 
receive arrears letters and arranged for the adverse data to be removed from her credit file, 
adjusted interest on Ms Ls account and paid £250 compensation. 
Our investigator said RBS had done enough to put matters right. She said while Ms L didnt 
receive arrears letters from RBS, it remained her responsibility to make payments. Ms L 
didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L called RBS in late February 2022. Ive listened to the first part of this call. RBS cant 
now provide a recording of the second part of the call, after it was transferred internally. It did 
provide its account notes, which includes notes of this call.
I should say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ms L told RBS she was unable to make the payment due at the beginning of March 2022 as 
shed been unable to work. She said she would be able to make the payment at the end of 
the month. Both parties agree that RBS said Ms L should cancel her direct debit. RBS says it 
told Ms L shed need to make a manual payment and call back to re-instate the direct debit. 
Its notes support this.
Ms L made a payment at the end of March 2022. No payments were made into the account 
in April, May, June or July 2022. Ms L made payments in August and September 2022 to 
clear her arrears.
RBS accepts that Ms L didnt receive its letters about the missed payments. The security 
property was the address it had for Ms L in its records. RBS was aware that Ms L was living 
overseas. Shed previously called and asked for correspondence by email as she said letters 
took months to arrive. And post sent out by RBS in early 2022 had been returned marked 
gone away. RBS says it should have told Ms L it cant guarantee correspondence will be 
sent by email, as this has to be done manually, and that shed have to contact it to request 
this.
Because of this, RBS agreed to remove the arrears from Ms Ls credit file, adjust interest on 
her account and pay compensation of £250. RBS confirmed in mid-September 2022 that 
Ms L's account was up to date and it had arranged for the adverse data to be removed from 
her credit file. 
Ms L asks that RBS also pays compensation for additional costs related to her re-mortgage 
and property purchase and lost rental income. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
this. 
Theres no dispute that RBS told Ms L to cancel the direct debit due in early March 2022  
which Ms L didnt have funds for. I think its likely RBS also told Ms L shed need to make the 
payment manually (which she did) and call back to set up a new direct debit. But even if it 
hadnt, I think Ms L would reasonably have known this. 
When Ms L contacted RBS in mid-2022, she said that when she was advised to cancel the 
direct debit she was in the process of refinancing and expected this to complete in April 
2022. She said in my mind I made the last payment to [RBS]. Ms L said the arrears were 
due to RBS telling her to cancel her direct debit and unforeseen delays with her new 
mortgage provider. 
It seems, when Ms L cancelled the direct debit, she didnt expect to need to re-instate it. She 
expected the re-mortgage to complete in April 2022. Ms L says her solicitor didnt tell her 
there was a delay. I dont think RBS was responsible for any confusion about whether Ms Ls 
re-mortgage completed in April 2022. Ms L says she received a mortgage offer in May 2022 
and she returned documents to her solicitor in July 2022. So she must reasonably have 
been aware that the re-mortgage hadnt completed and, therefore, shed need to continue to 
make mortgage payments to RBS. 
Ms L says RBS took too long to sort out what had happened, despite knowing her mortgage 
offer would expire in mid-August 2022. I appreciate that Ms L was under time pressure. But I 
must be fair to both parties. Ms L contacted RBS on 28 July 2022. It was entitled to look into 
what had happened before offering a resolution. I think, in fairness, Ms L needed to clear her 
arrears before RBS could adjust her account and arrange for the adverse data to be cleared 
from her credit file. While Ms L says she needed up to date statements from RBS to do this, I 
think she ought reasonably to have known  or been able to work out  how many payments 
shed missed. Overall, I dont think its fair and reasonable to find that RBS should have 
arranged for adverse data to be removed from Ms Ls credit file in time for her re-mortgage 
to complete before mid-August 2022. Im sorry Ms Ls refinancing and property purchase were delayed due to the adverse data on 
her credit file. Perhaps, if RBS had contacted Ms L about her arrears by email, this might 
have prompted her to make the payments and avoid her account falling into arrears. I think 
the steps taken and compensation paid by RBS for not doing this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Ultimately, Ms L is responsible for making her mortgage payments. Ms L cancelled the direct 
debit and made a manual payment at the end of March 2022. I think Ms L ought reasonably 
to have known shed need to take steps to re-instate the direct debit or make manual 
payments after this. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require RBS to pay compensation 
to Ms L for any financial loss she incurred as a result of not doing so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I find the steps taken and 
payment make by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman