DRN-3025588
The complaint
Mr H has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided him with two 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
TFS Loans provided Mr H with two guarantor loans. The details of these are:
Loan Amount Date taken Term Monthly repayment
1 £5,000 24.11.2017 60 months £195.46
2 £10,000 11.10.2018 60 months £349.00
Loan 2 was a further advance and part of the proceeds of this loan were used to repay Loan 
1. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and partially upheld Mr Hs complaint. She 
concluded that TFS Loans had carried out proportionate checks and also made a fair lending 
decision regarding Loan 1. But she felt that TFS Loans didnt make a fair lending decision 
when it agreed to Loan 2. 
TFS Loans disagreed with our investigators view and says it carried out proportionate 
checks and then went on to make a fair lending decision for Loan 2. Mr H did not dispute our 
investigators findings or provide any further comments. 
As there is no longer any disagreement regarding Loan 1 and our investigators findings that 
TFS Loans was not wrong to give this loan, I have not looked into this any further. But TFS 
Loans has disputed the investigators findings about Loan 2.
So as the parties are still not in agreement about Loan 2, Mr Hs complaint has been passed 
to me an ombudsman, to make a decision here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
When TFS Loans lent to Mr H, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Hs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mr H wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr H of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Mr Hs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr 
Hs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate for Loan 2?
I have looked through the documents submitted and by doing this I have managed to obtain 
an understanding of what happened when TFS Loans agreed to lend to Mr H. I can see that 
it verified Mr Hs income by checking bank statements. It could see that on average Mr Hs 
monthly income was £1818.00. It also asked Mr H about his rent and council tax payment, 
obtained 3 months worth of bank statements and used a credit search to check for his credit 
commitments. It also used Office of National Statistics (ONS) average living costs. It says 
after it did this, it worked out Mr Hs disposable income and says it could see that he could 
afford the loan repayments. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said and on the surface of it, it had assessed 
Mr H to have enough disposable income to afford the loans. On this occasion when I consider the size of the loan and term, and also the amount of checks it undertook, I think it 
carried out enough and gathered enough information in order to make a decision to lend to 
Mr H.
But it also needed to act on any information that it would have gathered and make a fair 
lending decision based on what it had in front of it. So, I need to go on and consider whether 
it did this.
Did TFS make a fair lending decision for Loan 2?
Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out, on balance were proportionate. But I 
agree with the investigator and dont think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Mr H, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the bank statements that it gathered I can see that 
over a sustained period of time of 3 months, Mr H was reliant on other short term lending to 
cover a short fall in his finances. 
TFS Loans had concluded that Mr H could afford the loan repayments and after it had 
deducted his rent, council tax, ONS average living costs and his loan repayment from 
another finance provider and for this new loan, it calculated that Mr H would have disposable 
income of £199.00 a month. So according to its calculations Mr H would have had two short 
term loans to repay each month plus some credit card repayments too. This all came to 
around £756 a month. This represented over 40% of Mr Hs monthly income and his credit 
commitments that it recorded alone ought to have raised concerns with it that he could 
maintain his loan repayments with it in a sustainable way over the 5 year loan term.
But it also didnt act on information that it had in front of it that was also shown on the bank 
statements that it had gathered. As I have already mentioned, Mr H was using a third finance 
provider on a regular basis. The statements show me that Mr H was reliant on the credit 
provided here to cover the shortfall in his finances. When I consider the repayments he 
would have had to make on this additional finance, added to the credit commitments TFS 
Loans did note down in its assessment, I think it ought to have shown it that Mr H was 
having problems managing his finances. The information that TFS Loans had in front of it, 
showed that Mr H was paying a significant amount towards credit leading up to his 
application for his further advance. So, I conclude that based on what TFS Loans had in 
front of it, it would have seen Mr H wouldnt have been able to make repayments in a 
sustainable way and it follows that I think it shouldnt have agreed to loan 2.  
As Mr H has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the 
loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a 
result of what TFS Loans did wrong.
So, TFS Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr H shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. With this in mind, TFS Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr H was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr H to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Hs credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about TFS Loans Limited and 
it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman