DRN-2909569
The complaint
Ms M complains about the charges Ageas Retail Limited applied when she cancelled her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M sold her car for financial reasons and cancelled her motor insurance policy. But she 
was unhappy that Ageas charged her a £50 cancellation fee and that it said she owed 
£193.08 including outstanding premiums. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
had applied the cancellation charge in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. He 
thought it had charged Ms M additional premium due to an undisclosed fault claim. And he 
thought it had fairly waived about £100 of this as a gesture of goodwill because of a 
miscalculation it had made. 
Ms M replied that she thought this was unfair as Ageas hadnt done anything for £193. She 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Ms Ms financial difficulties. I can understand that this has been a 
difficult period for her. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers 
acted in line with its terms of business and fairly and reasonably.
Ms M was unhappy that Ageas increased her premium due to an undisclosed fault claim. 
She said she was disputing liability for this incident. But I think her previous insurer had told 
her it had settled the claim as fault. And so Ms M should have disclosed this when she took 
out her policy with Ageas. When the claim came to Ageas notice, I think it was entitled to 
recalculate Ms Ms premium. So I cant say that it made a mistake in increasing her premium 
due to this.
Before she cancelled her policy, Ms M missed one months payment of her premium and this 
was then spread over the remaining months of the policy year. This further increased her 
premium. 
Ageas cancellation charges are set out in its terms of business. I think these are clear and 
reasonable, and I think they were drawn to Ms Ms attention when she applied for cover. So I 
think its fair for Ageas to apply them.  
If a policy is cancelled after 14 days, the terms of business state that a charge will be made 
for time on cover, and there will be fees for cancellation, administration and interest for direct 
debit. Ms M was also charged two direct debit default fees for missed payments. 
The total of these fees and charges was £1,433.32 for Ms Ms 272 days on cover. Ms M had 
paid a deposit and instalments totalling £1,139.32. So I think Ms M owed Ageas £294.00 for 
her time on cover. 
Ms M thought Ageas hadnt done anything for this sum. But a policy is an annual contract 
even though the payments may be made monthly. And so I think its fair for Ageas to charge 
Ms M for the time she was on risk. 
Ageas agent had told Ms M that the balance outstanding at cancellation was £193.08. And I 
think Ageas reasonably offered to honour this. 
So I think Ageas treated Ms M fairly and reasonably when she cancelled her policy. I think it 
applied charges in keeping with its terms of business. And I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman