DRN-4261051
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Vodafone Limited carried out a hard search when he applied for a 
fixed sum loan agreement. 
What happened
Mr M says Vodafone contacted him to say he was due an account upgrade for his business 
mobile telephone. He tells us he used to pay around £68 per month for airtime and his 
device. And he says he was given a similar quote for the upgrade which he accepted. But 
after taking out the agreement he noticed the payments had been split in two  one for a 
device plan, and one for airtime. He also noticed a hard search had been placed on his 
credit file. Mr M says he wasnt aware this was how the agreement would be set up and so 
he contacted Vodafone. Mr M says he didnt want a loan and would be happy to pay it off to 
have the hard search removed as he was under the impression it would be a soft search 
with no trace on his credit file. 
Vodafone said it now provides separate agreements for airtime and device plans. It says it 
acted fairly by carrying out a credit search and that its process is clear for customers. So it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr M says hes a director of a business and the hard search could impact any future loans 
his business may wish to take. 
To resolve the complaint, Mr M says hed like the hard search removed. He says hed be 
happy to pay to unwind the loan amount for the device. Or hed be happy for the full contract 
to be unwound and hed go to another provider. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said he couldnt ask Vodafone to 
merge the device plan and airtime payments together. He said he thought Vodafone warned 
Mr M that two separate direct debits would be set up. He also said Vodafone provided a 
screenshot from its online upgrade process that said it needed three years address history 
for Mr M so it could carry out a quick credit check. He also noted Vodafones website says a 
footprint will be placed on a credit file when credit reference agencies receive a search from 
it. 
Our investigator also saw as part of a commercial credit checking process that Vodafone 
would look at the customers personal and business credit records, but the check wouldnt 
show on the personal record. Our investigator queried this with Vodafone, and it said Mr M 
was down as a sole trader which is why the search was recorded on his personal credit file. 
Our investigator didnt make any recommendations. Mr M didnt agree. He said he wasnt 
shown screenshots with warnings when he made his application. And that the live chat also 
didnt let him know. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I contacted the parties to clarify a few things. Mr M took the agreement out for business 
purposes, which appeared to be for a limited company because he referred to himself as a 
director. This would have affected our power to be able to consider the complaint. But Mr M 
has explained the agreement was taken out for a sole trader business that he has. 
Therefore, while hes not a consumer as defined in the Financial Conduct Authority 
handbook, he can bring the complaint in his sole trader business capacity.
Secondly, I can see Mr M wants us to make sure the same thing doesnt happen to other 
customers. But our role is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimal formality. Im 
looking at the specific circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
Vodafone carried out the search for a regulated fixed sum loan agreement, and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Mr M would like the hard search removed. But Vodafone has explained the hard search is an 
accurate reflection of what happened. And that Mr M would have been warned a search 
would be carried out when he applied for his finance agreement. Ill never know for sure 
whether Mr M was warned or saw that a credit search would be carried out. And Im 
conscious it looks like Vodafone changed its processes with regards to how phones were 
purchased. So Mr M may not have realised a credit search would be carried out. But even 
putting that to one side, I cant see the hard search has caused any significant detriment to 
Mr M. Its an accurate reflection of what happened and is a typical thing to happen when a 
customer applies for a finance agreement. 
Mr M took out the agreement in December 2022 (the hard search was recorded on his credit 
file this month), and hes shown us his credit score went up the following month. Mr M hasnt 
shown us the hard search has caused him any loss or issues, or that its likely to cause any 
issues. Vodafone isnt reporting anything negative on his credit file. 
Mr M has shown us his score went down in February 2023. And hes shown a snippet of his 
credit file summary that shows he entered into an unsecured agreement with Vodafone and 
that it was recorded for that month. But I cant see from the screenshot if anything else 
impacted his score that month. Moreover, Mr M has said he would be willing to pay to 
unwind the agreement. Hes still got the option to settle the agreement, and Id imagine any 
impact of the loan on his credit file would be reduced, if not removed in full if he were to do 
that. 
Taking everything into account, the hard search recorded is an accurate reflection of what 
happened. In any event, I cant see its caused any detriment to Mr M. So I dont find I have 
the grounds to direct Vodafone to remove it. 
Mr M responded to say he wasnt fully made aware Vodafone had changed its process. He 
said he thinks saying it was a quick credit check was misleading. He also wanted to explain 
the hard search didnt show up immediately on his credit file. And that his score dropped 
points as it was carried out. 
Vodafone didnt want to add anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. I appreciate Mr M says he wasnt fully made 
aware of Vodafones new process, and that he thinks referring to a quick credit check is misleading. Vodafone has said it warned Mr M a credit search would be carried out and that 
he was told hed have a separate direct debit set up for the device plan. And its provided 
screenshots of what it says Mr M would have seen. 
Ill never know exactly what Mr M saw but, as I said in my provisional decision, the recording 
of the search is an accurate reflection of what happened. While Mr M says its misleading to 
say a quick credit check was to be carried out, Vodafone ultimately says it did tell him that 
was going to happen. Mr M could have queried this before proceeding if he had any 
concerns. Mr M has resent a summary page of his credit file showing his score went down in 
February 2023. The summary says this is when the loan was added to his credit file. So Im 
not sure the score reducing here is as a result of the hard search. And I cant see if anything 
else has impacted his score that month. In any event, Ive also already explained that if Mr M 
is unhappy with having a loan on his credit file, and if he thinks this is impacting his score, he 
can choose to pay off the loan as he indicated he was prepared to do. 
However, all things considered, the hard search is a true reflection of what happened. Mr M 
hasnt shown us its caused any significant lasting detriment. And while I understand the 
process changed, it looks like Vodafone did give some warning it would carry out a credit 
check. So Im not going to direct Vodafone to remove it or take any other action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman