DRN-2377279
The complaint
S is a company, represented in bringing this complaint by its director, Mr K. S complains that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted access to its account before closing it. And registered a CIFAS 
marker against it. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service.
What happened
S opened a business account with HSBC in July 2019. 
In December 2019 a cheque for just over £260,000 was paid into Ss account using a 
machine in branch. In January 2020 another cheque for just under £390,000 was paid into 
Ss account at a branch.
HSBC were contacted by the banks from which the cheques had been made. They said that 
their customers had been the victims of fraud, the cheques had been forged and S wasnt 
entitled to the money. HSBC placed restrictions on Ss account whilst it investigated what 
had happened. And stopped the cheques from crediting Ss account.
Mr K told HSBC that he didnt know anything about the cheques which were paid into Ss 
account. He explained that S had an expected turnover of £25,000 and usually only dealt in 
much smaller transactions. HSBC didnt accept Mr Ks explanation and gave S notice it 
would close its account. It also placed a CIFAS marker against S. Mr K complained to HSBC 
and said that hed been unable to open a bank account due to the marker and his business 
had suffered financial losses. He also explained that he hadnt been able to provide 
financially for his family.
S through Mr K referred the matter to this service where one of our investigators considered 
it. He thought HSBC hadnt done anything wrong in taking the actions it did. On balance, he 
considered that Mr K was most likely aware of the nature of the cheques paid into Ss 
account. Mr K didnt accept the investigators conclusions, he maintained hed been the 
victim of fraud, and hed suffered a great deal of trouble and upset.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ill deal first with the bank decision to block and review Ss account. All banks in the UK are 
strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business 
relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers accounts. 
HSBC has said that Ss account was blocked to meet these requirements. Having looked at 
all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that HSBC was within its rights to review Ss account 
and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. So, I cant say the bank did 
anything wrong here.
Im satisfied that the cheques paid into Ss account were fraudulent  in the sense that the 
holders of the accounts from which they were drawn didnt authorise them. Their own banks 
investigated them before reaching that conclusion and contacting HSBC. Of itself however, 
that doesnt mean that Mr K was involved or knew about them; its possible to make 
payments to someones bank account without their knowledge and having only the account 
number and sort code.
Before placing a fraud marker against Ss name, HSBC needed to have a reasonable belief 
that a financial crime had been committed and that the evidence was such that the matter 
could be reported to the police. A suspicion or concern isnt enough. So, Ive looked at 
whether HSBC was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had and the 
investigation it carried out, and what the rules say about applying such markers. 
Mr K told HSBC and the investigator he didnt pay the cheques into Ss account. Hes 
consistently said he knows nothing about the cheques. He has suggested that hes been the 
victim of fraud and that an unknown third party got hold of Ss bank account details and paid 
the cheques into the account. 
Ive thought carefully about what hes said. Having done so I think its most unlikely that an 
unknown third party would pay two cheques into Ss account unless they were confident that 
they would be able to withdraw the money or transfer the funds to another account from 
which they could withdraw it. Mr K has told us that he never disclosed Ss online banking 
information to anyone else. And has said that he is the only person in charge of Ss finances 
and aware of the information which is kept locked in a safe at his home. Ive also kept in 
mind that Mr K hasnt reported Ss bank card lost. So, I cant see how an unknown third party 
would be able to access the funds that were paid into Ss account. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, it appears only Mr K wouldve been able to do this.
I also dont think an unknown third party would run the risk of having to wait for the cheques 
to clear before being able to access the funds, which in this case wouldve been four working 
days, during which time Mr K may have discovered Ss account had been compromised.  
And perhaps more significant, do this on two separate occasions weeks apart. 
I note as well that Mr K increased the daily payment limit on Ss account to £100,000 on 12 
December 2019, just eight days before the first fraudulent cheque was paid into Ss account. 
Increasing the daily limit wouldve allowed money to be moved out of Ss account once the 
fraudulent cheques had cleared. Given what Mr K has said about the activity on Ss account 
 that it normally dealt in small transactions, the account hadnt been used much since it was 
opened as the business had just been set up, and he was the only person with access to Ss 
banking information, I think this action is significant. Mr K hasnt offered any explanation for 
why he did this. So, I think this suggests Mr K was most likely expecting the cheques that 
were paid into Ss account in December 2019 and January 2020.
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Mr Ks version of events that he 
knows nothing about the cheques. Taking everything into account even if Mr K didnt pay the 
cheques into Ss account himself, then I think he allowed someone else to do so. 
In the circumstances, I think there wouldve been good grounds to report the events here to 
the police to investigate, and that HSBC was therefore justified in placing a CIFAS marker 
against Ss name. I think it more likely than not that Mr K knew rather more about the account activity than hes told the bank or this service  even if he hasnt directly benefitted 
from that activity. So, I wont be asking HSBC to remove the marker.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Ss account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case, 
HSBC closed Ss account immediately. In my view that was reasonable, given the concerns 
the bank had about how S was operating its account. So, whilst appreciate this caused S 
inconvenience, I cant say HSBC have treated S unfairly when it decided to close its account 
without notice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman