DRN-1676687
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that:
Admiral Insurance (Gibralter) Limited (Admiral ) wont pay for damage to machinery 
on a trailer he was towing when he had an accident and claimed on his motor 
insurance policy with Admiral; and
the claims handler he spoke to at Admiral had a poor knowledge of the policy terms 
and conditions.
 
He is represented in bringing this complaint by a friend, Mr L. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr A was driving his van, which was insured with Admiral. He was towing a 
trailer on which was loaded machinery he had hired from a third party (TP). He lost control 
of the van which crashed. The van and the machinery were damaged, and he claimed on his 
policy with Admiral.
Admiral settled his claim for the van. However, it wouldnt cover the costs for damage to the 
trailer or the machinery. It pointed to the following exclusion in the policy terms:
General Exceptions to Your Cover  
4. Any damage, loss of use or any other indirect loss to any property being carried by, 
loaded onto or unloaded from your vehicle.
Mr A complained to Admiral. He pointed to another provision of the policy:
Section 4: Liability to other people:
1a. using your vehicle
You will be covered for everything you are legally responsible to pay due to an accident 
involving your vehicle and:
someone else is killed or injured
someone elses property is damaged  third party property damage losses are limited 
to £5,000,000 per occurrence per policy.
 
This cover also applies to an accident involving a single trailer, caravan or broken-down 
vehicle you may be towing (as long as you hold the correct driving licence entitlement to do 
so).As he was liable to TP for the damage to its machinery, he thought Admiral should cover the 
damage under this policy term.
Admiral acknowledged that the policy could have been more clearly worded. But it said the 
policy advised customers to read the General Exceptions section. So it wouldnt change its 
mind. Mr A complained to us.
Our investigator said he didnt think the exclusion Admiral had quoted applied in the 
circumstances of this complaint. He said vehicle as defined in the policy meant the van, not 
the trailer. The machinery was loaded on the trailer, not the van. So Admiral had applied this 
exclusion incorrectly. He invited Admiral to reconsider Mr As claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
Admiral responded to say that it thought the following exclusion in the policy was more 
relevant in the circumstances:
5. What is not covered
any damage to property belonging to, or held in trust by, or in the charge or control of 
the policyholder or any person entitled to drive on the current Certificate of Motor 
Insurance.
 
It pointed out that the Road Traffic Acts made it clear that a motor policy didnt have to 
provide cover for the liability of a person for property in his custody or control, such as the 
hired machinery. The above policy provision merely made this clear. 
The investigator accepted what Admiral was now saying, and didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld. He agreed that at first sight, the provision Mr A relied on 
seemed to cover the circumstances of his claim.
However, the exclusion Admiral was now relying on was part of the same section of the 
policy  Section 4: liability to other people, and was on the same page as the other 
provision.
All of Section 4 had to be read as a whole. Taken as a whole, he thought the policy terms 
were clear and the damage to the hired machinery wasnt covered by the policy. So he didnt 
recommend that Admiral needed to take any further action.
Mr L responded to say, in summary, that it was unfair that Admiral should be allowed to 
decline the claim on a different ground to the one it had originally relied on. And the 
investigator hadnt commented on this second ground before Admiral raised it.
Admiral had acknowledged previously that the policy wording was confusing, and this 
seemed to be the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked the investigator to check how Mr A came to select this policy. Mr L said Mr A had 
bought the policy via an online search engine. He was under the impression from reading 
the policy before taking it out that he was covered for the vehicle and anything he was 
towing, as it wasnt clear in the policy that it was excluded. So it seems Mr A wasnt advised, either by Admiral or by anyone such as a broker, that the 
policy met his requirements. He decided it did from his own reading of the policy wording. So 
I need to decide, on the basis of the policy wording, if this was a reasonable decision for him 
to make.
The relevant wording is all set out on the same page of the policy, page 9, in two columns. 
The heading Section 4: Liability to other people runs across both columns. In the first 
column is the wording Mr A relies on:
1a. using your vehicle
You will be covered for everything you are legally responsible to pay due to an accident 
involving your vehicle and:
someone else is killed or injured
someone elses property is damaged  third party property damage losses are limited 
to £5,000,000 per occurrence per policy.
 
This cover also applies to an accident involving a single trailer, caravan or broken-down 
vehicle you may be towing (as long as you hold the correct driving licence entitlement to do 
so).
But alongside it in the second column is the exclusion Admiral now relies on:
5. What is not covered


any damage to property belonging to, or held in trust by, or in the charge or control of 
the policyholder or any person entitled to drive on the current Certificate of Motor 
Insurance.



 
The first wording sets out the general principle of what the policy is covering  Mr As legal 
liability following an accident involving the insured vehicle. However, this is not absolute, and 
the limitations are in my view clearly listed alongside. The limitation quoted above makes it 
clear that other property of Mr A, or property like the hired machinery which is under his 
control, isnt covered by the policy.
Given that all the information is on the same page of the policy, and is in my view displayed 
sufficiently clearly, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr A to come to the view that the policy 
would cover damage to hired equipment being towed by his van. So I cant say it is 
unreasonable for Admiral to decline his claim for the damage to the hired machinery.
That said, I dont think Admiral handled Mr As claim well. He says the claims handler he 
spoke to had a poor knowledge of the policy terms, and didnt know where to find the 
relevant provisions in the policy booklet.
Admiral excused this by saying this was an uncommon type of claim; handlers dealt with 
different policies and couldnt be expected to know all the policies completely. Where a claims handler was unsure, they were told to refer the matter to Admirals underwriting team, 
which is what happened here.
I think this is a reasonable response. So I dont uphold this part of Mr As complaint. 
However, I would expect the underwriting team to have a proper knowledge of the policy 
terms, and to have given a correct reason for not upholding the claim in respect of the hired 
machinery. 
Instead, Admiral issued a final response to Mr As claim which referred to a general 
exception which the investigator pointed didnt apply in the circumstances of this claim. 
Because of this, the claims process has been extended, and Mr A has suffered additional 
distress and inconvenience.
While I cant reasonably require Admiral to pay Mr As claim for the damage to the hired 
machinery, I do think its fair and reasonable that it compensates him for the additional 
distress and inconvenience its poor claims handling caused him.
Admiral has already paid Mr A £80 as compensation for unnecessary phone calls he had to 
make, and trouble and upset it caused him. I think it should pay him a further £170 as 
compensation for this additional distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
I consider Admiral should increase the compensation payable to Mr A to £250, inclusive of 
what it has already paid him, as set out more fully below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Admiral Insurance (Gibralter) 
Limited to pay Mr A a further £170, in addition to the £80 it has already paid him, as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor claims handling has caused him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman