DRN-4291088
The complaint
Mr M complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline a claim made under his 
furniture insurance policy and about delays in the processing of the claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr M has been represented in making this complaint by a family member, but for ease of 
reference Ill refer below to Mr M providing information to us etc.
Mr M had a five year insurance policy underwritten by Amtrust to cover two leather sofas. 
The policy was purchased in April 2018 and expired in April 2023.
In late February 2023, Mr M made a claim. He said a family member - a child with autism  
had damaged the sofas when he was left unattended briefly. He said the child had got hold 
of a compass and slashed both sofas.
Amtrust sent three different engineers to assess the claim. There appears to have been 
some confusion about whether the repairs could be carried out in the home or would require 
the sofas to be taken to a workshop.
Mr M says he chased Amtrust several times to find out what was happening on the claim. He 
says that on a number of occasions he was promised a call back, which didnt in fact 
happen.
Mr M made a complaint to Amtrust about the delays. In May 2023, they told him they hadnt 
been able to resolve the issues hed raised and referred him to our service.
In late June 2023, whilst we were investigating the complaint about the delays, Amtrust told 
Mr M the claim would be declined because the evident damage to the sofas was not 
consistent with Mr Ms account of how the damage had occurred.
Amtrust consented to our investigator looking into both the original complaint about the 
delays and the decision to decline the claim  with which Mr M did not agree.
Our investigator thought there had been unnecessary and avoidable delays in the handling 
of the claim. And she asked Amtrust to pay £150 to Mr M in compensation for the trouble 
and upset this had caused. 
However, she didnt think Amtrust had acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
the claim.
Amtrust accepted our investigators view. But Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman. He wants Amtrust to accept the claim and either replace or pay for the 
replacement of the sofas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to go into any great detail on the delays in the claim handling. In short, Amtrust 
have accepted there were avoidable delays and things should have been resolved sooner. 
Ill come to what this means in terms of compensation for Mr M in the Putting things right 
section below.
It's important to be clear about why Amtrust have declined this claim. They say thats 
because Mr Ms account of the events isnt consistent with the damage to the sofas.
The policy says malicious damage isnt covered  and Mr M has made the point that 
damage caused by a child with severe autism should not be regarded as malicious.
I agree entirely, but its irrelevant - because thats not why Amtrust are declining the claim. 
Theyve had technical experts look at the damage to the sofas. Their advice is that the clean 
and straight cuts in the leather of the sofas - which go deep into the foam under the leather  
could not have been caused by a compass.
Mr M told Amtrust that the compass was one he used in his work as an accountant. The 
implication was that the vertical edge might not be blunt, as it would be in a normal 
mathematical compass.
When Amtrust asked to see the compass, Mr M said it had been thrown away. He said this 
was to protect the child. I assume Mr Ms residence has sharp objects (knives for example) 
that are kept out of reach of the child. Its not entirely clear why similar precautions couldnt 
have been taken with the compass.
After our investigator gave her view on this complaint, Mr M sent us photographs of what he 
said was a similar object to the one used to slash the sofas. He said Amtrust should take 
that as evidence rather than needing to see his own compass.
The photographs provided were of what appears to be a circle-cutting and drawing tool used 
in dress making. Thats not entirely consistent with what Mr M told Amtrust when he made 
the claim. 
In any event, the experts view on this case is that the damage to the sofas could not have 
been caused by a compass. The same logic would apply to the tool in the photographs Mr M 
sent. Its not at all clear how a child could have caused the damage which is now evident 
using either a compass or the dress-making tool.
In short, given the experts views which were available to Amtrust, I cant reasonably 
conclude that theyve acted unreasonably or unfairly in declining Mr Ms claim.
Putting things right
Amtrust have admitted that the claim should have been resolved more quickly. Its also clear 
to me that Mr M had to chase Amtrust on several occasions to find out what progress had 
been made. On occasion, he was promised more information which was not in fact 
forthcoming.
Mr M was caused some minor inconvenience in having to contact Amtrust on several 
occasions about the claim. And it was not doubt frustrating that Amtrust couldnt provide clear information about what was happening within a reasonable timeframe.
The decision to decline the claim was notified to Mr M in Late June 2023, some four months 
or so after he made the claim. Whilst Amtrust could not have resolved the claim immediately 
 and were entitled to time to consider the information provided by Mr M and by their experts 
- theyve admitted that things could have been resolved sooner.
Given the nature and length of the avoidable delays in the processing of the claim, I agree 
with our investigator that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for Mr Ms trouble and 
upset.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman