DRN-3664765
The complaint
Mr G is complaining about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled a claim he made under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) for a payment he made on his 
Barclays credit card for a fridge that later became faulty.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr G bought a fridge from a third-party company  who I shall refer to as C. 
He paid part of the cost of the fridge on his Barclays credit card.
Mr G says that, around 18 months later, the fridge became faulty so he contacted C to ask 
that it fixes or replaces the fridge. C responded to say that, as the fault materialised more 
than six months after Mr G acquired the fridge, he needed to provide an independent report 
showing the fault was present at the point of supply or that the presence of the fault meant  
the fridge wasnt durable. 
Mr G didnt agree that he had to do this, so, in August 2020, he contacted Barclays to make 
a Section 75 claim. Barclays sent Mr G a message to say it would take up to 12 weeks to 
respond to the claim, but it would keep him updated. Mr G contacted Barclays a number of 
times after this to request an update, but Barclays said there was a backlog and it would 
review his complaint when it could.
In November 2020 Barclays rejected Mr Gs claim as it said the cash price of the goods had 
to be more than £100, but it said Mr G had only paid £22.19 for the fridge. So it didnt think 
he was eligible. Mr G responded to complain about this outcome. He said the fridge cost 
£239.99 and hed part paid this on his Barclays credit card, paying the remaining balance 
with the use of loyalty points from C. He maintained his Section 75 claim should be upheld.
Mr G contacted Barclays a number of times over the next month to chase an update on his 
complaint. On 16 December 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr G to apologise for the delays and 
said it would pay him £100 in compensation. Mr G says he didnt receive this letter. It wrote 
to him again on 29 December 2020 and apologised again for the handling of the Section 75 
claim. It refunded the £239.99 for the fridge. It also paid £25 for wasted food and a further 
£25 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought Barclays offer was fair. Mr G didnt agree, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Barclays compensation offer is fair and Ill now explain why.
I should first say, Im aware Ive summarised Mr Gs complaint in a lot less detail than hes 
set out. However, I assure Mr G Ive read and considered everything hes provided. In this 
decision, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issues. I mean no discourtesy by 
this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Mr Gs complaint essentially rests around Barclays handling of a Section 75 claim he made 
for a fridge that later became faulty. Mr G paid for the fridge on his Barclays credit card. 
Section 75 sets out that, in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Barclays is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into Mr Gs 
contract with C that the fridge it supplied must be of satisfactory quality. Theres no dispute 
that there was a fault with the fridge, but the issue is whether the fault was present at the 
time of sale, and whether that fault made the fridge of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. Ive also considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be 
problems such as those that Mr G experienced in a fridge of this price  in short is the fridge 
sufficiently durable.
In deciding whether this fridge was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price and its age. In this case, Mr G paid £239.99 for the 
fridge and it was new at the point of supply. 
Mr G is unhappy that he was asked to provide an independent report. But it was his 
responsibility to demonstrate that the fridge was of unsatisfactory quality  i.e. it wasnt Bs 
responsibility to show it wasnt. Mr G has said he wouldnt expect a fridge to stop working 
after 18 months. But I dont think this was an overly expensive fridge. Im also conscious that 
Mr G hasnt provided anything to show what the actual fault with the fridge was. And, given 
the length of time that had passed, I dont think it was unreasonable for C to say it was for 
Mr G to show what the actual fault was. 
The fridge was 18 months old at the time Mr G says it stopped working. So its reasonable to 
say that it would have suffered some wear and tear in that time. The fault could have been 
minor or major. And without knowing what was actually causing the issue, I dont think 
theres enough to show that the fridge was of unsatisfactory quality.
Given this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to have initially declined Mr Gs 
claim, although it did so for the wrong reasons. Barclays has subsequently settled Mr Gs 
claim in full and refunded the amount he paid (plus a further £25 for consequential losses) 
which I think was more than reasonable as, for the reasons I set out, I dont think Mr G has 
actually demonstrated there was a breach of contract.
Mr G has raised a number of concerns about the way Barclays has handled his claim and 
complaint. But, in total, Barclays has paid Mr G £389.99 in settlement of the claim and for 
the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. I think this is more than reasonable. So I dont 
think it needs to pay anything further. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered Mr G £389.99 in settlement of his Section 75 claim and 
for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. I 
understand its already paid this. So I dont think it needs to pay anything further. But it 
should pay this to Mr G directly if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Guy MitchellOmbudsman