DRN-3915928
The complaint
Mr Us complaint is that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) acted unfairly in the way 
it decided to settle his claim.
What happened
Around October 2021, Mr U notified Churchill about a road traffic incident hed been involved 
in with a third party and advised that hed instructed an accident management company to 
handle the claim. Mr Us understanding was that Churchill wouldnt carry out any action 
regarding the claim without notifying him first.
Shortly after, Mr U found out that Churchill had settled the claim on a 50/50 liability basis. 
Mr U complained to the insurer because it had done so without notifying him. He also felt 
that Churchill hadnt investigated the incident properly, as it hadnt requested further 
information.
In its response, Churchill explained that there wasnt enough evidence to prove either 
parties version of events, so it agreed with the third-party insurer to settle the claim on a 
50/50 liability basis. Churchill added that it had acted in line with the policy terms. The 
insurer recognised that it misadvised Mr U during its conversation with him in October and 
awarded him £250 compensation. The insurer also reviewed additional information about the 
incident that Mr U provided and concluded that its claim decision wouldnt change.
Mr U says he returned the compensation cheque Churchill sent and escalated his complaint 
to this service. Our investigator decided that Churchill had decided the claim fairly and that 
its compensation award was reasonable. Mr U doesnt agree  he says that Churchill 
shouldnt be able to disregard his rights by relying on the policy terms. He adds that Churchill 
didnt consider all the evidence regarding the claim incident and submits that the third-party 
insurer accepted full liability. 
Mr U requested a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not within my remit to decide liability on a claim. I can only decide on whether Churchill 
has acted fairly in the way it has handled this claim and, if not, then I can ask the insurer to 
review its claim decision. And to do so Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy 
and all other information submitted by Mr U and Churchill. 
The terms of Mr Us policy set out that Churchill can decide the claim in a way it deems 
appropriate. Mr U thinks Churchills decision was influenced by the third-party insurers 
notification that it would commence legal action. Churchill disagrees and says that theres no 
evidence to prove either parties side of what happened during the incident. Ive reviewed the 
information regarding the incident, and Im satisfied that Churchills stance on the claim is 
reasonable. In order to justify that the third party is solely at fault, Churchill would require 
persuasive evidence that could potentially be sustained in court - if the matter was indeed 
taken that far. 
Moreover, one of Churchills goals is to keep costs down by avoiding legal proceedings 
where possible, and where the insurer concludes that it would be unlikely that it would win if 
the matter went to court. I dont find this to be unreasonable either, so I dont think Churchill 
unfairly decided the claim. 
Mr U is unhappy that Churchill didnt notify him of its decision beforehand or contact him for 
more information, particularly as he understood that the accident management company was 
handling the matter. The terms do not require Churchill to consult Mr U as part of making its 
decision on the claim. As I explained, the terms allow Churchill to settle the claim in a way it 
sees fit. Mr U thinks the insurer is using the terms to override his rights. But Mr Us policy 
isnt designed to protect his rights, nor does it require that Churchill decides a claim in a way 
that favours him. The policy is designed to indemnify Mr U for any insured losses, as well as 
cover the costs of any insured liabilities.
I can see that Churchill reviewed further information from Mr U and concluded that this didnt 
change its claim decision. I think Churchill acted fairly by providing Mr U with the opportunity 
to submit information that could affect its claim decision. So I think Churchill did enough to 
review all the available information about the claim. 
Mr U recently told us that the third-party insurer has since accepted full liability for this claim. 
We asked Mr U for information to support this submission. Mr U sent us some documents 
that he says were provided by the accident management company. But theres nothing Ive 
seen in these documents that persuades me that liability has been accepted in full by the 
third-party insurer. Because of this, I dont find it reasonable to ask Churchill to review its 
claim decision again.
Its not disputed by Churchill that it misadvised Mr U during the initial call about the incident. 
Churchill indicated that it wouldnt act on the claim without notifying Mr U. This was incorrect 
 Churchill, as Mr Us insurer will need to deal with all claims regardless of whether an 
accident management company is involved. Churchill shouldve also kept Mr U updated 
about the claim.
Although I would usually look to award compensation because of the impact of such an 
error, I can see that Churchill already put forward a compensation payment. The insurer 
issued a £250 payment to Mr U, which is higher than what I wouldve considered awarding. 
Although Mr U didnt accept this at the time, he may contact Churchill directly, should he now 
choose to accept this amount. 
In summary, I think that Churchill acted reasonably when it chose to settle the claim on a 
50/50 liability basis. The insurer has taken fair steps to resolve Mr Us concerns, by making 
£250 compensation award and reviewing further information from Mr U to determine if its 
claim decision was fair. So I wont be asking Churchill to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that U K Insurance Limited has acted fairly, so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman