DRN-2390242
The complaint
Mr D said that in late 2008 he took out three annuity policies with Aviva. It had contacted him 
in relation to one of them as it had been included as part of a regulator directed review of 
non-advised sales. He said the review should include all three policies.
What happened
Aviva said Mr D had three annuity policies with them. Only one was included in its regulator 
review. The outcome of the review was that he hadnt lost out. He was told the other two 
were excluded as he received advice on one and the other was under the financial limit for 
review so was too small to be included. Mr D didnt agree and said he hadnt received any 
advice. He wanted all policies reviewed but in particular the one with the highest value.
Aviva accepted there was delay in advising Mr D of the outcome of its review and he had to 
call several times. It sent him £50 in the light of this. However further investigations of 
supporting records showed that Mr D had signed forms for each annuity confirming he had 
received financial advice. So it said none of the annuities shouldve been included in the 
reviews. Its review of one was a mistake.
The investigator said he could see that Mr D had made a previous complaint to this service 
about the annuities he purchased. This complaint doesnt cover the same issues but the 
issue of their inclusion in the regulator review of non-advised annuities. 
As the paperwork showed Mr D had received advice for all three annuities it was outside the 
scope of the regulator review and Aviva had made a mistake in contacting him about one of 
them. This mustve caused inconvenience. He thought the £50 already offered in relation to 
delays in dealing with the initial complaint was broadly within the range of what he wouldve 
expected for making an error in relation to one policy. So he thought Aviva had dealt with Mr 
Ds complaint fairly and reasonably.
Mr D didnt agree. He said he wasnt happy with the decision solely relating to the one policy 
considered. He said he didnt receive financial advice on the settlement of this or the other 
policies as his adviser was ill at the time and couldnt have given any advice. If the forms 
showed he took advice there must be an error. He didnt think hed been treated fairly. He 
wanted a review of the policy that was the largest in value (which wasnt the one included 
mistakenly in the regulator review).
The investigator responded to say that all three annuity application included details of his 
financial adviser and confirmed he had sought advice. Aviva had relied on that information in 
dealing with him. Where a mistake is made he should be put back in the position he 
shouldve been in had a mistake not been made. That would mean that none of his annuities 
was included in the review instead of mistakenly including one of them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The provisions set out by the regulator for the scope of the review of annuities are clear that 
it relates to non-advised sales of pension annuities. Advised sales of pension annuities are 
excluded. I have seen the completed forms for all three annuities. These ask Did you seek 
advice from a financial adviser about your options. All three forms are ticked yes and are 
signed and dated by Mr D.
Mr D says he didnt take advice and therefore his annuities should be within the review no 
matter what the application forms said. 
But the information presented to Aviva, which it would have relied on in dealing with his 
applications said he took advice. It had no way of knowing that he hadnt received any 
advice due to the health situation of the adviser. It also said it paid the relevant commission 
over to the adviser. 
The application forms were completed and signed by Mr D and it was his responsibility to 
make sure he was providing correct information in signing those forms. So, even if he didnt 
actually take advice, Aviva couldnt have known that and I cannot reasonably make it review 
annuities that were provided on the basis he had financial advice. So I think Aviva acted 
reasonably in dealing with his applications as though he had received advice. 
That means that none of the annuities should have been included in the regulator review.
However Aviva made a mistake in including one policy in the review and this has resulted in 
Mr D having to spend time chasing replies and making calls. I think this was a mistake in 
their management of that annuity which caused distress and inconvenience. But for that 
error Mr D would not have spent time chasing Aviva and making calls. But in the light of the 
impact on Mr D I think the amount of the exiting payment of £50.00 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and think that Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman