DRN-2939973
The complaint
Mr P and Ms H have complained about the service they received from a mortgage broker, 
Margaret McIntosh (who I will refer to as MM). Mr P has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
In about March 2020 Mr P and Ms H wanted to purchase a property and found one they 
wanted to go ahead with. They were put in contact with MM, a mortgage broker, who told 
them an agreement in principle had been issued by a lender. 
Due to the pandemic, Mr P and Ms H had to put things on hold but in July 2020 their offer on 
another property was accepted. MM advised them they could afford the mortgage and to 
enable the matter to proceed, charged them a broker fee of £850.
Mr P says that MM told him the mortgage had been approved and finances were in place. 
However, this wasnt true, and there had never been any agreement in principle nor any 
mortgage application. The purchase fell through.
Mr P complained to MM but had no response. He and Ms H brought the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. After doing so, with some effort, Mr P was able to get MM to 
refund the broker fee of £850. Our investigator also thought an award of compensation of 
£300 was appropriate, particularly as MM failed to engage with our service in relation to the 
complaint.
Mr P and Ms H accepted this but MM didnt respond, so the matter has been referred to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Mr P has said and seen the messages between him and MM, Im 
satisfied that he and Ms H werent provided with the service they paid for. Furthermore, MM 
has failed to engage with the complaint process, contrary to Financial Conduct Authority 
regulations. I find this to be unacceptable.
No explanation has been given by MM, either for her failure to apply for a mortgage on 
behalf of Mr P and Ms H, or to respond to the complaint. Although the broker fee was 
eventually refunded, this was after considerable effort on the part of Mr P. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied an award of compensation should be made for the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr P and Ms H. I agree with the investigator that an award of £300 is appropriate. 
If Mr P and Ms H accept my decision, it becomes legally binding on both them and MM, and 
is enforceable in court. I hope this final decision is not ignored by MM, but if it is, Im afraid 
Mr P and Ms H may have no alternative but to enforce payment through the court system.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I order Margaret 
McIntosh to pay compensation of £300 to Mr P and Ms H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman