DRN-3364543
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt apply a payment holiday to his account
in a timely manner which resulted in missed payments being reported by Shawbrook to his
credit file, or that Shawbrook didnt then correct his credit file as quickly as they should have
done.
What happened
Mr O has a loan with Shawbrook that was repaid by Mr O without significant incident until
February 2020. Towards the end of March 2020, Mr O contacted Shawbrook and asked for a
payment holiday on his loan account as he was struggling to meet the repayments because
of the financial impact of Covid-19.
While the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) were close to issuing temporary guidance
surrounding such payment holidays, this guidance hadnt yet been published, and as such
the Shawbrook agent that Mr O spoke with wasnt able to agree to Mr Os request at that
time, although they did log Mr Os request and promise Mr O that he would receive a call
back from Shawbrook about it.
On 30 March 2020, a loan payment was taken by direct debit from Mr Os current account.
Mr O called Shawbrook about this as he couldnt afford to make the payment at that time. Mr
O was advised to claim the payment back via his bank, and was later advised that his loan
repayment direct debit would be cancelled so that no further payments would be taken while
Mr O waited for the payment holiday he had requested to be approved.
The FCA published their guidance on temporary at the start of April 2020, and the guidance
came into effect on 9 April 2020. However, when Mr O contacted Shawbrook at the end of
April 2020 he was told that his requested payment holiday still hadnt been approved.
Shawbrook then took another loan payment by direct debit from Mr Os current account on
30 April 2020, even though theyd promised Mr O previously that this wouldnt take place.
Again, Mr O was advised by Shawbrook to reclaim this payment via his bank.
In May 2020, Mr O contacted Shawbrook again because hed noticed that Shawbrook were
reporting missed payments on his loan account to his credit file. This was of particular
concern to Mr O as his mortgage was coming up for renewal and he was worried that the
adverse reports that Shawbrook were making on his credit file would impact the mortgage
renewal rate hed be able to obtain.
The Shawbrook advisor that Mr O spoke with confirmed that Mr Os payment holiday request
still hadnt been approved, but that when it was, Shawbrook would backdate the payment
holiday to when he first made the request and amend his credit file accordingly, although this
could take up to 30 days. Mr O didnt consider this to be satisfactory, and so he raised a
complaint with Shawbrook, highlighting the urgency of the matter in consideration of his
upcoming mortgage renewal.
Shortly afterwards, Mr Os payment holiday request was approved, and a three-month
payment holiday was applied to his account retrospectively from when Mr O first requested
the payment holiday in March.
A few days later, Mr O spoke with Shawbrook and was advised that the payment holiday had
been applied to his account and that his credit file would be updated accordingly, with the
missed payments reporting bring removed. However, despite Mr O chasing this matter, it
wasnt until 6 June 2020 that Shawbrook requested for his credit file to be amended.
Following Shawbrook making this request, Shawbrook responded to Mr Os complaint and
acknowledged that they could have processed his payment holiday and credit file
amendment requests more quickly. Shawbrook apologised to Mr O for this and made a
payment of £100 to compensate Mr O for the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with Shawbrooks response and felt that Shawbrooks reporting of
missed payments to his credit file had led to him receiving a less favourable mortgage
renewal rate than he should have received. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they felt that it couldnt be definitively
determined that Mr O would have received a better mortgage renewal rate had Shawbrook
not made the reporting to his credit file that they did, and they also felt that the response that
Shawbrook had issued to Mr Os complaint, including the payment of £100 compensation,
already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place. So, they didnt
uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 February 2022 as follows:
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who 
were experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts 
because of financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA 
guidance included that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of 
these payment holidays to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so 
that an eligible consumer who benefited for such a payment holiday didnt have their 
credit file impacted by doing so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the 
FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had 
been able to meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that 
time, but who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments 
on their credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
In this instance, Mr O had maintained the repayments on his loan account without 
significant incident and so Im satisfied that the was an eligible consumer and was 
entitled to benefit from the FCA prescribed three-month payment holiday on his loan 
account.However, its notable that Mr O first applied for this payment holiday at the end of 
March 2020, which was before the payment holiday guidance was published by the 
FCA and before that guidance came into force on 9 April 2020.
Shawbrook have confirmed that they received a large number of requests for these 
payment holidays, and I think its important to acknowledge that Shawbrook, like 
many businesses, were themselves struggling to adapt to the unique pressures 
brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic at that time, which included reduced staff 
numbers and the logistical issues arising from the sudden need to have as many 
available staff as possible working from home.
That being said, its notable that Shawbrook didnt apply the payment holiday to Mr 
Os loan account until mid-May 2020, which was over six weeks from when Mr O had 
first requested the payment holiday and over five weeks from when the FCA had 
published their temporary guidance mandating such payment holidays.
And, while it was the case that Shawbrook backdated the payment holiday to when 
Mr O first requested it, its difficult not to feel that Mr Os request for a payment 
holiday should have been treated with more urgency by Shawbrook, given the 
frequency with which Mr O was chasing Shawbrook about this and his reasonable 
concerns about his upcoming mortgage renewal.
Additionally, once Shawbrook had approved and backdated Mr Os payment holiday 
request its evident that it took a further three weeks for Shawbrook to then submit 
the appropriate credit file amendments to the credit reference agencies. And again, 
considering Mr Os position at that time, and the obvious concerns he had about the 
state of his credit file which he repeatedly informed Shawbrook about, its difficult not 
to conclude that Shawbrook should have acted more quickly in this regard, even in 
consideration of the operational difficulties which Shawbrook themselves may have 
been facing at that time.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate that Shawbrook were themselves 
affected by Covid-19, I dont feel that the payment of £100 compensation to Mr O 
takes sufficient account of the impact of Shawbrooks delays in processing Mr Os 
payment holiday request and correcting his credit file, which Im satisfied was a 
cause of distress and inconvenience for Mr O given his circumstances at that time, 
and which was compounded by other factors, such as Shawbrook taking a payment 
against the loan in April 2020 when theyd previously advised Mr O that this wouldnt 
take place.
As such, my provisional decision here will be that I am upholding this complaint in Mr 
Os favour and instructing Shawbrook to make a further payment of £200 to Mr O, 
taking the total amount of compensation payable to him to £300.
Im aware that Mr O feels that an even higher amount of compensation should be 
warranted here, on the basis that the missed payments being reported to his credit 
file incorrectly by Shawbrook were present when his mortgage was due for renewal, 
and that the presence of these missed payments on his credit file resulted in him 
gaining a less favourable interest rate on his mortgage renewal than should have 
been the case.
I can appreciate Mr Os concerns here, but there can be many reasons why a 
mortgage provider offers the renewal rate that it does, and Mr O hasnt provided this 
service with any documents or information that I feel allows me to reasonably 
conclude that Shawbrooks reporting of the missed payments on his credit file was the sole reason that his mortgage renewal rate was higher than it should have been. 
And as such, I dont feel that I can fairly uphold this aspect of Mr Os complaint.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr O and Shawbrook the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Shawbrook confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Mr O did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue my final decision on the same basis as outlined above 
in my provisional decision, and I can confirm that my final decision will be that I uphold this 
complaint in Mr Os favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Shawbrook must make a further compensation payment of £200 to Mr O, taking the total 
amount of compensation payable to £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman