DRN-3682751
The complaint
Mr E complains Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services (Black Horse) 
supplied him with a car that he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2015, Mr E entered into a 49 month personal contract purchase agreement (PCP) 
for a new car. The cars cash price was around £35,000 and he was required to pay monthly 
instalments of £483 followed by an optional final payment of £11,436. The agreement ended 
around June 2019.
In August 2021, Mr E said there was an issue with the cars clutch and flywheel and he had 
to pay around £1,800 for it to be repaired. Later in January 2022, faults were found to the 
pump and braking system. He paid around £1,600 for the repair.
Mr E complained to Black Horse that due to the above faults, the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at supply. He said he had been told by the repair garage that when the car was 
serviced at 40,000 miles, certain parts werent lubricated which contributed to some of the 
faults reported. 
Black Horse didnt uphold the complaint. They said there was no evidence these faults were 
present at the cars supply. They said as the car had been in Mr Es possession for over six 
years and had travelled in excess of 127,000 miles, the faults were due to general wear and 
tear. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr E referred the complaint to our service and told us that 
there was also an issue with the bumper and it was repaired at a cost of around £1,200. Our 
investigator reached similar findings as Black Horse. They concluded there was no evidence 
the faults were present or developing at the point of sale. Mr E disagreed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint, Ill explain why.
Im aware Mr E has raised a number of issues in relation to this agreement. However in this 
decision, I will only be considering whether the car provided to Mr E was of satisfactory 
quality at supply. 
Mr E acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. Black Horse was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc. 
Mr E was supplied with a brand new car so it would be reasonable to expect the quality of it 
to be higher than a more well used one and it would be free from defects and for a significant 
amount of time.
Ive reviewed the job cards and information provided by Mr E including the messages from 
the repair garage. Based on this evidence, its clear the car experienced a number of faults 
including issues with the clutch, flywheel, braking system, pump and bumper, etc. Although I 
accept that to be the case, I must decide whether these faults were present or developing at 
the point of supply. As mentioned above, satisfactory quality also covers durability which 
means that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of 
time.
In this case, I note when the first fault was reported in August 2021 (the clutch and flywheel), 
the car had travelled over 120, 800 miles and it had been in Mr Es possession for over six 
years. By the time of the subsequent repairs in January and March 2022, the car had 
travelled over 127,700 and 130,700 miles respectively. 
Given the significant number of miles Mr E managed to cover and when the faults were 
reported, Im not persuaded he wouldve been able to do so if the faults were present and/or 
developing at supply. I dont find it wholly unreasonable that parts of the car needed to be 
repaired when they did. I find the car was durable.
Ive considered the information provided by Mr E, the internet research and the comments 
from what appears to be an online forum which outlines faults with the braking system. 
Having reviewed it, Im not persuaded the comments sufficiently demonstrates it was an 
inherent manufacturing fault in this case. I say this because it wasnt specific to the car 
supplied to Mr E, nor had the writers of such comments inspected the car or known of its 
history. 
I consider car parts such as the clutch, flywheel, brake pads and pump to be serviceable 
parts of the car meaning it may need to be repaired or replaced during its lifetime so I dont 
find it unreasonable Mr E had to arrange for such repairs when he did. 
Im aware of Mr Es comments about the alleged unsatisfactory service when the car was 
serviced at 40,000 miles and the comments of the repair garage. However when deciding on 
this case, I need to determine whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied in June 2015. For the reasons already explained above, I find it was. 
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr E. I find 
the cars faults were most likely due to wear and tear through use of the car. So I wont be 
asking Black Horse to reimburse Mr E for the cost of the repairs or any other losses hes 
incurred as a result of the faults.I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my outcome. Based on the information and 
evidence hes provided, its clear he feels strongly about the matter but I hope he accepts my 
findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman