DRN-4392289
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Y contacted his insurance broker in June 2021 to query what cover his policy provided 
when driving in Europe as well as in Turkey. As a result of his query, he says Calpe 
cancelled his policy. He didnt think this was fair. In addition to not being insured he says he 
lost one years no-claims bonus, which increased the cost of subsequent insurance cover. Mr 
Y says he paid premiums that were unused and would like a refund. 
In its final complaint response Calpe says Mr Y contacted his broker to request a Green 
Card as he intended driving to Turkey. It says Turkey isnt an EU member and cover isnt 
provided by his policy. It also refers to the endorsements within Mr Ys terms and conditions. 
These say trips abroad are limited to a period of 30 days up to a maximum of 90 days per 
policy period.
Calpe says that as Mr Y intended removing his vehicle from the countries applicable, and for 
a period in excess of the permitted timescales, it is entitled to cancel the policy. It refers to its 
policy terms that say the right to cancel can be invoked where there is a known breach of 
any policy term or endorsement that presents an unacceptable risk to the underwriters. 
Calpe says it contacted Mr Y to confirm his policy would cancel on 23 June 2023.
Mr Y didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says Mr Y intended to breach his policy terms 
by driving to Turkey, though Europe for the period he stated. Calpe had the right to rely on 
its policy terms to cancel his policy as a result. She says Mr Y has received a letter 
confirming he had one years no-claims in place. But its for his current insurer to consider 
any refund that may be due. 
In a subsequent response our investigator clarified that Mr Ys policy doesnt provide a 
premium refund where cancellation occurs after eight months has elapsed. This meant Mr Y 
wasnt due a refund.  
Mr Y didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read the webchat between Mr Y and his insurance broker. Mr Y begins by saying hes 
driving from the UK to Turkey and asks for a green card. He asks if there is a limitation for 
the total time he can be abroad. The agent tells him hes covered on a third-party only basis 
in the EU and cannot travel for more than 30 days at a time. Mr Y queries this as he thought 
all insurance policies covered three months driving in Europe. 
In response to Mr Ys comment, the agent says that trips to the EU are on a temporary 
basis, and he isnt covered for travel lasting longer than 30 days at a time. The discussion 
continued as Mr Y felt his policy allowed a longer period. 
Mr Y tells his broker that he intends staying in the EU for four days and then Turkey for 90 
days. The agent makes a mistake and says Turkey is in the EU, which Mr Y corrects. The 
agent then says cover isnt provided to drive in Turkey if it isnt in the EU. 
The webchat continues with Mr Y telling his broker that he doesnt need cover whilst in 
Turkey. He needs cover driving to, and then back from Turkey, having stayed in the country 
for 90 days. The agent asks which countries Mr Y will be driving through and tells him it will 
need to tell his insurer. The agent then recaps to Mr Y that he will be travelling for 3 to 4 
days through Europe, staying out of the UK for a total of 90 days, and travelling back over 3 
to 4 days. Mr Y agrees, and again asks for a green card. 
In the webchat Mr Ys broker asks him if he has separate cover for when hes in Turkey. He 
says he has third-party cover, and this is with a different insurer. The agent says hes 
emailed Mr Ys insurer to check if cover is available and that a response is expected within 
the next seven days. 
I can see that a letter was sent to Mr Y on 16 June 2021 confirming his policy would cancel 
in seven days. This was sent to the address we have on file for Mr Y. The policy 
subsequently cancelled on 28 June. 
Ive thought about Mr Ys comments that Calpe cancelled his policy solely based on him 
raising a query. I dont agree that this is what happened. I think Mr Y had a clear intention to 
drive his car through Europe, to Turkey, and expected to be out of the country for 90 days. 
The following policy term is of relevance here:
Cancellation/Cooling Off Period
We, the Underwriters or Your broker have the right to cancel Your Policy at any time by 
giving You seven days notice in writing where there is an exceptional or valid reason for 
doing so. The cancellation letter will be sent to the latest address We have for You and will 
set out the reason for cancellation. Exceptional or valid reasons may include but are not 
limited to:
(vi) Where We believe that continuing to provide cover following a known breach of
any Policy Term, condition, or Endorsement presents an unacceptable risk to the
Underwriters.   
The breach Calpe has referred to is Mr Ys intention to take his car out of the UK for a period 
greater than 30 days. Endorsement, 02 - Territorial Extension says minimum cover is 
provided for the use of Mr Ys car in the EU plus a list of ten further countries. Turkey isnt in 
this list. It also says cover is limited to trips of no more than 30 days up to a maximum of 90 
days per policy period. Endorsement, 04 Comprehensive Cover Abroad also says cover is 
limited to trips of no more than 30 day up to a maximum of 90 days per policy period. 
I understand Mr Ys view that he was only querying what cover was available. But I think its 
clear that he intended to go on this trip, which means the intention was there to breach his policy terms. I think it was correct that his broker referred the matter to his insurer. It has 
relied on its policy terms to cancel his policy. I think it was within its rights to do so, as Mr Y 
did clearly intend on breaching the travel limits applicable to his policy. 
I can see that Mr Y has been provided with a letter confirming his no-claims bonus. As our 
investigator said, its for his current insurer to consider any premium refund that is due. So, I 
cant ask Calpe to do any more in relation to this point. 
I note Mr Ys frustration that it took until January 2023 to provide a response to this part of 
his complaint. Im sorry that Mr Y was frustrated. But I cant see that he complained to Calpe 
until after he referred the matter to our service. We contacted it in November 2022, following 
which it investigated the complaint and sent Mr Y its response. 
Ive thought about Mr Ys view that some of his premium payments went unused. Ive looked 
at the cancellation section of his policy terms. This sets out what refunds can be expected 
when a policy is cancelled early. It says there will be no refund after the policy has been on 
cover for eight months. At the time of cancellation Mr Ys policy had been on cover longer 
than eight months, so no refund was due. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Calpe treated Mr Y unfairly when relying on its 
policy terms and cancelling his policy for the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to 
do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman