DRN-1640571
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly applied 
a policy limit to a claim made under a pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands in March 2016 to cover his dog, who Ill 
refer to as R. The policy renewed each year.
In April 2019, R was showing symptoms including lethargy, and her eating habits had 
changed. So, Mr H took R to the vet. Rs symptoms continued throughout May and she was 
investigated for possible gastrointestinal issues. Rs symptoms progressed in June 2019 and 
she was referred to a specialist. An MRI scan revealed a brain tumour and R was sadly put 
to sleep as a result.
Mr H submitted a number of invoices for Red Sands to consider. Red Sands paid a total of 
£1,901, saying it couldnt pay for any further treatment as Mr Hs policy contained a limit of 
£2,000 per condition per year  less the policy excess of £99.
Mr H complained, saying Rs early treatment and investigations had been for abdominal 
problems, whereas the latter treatment was for lethargy associated with the brain tumour. As 
he thought R had been treated for two separate conditions, he thought the costs should be 
considered under two separate limits of £2,000.
Red Sands didnt agree. It said the companys vet was satisfied the symptoms were all likely 
to be associated with the same underlying medical condition  the brain tumour. While it 
accepted R had been investigated for abdominal problems, the scans hadnt revealed any 
problem.
Mr H remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think 
Red Sands had applied the policy limit unfairly. This was because she wasnt persuaded Rs 
earlier symptoms were the result of a separate medical condition. Mr H didnt accept this, so 
the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I 
realise this will be a disappointment to Mr H, so Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Hs insurance policy say that he is covered for, all reasonable costs for 
treatment of your pet by a vet due to accident, illness or disease up to the maximum limit as 
specified in your schedule.
Mr Hs policy schedule shows he has an annual condition limit of £2,000. So, any costs 
incurred to investigate or treat the same condition that exceeds this limit wont be covered. Condition is defined as, any manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic 
classification or resulting from the same disease process regardless of the number of 
incidents or areas of your pets body affected.
Mr H feels that R was treated for two conditions; the first was inflammation of her abdomen  
he says after treatment, Rs symptoms improved. He says the second condition was the 
brain tumour, which carried separate symptoms. Mr H provided an email from Rs initial vet, 
Dr B, who said:
there was no evidence at all that either the GI tract or abdominal issues were related to 
the brain tumour. For this to be the case evidence of tumours would have to be found in 
abdominal organs and/or the GI tract. The work up was comprehensive and thorough and 
this most definitely was not the case. In the absence of tumours in the abdomen or GI tract 
then symptoms related to these conditions were unrelated to the brain tumour and so there 
were two unrelated conditions.
Red Sands doesnt believe this is supported by the medical notes from the time or the report 
completed by the neurological specialist, Dr C, who said in his letter of 19 June 2019:
(R) was seen at (ND) Specialists Referrals with a 2 month history or lethargy. During this 
time she was seen for suspected inflammatory bowel disease and had an abdominal 
ultrasound performed which revealed no significant findings.
It has also provided an opinion from Dr H, a veterinary surgeon, who said:
Tumours produce a number of inflammatory mediators that trigger nausea and lethargy, 
and one in this part of the brain would be expected to trigger nausea directly by its position in 
the brain too.
The first presentation was for lethargy and nausea with vomiting but can be seen elsewhere 
in the history as a reluctance to eat (eating but not her usual amount). This is very typical in 
nauseous animals. On the first day she had no diarrhoea, just nausea and one episode 
vomiting. I suspect the diarrhoea the next day was triggered by the antibiotics. She 
responded to steroids, and this led to the assumption she was responding due to 
inflammatory bowel disease, but steroids would be expected to reduce inflammation around 
the tumour (and possibly the size, depending on tumour type), reducing pressure in the brain 
and symptoms, including nausea and lethargy. With no history of chronic gastrointestinal 
(GI) disease, no obvious lesions on the scan and an appearance of the lethargy and nausea 
at the time the brain tumour was growing, suggests these are related.
Red Sands considers that all of Rs symptoms were caused by her brain tumour, so it should 
be treated as one condition.
Having considered all of the evidence provided, I havent seen enough to persuade me that 
Red Sands should treat Rs symptoms as the result of two separate medical conditions. I say 
this because the policy terms say a condition is a manifestation of an illness that results from 
the same disease process. So, in order to say that the abdominal problems were due to a 
condition other than the brain tumour, there would have to be some other disease process 
to explain them. Although R was investigated for abdominal issues, no underlying problem 
was found  an ultrasound scan of the abdomen was normal, and all other tests were 
returned negative. 
Ive taken into account Dr Bs comments that the abdominal problems couldnt have been 
associated with the tumour. And Ive considered Mr Hs comments about R improving after 
being given antibiotics. But overall, I find Dr Hs comments to be more persuasive in light of her experience and the explanation shes given about the antibiotics and the association of 
nausea with tumours.
If Mr H can provide Red Sands with further evidence from Rs treating vets, particularly Dr C, 
that the change in eating habits or vomiting couldnt have been associated with the tumour, I 
would expect Red Sands to consider it. But based on the evidence Ive seen, on balance, I 
dont think Red Sands has applied the policy limits unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman