DRN-2878999
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated them unfairly when visiting their 
local branch to carry out a transaction on their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J visited their local branch on 10 July 2020 to print out a statement for their 
account. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they needed to queue outside of the branch 
ahead of entering it to complete the transaction they wanted to make. When they reached 
the front of the queue a member of Barclays staff asked what it was they wanted to do in 
branch and informed them that this wasnt possible as the machine which allowed 
statements to be printed wasnt being used for this at the time.
Mr and Mrs J were upset when other members of the public appeared to be allowed in to 
use the machines in the branch. The believed these to be the same ones said to be 
unavailable to use. They felt they were being treated unfairly and differently. They 
questioned if this was because of their race or because they had small children with them. 
Mr J said he made a comment which triggered the Barclays staff member to raise their 
voice with him. He said the member of staff shouted at him and did so in a manner which 
left him to feel unsafe and this was done with no social distancing.
Barclays said Mr J became abusive, raising his voice with the member of Barclays staff who 
was manning the door after being told they couldnt use the machine to print a statement 
and in reaction to how the member of staff had spoken to them. Branch security were called 
and explained Mr Js behaviour wasnt acceptable and asked that he calm down.
Barclays has also said manager assistance was requested help deal with Mr and Mrs Js 
query.
A member of staff looked at Mr and Mrs Js account and said six monthly statements 
couldnt be provided as the account was set up to receive quarterly statements. Mr J said 
he spoke with telephone banking who changed the account to monthly statements and 
that these could be collected from the branch. Barclays later confirmed in its final 
response these would be sent to Mr and Mrs J in the post.
Mr and Mrs J have said they were taken inside by someone who introduced themselves as 
a manger to talk about the issue they were having. During this conversation the manager 
made a comment about a home office application in response to Mr and Mrs J saying the 
statements were needed for a holiday visa. Mr and Mrs J felt this was a discriminatory 
remark and they were profiled based on their race and accent. Theyve said this left them 
feeling violated.
Barclays say Mr J continued to be abusive and the member of staff informed him that theyd 
both be receiving a warning letter about their behaviour and their account could be closed if 
this continued. The warning letter was sent on 11 July 2020.
Mr and Mrs J have also said Barclays security physically restrained Mr J and they feel this 
was unacceptable taking account of the global pandemic being experienced at the time. 
This together with the shouting left Mr J feeling unsafe. 
Barclays said it doesnt agree its member of staff made any comments about the home 
office and instead, Mr J himself had said this. It said it doesnt tolerate customers abusing 
its staff and takes this behaviour very seriously. This is why the warning letter was sent to 
Mr and Mrs J about their behaviour the day after they visited the branch. This explained if 
their behaviour continued, Barclays would close their account.
Mr J has also said he suffers with OCD and the way Barclays answered his questions and 
provided him information made this worse. He said he made them aware of his condition 
but it failed to take account of this or make any reasonable adjustments.
Mr and Mrs J requested to switch their account away from Barclays following their 
experience when trying to get the printed statements from the account.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think there was enough evidence to 
suggest Barclays had done anything wrong. It was clear Mr and Mrs J were unhappy 
when they visited their local branch but she couldnt say Barclays had acted unfairly when 
it didnt offer the statements in branch as she felt the machine wasnt working and it 
offered alternatives. Nor could she say it had discriminated Mr and Mrs J with the services 
it offered and the way they say they were spoken too. The conversations were recalled 
differently by Barclays and Mr and Mrs J and so with no way of confirming what was said, 
she couldnt agree it had done anything wrong.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. A copy of my findings are 
included below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding this complaint and will explain why.
Mr and Mrs J feel theyve been discriminated against by Barclays because of their ethnic 
background. They feel the service they were offered by Barclays staff and the way they 
were spoken to was different because of this. And Mr J also believes his OCD wasnt taken 
into consideration by Barclays after he informed them of this.
Both race and disability are protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 (the Act), 
but it is important to be clear that my role isnt to decide whether there has been a breach 
of the Act as this is something which will need to be decided by the court. However, when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable I have taken account of this as well as all other 
relevant rules and regulations that Barclays must work within. And while I cant tell 
Barclays what services it should provide in branch, I can check it is being fair with what it 
offers and that it hasnt treated Mr and Mrs J differently or unfairly.
Mr and Mrs Js complaint centres around statements made by Barclays staff and their 
actions. With no CCTV footage available or telephone recordings for the calls made while 
Mr and Mrs J were at the branch, Im left with the testimony of both sides as the main 
evidence for consideration. Alongside this Ive also considered the subsequent actions of 
both Barclays and Mr and Mrs J after the event.
Mr and Mrs J have been consistent throughout their story with what they feel was said that 
day and the actions taken. There is acceptance from them that the questioning of why they 
werent allowed into branch to print a statement from a machine and how this was phrased by Mr J may have prompted a reaction from the Barclays staff member on the door. But 
they feel the reaction and treatment of them following this was not acceptable and that 
Barclays failed to treat them fairly with the actions it took.
Barclays in contrast hasnt been as consistent with its version of events. In initial emails 
sent shortly after the incident to capture what happened for the complaints department, 
Barclays said manager assistance was requested for the member of staff of on the door. 
But it later said that no manager spoke with Mr and Mrs J about the statements and their 
request.
Barclays also indicate Mr and Mrs J entered the branch to discuss their problem after 
being asked to step out of the queue following the initial disagreement about being 
allowed in to print a statement. Later Barclays has been unclear on whether Mr and Mrs J 
did enter the branch and speak with anyone else about their account.
The reason for the machine not working isnt entirely clear either. This machine in question 
is an Online Banking Products (OLBP) machine. The branch also has ASC cash machines 
in it which are used for cash withdrawals or balance enquires and this might be the 
machine Mr and Mrs J witnessed other customers using.
Barclays has said the OLBP machine that provides these statements was not being used 
as a precaution during the pandemic. It has also said in the final response the machine 
was out of use (while this could mean it was working but not being used it isnt clear.) 
Either way, it has also said Mr and Mrs J were shown that there was a sign on the OLBP 
machine to see it was not in service. This indicates again that Mr and Mrs J were in the 
branch to be shown this.
I appreciate the staff at the local branch likely see a number of customers every day and 
recalling individual events can lead to discrepancies in these recollections as many 
scenarios might merge into one another. But on this occasion, Im persuaded that Mr and 
Mrs Js recollection of events is a more accurate a reflection of what likely happened 
when compared to Barclays.
The OLBP machine may not have been working but when Mr and Mrs J questioned why 
they werent able to enter the branch, the reaction of the staff on the door and the security 
seems disproportionate in the circumstances described. And I understand the concerns
raised by Mr J about his health and safety with how this was handled.
Overall, I think its clear how the actions of Barclays on 10 July 2020 left Mr and Mrs J 
feeling. After attempting to visit their local branch to carry out a very basic transaction, they 
felt the need to return home and organise the switch of their current account to another 
provider. While switching accounts is now a relatively quick process its not something 
people do regularly or without reason.
I cant know exactly what was said, nor can I make a finding on whether there is a breach 
of the Act as Ive mentioned at the start of my findings. But I can say whether I think Mr 
and Mrs J have been treated fairly. And for the reasons Ive given, in this instance I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs J were left to feel unsafe and that they had been treated 
differently to others when it appeared other people entered the branch to carry out a 
service theyd been told wasnt available.
There is no record of Mr J having OCD on Barclays system and I think had it been 
informed of this a note would have been added. It might be this was mentioned in branch 
and the member of staff didnt take the steps Mr J wanted to communicate with him in a way he finds helpful. But Ive considered this as part of whether I think Barclays treated 
him and Mrs J fairly when dealing with this situation as a whole.
So I dont think Mr and Mrs J received the service they are entitled to expect when they 
visited their local branch and the manager assistance provided appears to have added to 
the distress of the situation.
Having spoken with Mr J and listened to and understood all communication he and Mrs J 
have had with this service about the complaint, its clear Barclays actions have caused 
distress and upset. And I think its fair that Barclays acknowledges it didnt treat them 
fairly on this occasion and compensate Mr and Mrs J for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I said I was planning on asking Barclays to pay £200.00 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision. It said it strongly refutes the allegations 
made by Mr and Mrs J in their complaint. But it will accept the decision made and 
recognises the complaint could have been handled better.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept. They raised the following points for consideration.
1. The financial ramifications in addition to the distress and inconvenience experienced 
mean the award I proposed to make is too low. Mrs J had banked with Barclays for 15 
years and the joint account had been with it for almost 10 years. In feeling the need to 
switch accounts based on how they were treated that day, both Mr and Mrs Js credit 
scores have been affected. This will make obtaining credit harder for a number of 
years. They see this as a direct impact of changing accounts as the credit score 
provider gives tips on how to boost their score and details maintaining a longer-term 
banking relationship as one of these.
2. Mr and Mrs J feel strongly that making an application for a banking statement to travel 
and it being assumed that Mrs J had immigration issues with the home office 
illustrates a systemic issue with Barclays which is a concern for people of Caribbean 
descent. They fear unconscious bias could impact staff and Barclays decision making 
when it comes to how they are treated when applying for products with it.
3. The wanted to clarify that Mrs J never raised her voice with members of staff and was 
on the phone to the telephone to customer services when the argument took place. 
Mr J also says he raised his voice but at no time swear or be abusive to the Barclays 
member of staff.
4. Mr J also raised concerns about the complaint handling process of Barclays and it 
refusing to deal with him about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything and the new points raised by Mr and Mrs J, Im upholding 
their complaint for the same reasons as detailed previously. But Ill address the additional 
points raised.Financial ramifications 
I can understand the concerns raised about the financial ramifications of the account switch. 
Banking history is one of many factors considered as part of an individuals credit profile and 
less time with a current account open with the same provider can impact this. It will take time 
for this to be rebuilt but I havent seen anything to show that their reduced credit scores have 
had a negative impact. Equally I havent been shown anything to confirm the scores before 
or after the switch.
Mr J explained over the last year, sometimes things have happened which meant theyve 
needed to rely on credit and this wasnt a pleasant experience. But he hasnt explained how 
this credit was affected or that this was different to what he might have been able to achieve 
had he not switched accounts. All lenders apply their own criteria for lending and I dont think 
its fair to say from what Ive seen, that Barclays actions have impacted these. 
A payment for distress and inconvenience needs to be reflective of what has happened and 
while Mr and Mrs J might feel they will struggle to find credit in the future, I cant compensate 
for future events that may or may not happen.
Systemic issues with Barclays
My role and the role of this service is to look at individual complaints and give determinations 
on the facts of what happened. Although I understand why Mr and Mrs Js experience and 
complaint points may give them concerns about a wider issue and this is their opinion, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to make comment on this based on the merits of this complaint. 
Barclays has strongly refuted the allegations made by Mr and Mrs J about what they say 
happened and a going beyond what happened on this individual complaint would not be 
appropriate or proportionate. 
Ive explained why I think Mr and Mrs J were treated unfairly by Barclays when they visited 
their local branch but I wont comment on any wider concerns for the reasons detailed. 
Clarification on Mr and Mrs Js actions
Im happy to accept that Mrs J didnt raise her voice at any point with Barclays and that Mr J 
didnt swear. As Ive said previously, Ive been more persuaded by their recollection of 
events and see no reason to doubt this clarification  although it has no bearing on the 
outcome.  
The complaint handling
Mr J has explained how he feels the complaint handling wasnt good enough and it resulted 
in him feeling he had to bring the complaint to this service. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity so while I acknowledge his concerns about this. I cant comment on the 
complaint handling.
Putting things right
 Based on everything Ive seen, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision on 
this complaint.
Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs J £200.00 to reflect the distress and inconvenience of its actions when they attempted to print a statement from their account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint and direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to settle this as directed.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman