DRN-1809013
The complaint
Mrs W complains that 3J Finance Limited is responsible for a mis-sold loan for an online 
teaching course and that it wont release her from a fixed sum loan agreement which paid for 
the course.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs W says she was sold a cancel at any time subscription service for 
online teaching course for children by a related company to 3J Finance. 3J Finance say she 
took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over five years with it to pay for online teaching 
course.
In 2019 Mrs W says she discovered the loan through an unrelated credit check and was 
unhappy with what she thought was a subscription service, so she tried to cancel it. She was 
told that neither the related company or 3J Finance had done anything wrong. So she 
complained. Both the related company and 3J Finance say theyd done nothing wrong. So 
she complained here.
Our Investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint, but 3J Finance didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W says she received a leaflet via her childs school offering the services of the related 
company Ive referred to, to help with Maths and English for the children. She expressed an 
interest in learning more about this, and a representative visited her home on Sunday 11 
November 2018. By the end of this meeting Mrs W had purchased a course teaching Maths 
and English for her children. It appears the representative was acting for both the related 
company and 3J during the sales process, and both these companies shared directors and 
were controlled by the same individuals. The total price of the course was £5,148 of which 
£5048 was paid for with a loan from 3J Finance which was arranged by the representative. 
The loan was interest free and was to run for 60 months. 
Mrs W has been very clear and consistent in her representations that during the meeting 
with the representative they understood the situation was that they had a service which was 
paid for by a subscription per month and that they could cancel at any time. She has also 
referred to the representative being pushy and her feeling pressured into deciding.
During early 2019 and after continued efforts with the course for some weeks and having 
talked to the related firm about the course on a number of occasions Mrs W came to the 
realisation that the service wasnt right for her son, so she approached their school who 
made arrangements to support him.
During that period Mrs W also had a credit search done for unrelated reasons and 
discovered that she had a loan as well as her car finance for her car. She said she was only 
aware of having car finance, so she looked into matters and discovered that she had this 
finance agreement from 3J Finance. She says this is the first time she realised that she had 
a credit facility with 3J Finance, up until then she says she understood she was paying 
monthly towards a subscription service for the course. 
So Mrs W contacted the related company and 3J Finance to cancel her payments. In August 
2019 she was sent a Final Response Letter by the related company which essentially said 
Mrs W had signed and initialled the paperwork, had the benefit of the finance agreement, 
was aware of the cancellation period and had discussed the matter thoroughly with the 
representative at the time. Similarly in October 2019 3J Finance responded to her complaint 
stating that she had agreed to everything and had been provided the course. 
3J Finance didnt sell Mrs W the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Mrs W 
due to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan 
Mrs W entered with 3J Finance is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act 
which provide her with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the related company the agent of 3J Finance 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs W entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication she received from the related company. In essence 
this means 3J Finance can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during 
the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs W to hold 3J Finance liable for 
breaches of contract by the related company, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to 
the purchase of the course.
3J Finance has pointed to a number of documents (of which it has provided copies) which 
were either electronically signed or initialled and signed by hand by Mrs W that day. She 
accepts that she did initial and sign the Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form and 
that she completed forms on an electronic device provided by the representative. She says 
this was all done whilst she was trying to watch a video that was played to her by the 
representative. She has referred to the representative being pushy and that she felt under 
pressure. I also can see from the documents that they are date and time stamped. I note the 
time stamps on the different documents are very close together in terms of the exact times 
stamped. This suggests that the electronic documents were gone through at a rapid speed. 
Which seems to support Mrs Ws comments about the representative being pushy and her 
feeling under pressure to complete the documentation.
3J Finances position essentially is that the documentary evidence from the point of sale is 
overwhelming and is, in short, the end of the matter as Mrs W agreed to everything in those 
documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete appreciation of what happened 
here. What was said by the representative is also important as the discussion will have 
started before the paperwork was signed. And Mrs W would have considered what the 
representative said in her decision making during the sale.
Here Mrs W has been consistent in two particular areas, firstly that she believed at the time 
(and until she discovered differently through the credit search) that she was paying a 
monthly subscription for the teaching course. She says she believed this because this is 
what the representative told her. Secondly she believed she could cancel this course at any 
time and that she didnt discover this wasnt the case until when she did try to cancel the 
subscription. Similarly she believed this because this was what the representative told her.I think a particularly important issue here is the reliance Mrs W placed on what the 
representative told her. And I also think the context of the origin of this relationship is a key 
consideration. Mrs W says she became aware of the provider of the course (and 
consequently 3J Finance) because a leaflet came home in the school bag. From what Mrs 
W says this happened more than once in their particular case and my understanding is that 
this marketing approach was common place by the related company. I think a parent 
receiving an introduction such as this from their childs school would view this as at least an 
implicit endorsement or recommendation. I think this would have made Mrs W more likely to 
trust what she was being told by the representative in this case.
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
related company and 3J Finance. These include the common themes of people 
understanding that they could cancel at any time and that they were paying on a subscription 
or pay as you go type arrangement. I havent seen anything that connects these 
complainants other than they were sold courses such as this by the related company or 3J 
Finance. That doesnt mean that the representatives always provided misleading or untrue 
information. But it does show that there was a significant risk that such representatives either 
were unclear on the arrangement being entered into or that unscrupulous or incompetent 
representatives may have presented the situation differently to that articulated in the 
documentation.
This service has also received information that the related company operated informally a 
longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can see the 
existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a potential 
source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a conclusion 
that misunderstandings were not uncommon.
Ive considered what Mrs W has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Mrs W was told a different story by the representative regarding 
the operation of the agreement to that set out in the documentation provided by 3J Finance. I 
think it likely she was told that she could cancel at any time and that she was paying a 
subscription type service. And it was on this basis she entered into the agreement. And 
similarly I think it is on this basis things should be put right. And as Ive described due to the 
operation of sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mrs W can hold 3J 
Finance liable for the incorrect information provided by the representative in this case. So 3J 
Finance needs to do something to put things right.
In response to the views of the Investigator 3J Finance has said that reliance on one partys 
recollections when compared to its tangible and credible documentary evidence would 
appear to be unsound. I disagree. Firstly that the paperwork was signed by Mrs W isnt 
disputed. But importantly the key issue here is what was said to Mrs W before and whilst she 
signed that documentation and what she relied on in deciding to sign. Secondly and more 
importantly 3J Finance has only described what it considers what would have been said by 
its representative not what was actually said. Mrs W was there in person and heard what was actually said and I find her comments persuasive. And along with what Ive already said 
with regards to sales such as this more broadly and considering what this service knows of 
sales by this firm (and related companies) means I consider it fair on balance that 3J 
Finance put things right in this particular case.
Putting things right
 I direct 3J Finance to take the following actions:
Cap Mrs Ws liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as of
the date she first contacted either the related company or 3J Finance to cancel. Anything 
above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Mrs W has paid more than this capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to her, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date she
made each overpayment, to the date she receives a refund.
If Mrs W has paid less than this capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mrs Ws credit file and 
mark it as settled from the first date she contacted either the related company or 3J 
Finance to cancel. If Mrs W has not paid up to this capped liability then 3J Finance 
does not need to mark the loan as settled until she has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Mrs W for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else 
she received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under 
the contract.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 3J Finance to take tax off this interest. 3J Finance must
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mrs W asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against 3J Finance Limited and direct 
it to put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman