DRN-1548716
The complaint
Mr L says Morses Club PLC (Morses) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr L says he was offered 
the lending regardless of whether he could afford it. He also said he had to take out more 
lending as a result. 
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected credit loans provided to Mr L between January 
2014 and October 2016. The loans ranged from £200 to £600 and each loan was repayable 
weekly over 32 or 33 weeks for amounts of £10 to £30 per week. 
Morses bought Mr Ls account from another business. And prior to Morses taking over the 
account Mr L had taken out six loans with the previous lender. Those loans have been 
considered under a separate complaint. 
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Ls complaint and thought that the loans should be upheld. The 
adjudicator said this because they thought the overall pattern of Mr Ls borrowing indicated 
he was reliant on this type of loan and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said it carried out sufficient checks prior to the 
lending to ensure they were affordable for Mr L. It was also satisfied that Mr L used its 
product as intended.  
Morses comments didnt change the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done so, I am upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
Like the adjudicator, Im satisfied that it would be reasonable to assume that Morses should 
have been aware of the six earlier loans Mr L had taken with the previous business. And it 
should have taken that lending history into account when it was deciding whether to carry on 
lending to Mr L. So, while I wont be making any finding on the earlier lending, I will be taking 
those loans into consideration when considering the overall lending pattern.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ls lending history, with a view to seeing if there was a 
point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ls case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached at loan one (of the Morses loans). I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr L was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. When taking Mr Ls earlier lending into account he had taken out a total 
of seven loans in 28 months. So, it should have realised it was more likely than not 
Mr L was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I note that loan three (Mr Ls ninth loan overall) was taken out before loan two (Mr Ls 
eighth loan overall) was repaid and the concurrent repayments would have been 
increasing his weekly outgoings. In response to the adjudicators assessment Morses pointed out there was a break in 
lending of five months between loan one (Mr Ls seventh) being paid off and loan two 
(Mr Ls eighth) being taken. But bearing in mind how long Mr Ls borrowing 
relationship was in total, I dont think this was a sufficient enough amount of time for 
Morses to have reasonably concluded that Mr L had overcome whatever the financial 
circumstances were that caused him to take this type of credit.
Mr L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan three was 
taken out over two and half years after his first with Morses and more than five years 
since he had started lending from the previous business. Mr L had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect; service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mr L lost out because Morses provided the borrowing because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ls ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about loans one to three. Morses should put things right 
as laid out below  making sure to provide Mr L with a breakdown of its calculations. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans one to three;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken means any information recorded about them is adverse. 
So, all entries about the loans should be removed from Mr Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Morses Finance Limited must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Morses Finance Limited should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman