DRN-1322559
The complaint
Mr W complains that FirstRand Bank Limited (MotoNovo) misrepresented the terms of a hire 
purchase agreement. And made errors which adversely affected his credit file. He wants 
compensation.
What happened
Mr W complains about various errors which he says MotoNovo made in regard to a hire 
purchase agreement he entered in August 2016 relating to the acquisition of a motor vehicle. 
The errors about which he complains include the wrong length of agreement being recorded; 
the price of the vehicle being misrepresented; mistakes in the settlement figure, rate of 
interest and amount repayable. He also claims that credit searches have damaged his credit 
file.
MotoNovo acknowledged that it had made errors. But it said it had tried to resolve everything 
in the best interests of Mr W. And this had included:
 Removing the administration fee of £149;
 Reducing normal monthly instalments from £483.22 to £325.29 due to error in partial 
settlement. Also due to the error in the partial settlement, it said that a vast amount of 
interest had also been removed from the customers agreement;
 Amending customers credit file;
 And offering customer a reduced settlement figure;
MotoNovo also said it had paid £500 compensation for poor service, distress and 
inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She accepted that 
MotoNovo had made errors. But she thought the steps it had taken to correct these together 
with the compensation it had offered was fair.
Mr W expressed dissatisfaction with this outcome. And felt MotoNovo should pay more 
compensation.  As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can see the issues raised in this complaint are of importance to Mr W. And Im sorry its 
taken this long to issue a final decision.
In the time thats elapsed since Mr W made his complaint some things have changed. 
Possibly the most significant fact in relation to this complaint being that the vehicle has been 
sold in January 2020.
Mr Ws complaint covers several issues. The main concerns include that the initial price he 
paid was too much due to VAT being added; the length of the agreement being initially 
recorded as 60 months and not 48 months resulted in higher instalments; and the effect of 
searches on his credit file. 
In terms, he feels that he ought to have been able to walk away at the time and cancel the 
agreement. As that didnt happen, he now thinks MotoNovo should pay more compensation 
to reflect the stress hes experienced.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In a situation where theres clearly been a lot of disagreement, Id like to try to start from a 
place that both parties are hopefully able to accept. Quite simply, I cant turn back the clock 
and undo whats happened as the agreement took its course and the vehicle has been sold 
on. All I can do is to see if the steps which MotoNovo has taken are a fair and reasonable 
way in which to resolve this complaint.
Dealing first with the cost price of the vehicle. MotoNovo issued a final response letter (FRL) 
relating to that issue in May 2017. Our investigator has previously explained why we are 
unable to look at that again.
Our investigators view set out a timeline of events which included some calculations. As 
both parties have seen it, I shant repeat these in detail. But in summary her view confirmed 
that the cash price of the vehicle as financed through the agreement, including ancillary 
items, was £19,013.12, exclusive of any interest.
It explained that the account statement showed that from September 2016 up to December 
2018 Mr W had paid £12,379.08 (28 x £442.11).  And that MotoNovos FRL of 29 April 2019 
stated that after the recalculations (due to the wrong agreement length) he had 20 payments 
left of £325.29. That amounted to £6,664.80 including the option to purchase and 
administration fees.
Taken together and after the removal of the administration charge (£149) this means Mr W 
was required to pay £18,894.88, which is below the cash price of the vehicle.
At some point three separate versions of the agreement were issued due to the adjustment 
to the length of the agreement. And each version contains a requirement for interest to be 
paid. The original amounts repayable with interest added were £22,261.48; £25,568.76; and 
£26,536.60.
The combined effect of the adjustments and recalculations made by MotoNovo was that Mr 
W wasnt required to pay interest on the capital sum borrowed.Where a business has made an error in the terms of the length of a finance agreement - and 
this affects the sum repayable - our general approach would be to for it to recalculate what 
payments would be due under the correct version. And to make the required adjustments.
Here, whichever version one takes Mr W has benefitted by a sum of more than £3,000. And 
possibly by as much as over £6,000.
In addition, MotoNovo made a payment to him of £250 for poor service and £250 for distress 
and inconvenience.  As customer service quality is not a regulated activity this service would 
not make any award in relation to the poor service aspect. 
As the agreement is now settled this should be reflected on Mr Ws credit file. Theres 
insufficient information to say what, if any, adverse effect previous searches may have had.
But given the compensation paid and the effective removal of interest payments, the total 
financial benefit to Mr W is far above any sum I would have recommended even if Id found  
which I do not  that MotoNovos searches had resulted in any additional negative impact.
I acknowledge that Mr W would have been disconcerted by the errors made. And this would 
have resulted in some measure of stress and uncertainty. But I find that the various actions 
taken by MotoNovo to remedy any errors it made were fair and reasonable. And went 
beyond that which I would have required had they not already been put in place.
So I shant ask MotoNovo do anything more. Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint. 
 My final decision 
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman