DRN-2300695
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs L bought a regular premium PPI policy in March 2010 alongside a fixed rate loan in a 
meeting with Lloyds. The policy covered Mrs L against accidents, sickness or 
unemployment.
Mrs L thinks Lloyds mis-sold the policy to her. She says if she signed for PPI she wouldnt 
have known what it was and Lloyds didnt explain it to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. As Mrs L doesnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided to not uphold Mrs Ls complaint for the following reasons:
I have checked the policy terms and can see that Mrs L was eligible for the cover the 
policy provided. 
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mrs L in the meeting when she met 
with a representative from Lloyds. So, Ive needed to rely on both sides recollections 
of what happened and also consider the sales documentation that was used at the 
time of sale, to give me a better understanding as to what more likely happened. 
Mrs L says she was not told about PPI in the meeting. But her recollections are not 
detailed. This is understandable as the sale took place many years ago. So, I have 
looked at the sales documentation and in particular the loan application form to see 
how the PPI was presented to her. Mrs L has signed separately for PPI on the loan 
application form and she was given a choice on this form to say no. I can also see on 
the loan agreement that the PPI policy was presented as optional. It is stated this 
insurance is optional. I am persuaded that it has been presented as an optional 
requirement on the form. So, I think it is most likely that there was some discussion 
about the PPI policy in the meeting and Mrs L chose the policy by signing the form. 
So, I think she was given the choice to have the policy within the meeting.
Moving on, Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs L during the meeting. So as it 
did recommend the policy to her, it had additional responsibilities during the sale to 
make sure the policy was suitable for her needs. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for Mrs L based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs L 
would have needed the benefit the cover provided in a difficult time  if she was 
made unemployed or was sick. I can see that she says she had 15 days full sick pay 
but she could have claimed benefit alongside this sick pay and for longer (12 months 
for unemployment and longer for an accident or sickness), so I dont think this made 
the policy unsuitable for her. I can see no other issues that would have made the 
policy unsuitable either for Mrs L such as a limitation or significant term that would 
have affected her ability to claim benefit.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy that 
Mrs L took out. On the PPI loan agreement form I can see that it clearly shows the 
monthly premium amount. So, I think the costs of the policy were most likely 
disclosed in a clear way in the meeting. The policy seemed affordable and could 
have been cancelled at any time by Mrs L.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover or give clear 
information on the significant terms in the meeting. But its unlikely Mrs L wouldve 
been affected by any of these due to her circumstances at the time.
In conclusion I do not think Lloyds mis-sold the PPI policy to Mrs L. But Lloyds has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman