DRN-3594322
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the service they received from AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have an AXA private medical insurance policy. In August 2021 Mrs G fell and 
injured her hip. She contacted AXA for help as she wanted to arrange an x-ray. It was 
unclear whether it was a broken bone or an injury to the muscle or tendon. 
AXA explained that the policy didnt cover GP referrals for x-rays, only consultant referrals. 
However, they were offering a service called Doctor Care Anywhere (DCA) which may be 
able to make a referral. 
Mr and Mrs G werent able to access DCA because they needed to verify their details using 
a smartphone. They tried various workarounds but werent able to access the service for 
several weeks. Then, a relative explained how Mr and Mrs G would be able to use their 
electronic devices to complete the process. 
In the meantime, Mrs G was trying to get her hip x-rayed. She accessed an x-ray via the 
NHS and was told in a corridor, in front of other people, shed broken her hip. The NHS 
wanted to admit her and carry out surgery  but there was going to be some delay. Mrs G 
discharged herself and saw an AXA consultant. He confirmed the break and told Mrs G to go 
to a different NHS hospital where shed have surgery more quickly. Ultimately, thats what 
happened.
Mr and Mrs G are mainly unhappy because they couldnt access DCA for a prolonged period 
of time. They say, in summary, this meant Mrs G received the news of her break in a very 
public setting rather than in the comfort of a private facility theyd paid for. They are also 
unhappy with the overall service they received from AXA and asked them to refund a years 
premiums. Theyve since cancelled their policy with AXA. 
In their final response letter AXA offered Mr and Mrs G £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience of not being able to access DCA. In summary, they said in the final response 
letter that the policy doesnt cover GP referred diagnostic tests and its not responsible for 
private or NHS waiting times. They said that whilst Mrs G hadnt been able to access DCA 
shed had a private consultation, which AXA had prioritised. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He noted the 
policy didnt cover emergency treatment and didnt cover GP referred diagnostic tests. He 
thought Mrs G had benefitted from cover and AXA wasnt responsible for the actions of DCA. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. They feel 
the offer of £300 is derisory and that at least £1000 would be fairer. They said that Mrs G 
should have had her hip x-ray paid for and she suffered unnecessary stress by having to 
attend the accident and emergency department. They reiterated that they couldnt access 
DCA and the main reason they have private healthcare is because Mrs G is terrified of 
hospitals. They say their experience with AXA has impacted her mental and physical 
wellbeing. So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the experience Mrs G had  its clear she was in a lot of pain and 
discomfort when she injured herself. I can understand why that was compounded if she is 
terrified of hospitals. Ive considered all the points that Mr and Mrs G have raised but Ill 
focus on those that I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think AXA need 
to do anything further to put things right as I think the £300 they offered to pay Mr and Mrs G 
is fair. I say that because: 
The policy doesnt cover GP referrals for diagnostic tests, such as x-rays and it 
doesnt cover emergency treatment. In order to get an x-ray on her policy, Mrs G 
would have needed to first see a consultant or speak to DCA.  
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs G werent registered with DCA when Mrs G fell. This 
meant that they were faced with navigating the verification process at a time when 
they needed to access the service quickly. AXA explained to Mr G during one of the 
calls that this was something theyd introduced as an added benefit. Based on my 
experience, and the dates involved in this case, I think its likely this was something 
additional AXA offered to members following the impact of Covid-19. In any event, 
Mr and Mrs G were required to register to use DCA  I dont think thats 
unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs G felt unsupported during the verification process. But thats not 
something I can fairly hold AXA responsible for. Thats a process thats set down by 
DCA. And, I wouldnt expect AXA to guide Mr and Mrs G through the verification 
process, even with specific knowledge of the electronic devices they had. Whilst a 
relative may have easily understood the functionality of their specific devices, I dont 
think it means AXA acted unreasonably. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G were worried and that Mrs G was in pain and discomfort 
whilst they were trying to sort out the x-ray. But the policy doesnt cover emergency 
treatment. And, private healthcare isnt designed to replace NHS emergency 
services. So, whilst I can understand why Mr and Mrs G wanted to try and access 
treatment via DCA, its not a replacement for emergency treatment.    
In any event Im not persuaded that the compensation should be increased above 
£300. Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Gs comments about having to wait for hours in 
the accident and emergency department. And Ive taken into account how theyve 
said they felt finding out the result of the x-ray in an NHS corridor. They think this 
could have been avoided if theyd been able to access DCA. But, I dont think thats 
the case. I dont know if DCA would have authorised the x-ray, how quickly it could 
have been arranged or if theyd have said to Mrs G to seek emergency treatment. 
So I cant fairly conclude that Mrs G would have been able to access treatment 
privately, and more quickly. 
I also think AXA acted reasonably to support Mr and Mrs G with accessing treatment when they couldnt use DCA. AXA arranged an expedited appointment with a private 
consultant when they were notified of the break  this was within a few days of first 
being notified of the claim. The calls with Mr G reflect that AXA were trying to find a 
solution by sourcing a local appointment with a consultant as soon as possible. And, 
they also offered Mr G the opportunity to speak to their nursing team about the risk of 
Mrs G developing blood clots. So, I think AXA took reasonable steps to support Mr 
and Mrs G in the absence of DCA.
During the above time Mrs G had discharged herself from the NHS hospital as she 
didnt want to be admitted and potentially face a wait of several days. The hospital 
wanted to admit her and treat her. The private consultant also, ultimately, referred 
Mrs G back to the NHS so she could access treatment as quickly as possible. All of 
this suggests to me that Mrs G needed emergency treatment and thats not 
something the policy is designed to cover. Whilst I can understand why she was 
disappointed not to be treated in a private facility the available evidence suggests 
that she needed emergency diagnosis and treatment in an NHS facility.
I can only make an award for what did happen, not what might have happened - 
Mr and Mrs G didnt need to use DCA within the remaining time that they were 
without access to the service. So, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to increase the 
award for compensation when there has been no further detriment to Mr and Mrs G 
following the initial issues with accessing the service.
Mr and Mrs G are also unhappy with other aspects of the service they received from 
AXA. For example, they said they received a letter to say Mrs Gs concerns were 
resolved when that wasnt the case and that other correspondence wasnt responded 
to. Ive taken these further concerns into account when reaching my decision, but 
they dont change my thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint. AXA has 
acknowledged that there was some confusion about whether the complaint was 
resolved. Having listened to the call I can understand why as Mr G seemed happy 
with the assistance from the call handler. And, when AXA realised that Mr and Mrs G 
remained unhappy, they addressed Mr Gs concerns in detail. They also apologised if 
some of Mr Gs correspondence hadnt been responded to. So, I dont think AXA 
need to do anything more to put things right. 
Taking all of Mr and Mrs Gs concerns and complaint points into account Im satisfied 
£300 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to them. 
My final decision
AXA has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should pay Mr and Mrs G £300 (if it 
hasnt done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman