DRN-3786564
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society declined his fraud claim and refused to 
refund a transaction he did not make.
What happened
On 26 May 2022 a payment for £800 debited Mr Js account. He says he did not authorise 
this transaction, but Nationwide says the payment was authorised and so it will not refund it.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Js complaint. He said the evidence Nationwide had 
submitted showed the transaction had been authorised by entering a code into a card reader 
and it was Mr Js card that had been entered into the card reader using his PIN. Mr J has 
confirmed no-one else has access to his card nor his PIN, which is not recorded anywhere. 
The IP address also matched that of undisputed transactions from the prior month. So he 
thought there was no point of compromise that suggested a third party had completed the 
payment. This meant he found Nationwides decision to be fair and reasonable.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr J asked for an ombudsmans review. He said had he been 
party to the payment he would have access to the transferred funds but instead they were 
immediately moved on. He has previously used the medium involved in this payment which 
maybe how the scam succeeded. Other banks refund transactions whilst investigating fraud 
and recovering funds. The security risk as Nationwide has had to re-issue his debit card 
three times in three months has not been considered. Nationwide has directed Mr J to ATMs 
to access his funds, this is problematic given his mobility, but shouldnt all his security details 
have been changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about all the points Mr J has raised but in keeping with our role as 
an informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the issues I 
find to be material to the outcome of the complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Nationwide can hold Mr J liable for the disputed payment if the
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made it or authorised it.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Nationwide have supplied evidence
that shows the transaction was made using Mr Js card, card reader, PIN and code. Im 
satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Nationwide and Mr J agreed to operate the account to
allow Nationwide to make payments on Mr Js behalf. For example, Nationwides terms and
conditions set out that if a payment is arranged online or over the phone and certain security 
measure are passed then Nationwide accept that the instruction to make the payment is
authorised by the account holder. So, here because Mr Js card, PIN and card reader code 
were used, Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transaction was 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Nationwide to hold 
Mr J responsible, for example if his card or PIN was used without his permission. 
However, Mr J has confirmed no-one else had access to his card or his PIN. He has 
referenced that his card was replaced three times in three months, and he recalls the 
delivery was not secure. Nationwides records show he has received three replacement 
cards since July 2018. Mr J has not provided any evidence as to why he feels the issuance 
of replacement cards may be the point of compromise  and the transaction was 
authenticated with his card that he still had at the time, his card reader and PIN  a PIN he 
says no-one knows  in order to generate a code. So I am unable to consider the fact he has 
had his card re-issued as a way to possibly explain how the disputed transaction was made. 
In addition the IP address data for the transaction is consistent with undisputed transactions 
and what that means is that the same digital location was used to make transactions that   
Mr J accepted as genuine - as this one that hes disputed. From what he has told us it 
seems unlikely that anyone without his knowledge could gain access to the same location to 
carry out the transaction using his debit card. 
Taking everything into account, I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to hold Mr J 
liable for the transaction and decline his claim. So I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I note Mr J more recently flagged that it is hard for him to access his money via ATMs and 
he also asked why all his security details had not been changed. I would suggest he 
contacts Nationwide to discuss the best way forward in his circumstances. I would remind 
Nationwide of its obligation to make reasonable adjustments if that becomes relevant here.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman