DRN-3966717
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Vitality Health Limited refused her claim for treatment under her private 
health insurance. 
What happened
Mrs P had private medical insurance through her employer which was underwritten by 
Vitality. In March 2022, Mrs P contacted Vitality to obtain authorisation for a consultation, 
which was provided. In the same call Mrs P advised Vitality that she was at risk of 
redundancy and wanted to know when her policy would end. Vitality advised it would be 
down to her employer as to when she was removed from the plan and she should speak with 
them. Vitality also explained that from the date she was removed, it wouldnt be able to cover 
any claims. Mrs P had her consultation appointment in April 2022.
On 6 May 2022, Mrs P was advised by the consultants office at the hospital that the cost for 
her treatment was refused by Vitality and that she would need to pay for this. The hospital 
said it has spoken to Vitality and was told her cover had ended on 13 April 2022 when she 
left her employment.
Unhappy about this Mrs P complained to Vitality. She said no one had told her that her cover 
had ended  she had spoken to Vitality on 3 May and also on 6 May and this hadnt been 
mentioned. Vitality looked into her complaint and said that her employer had let it know on 
4 May that her cover had ceased when she left employment - which was mid-April 2022. So, 
it didnt know prior to that date that her cover had ended. As her treatment was received 
after the date of her employment ending, Vitality refused to pay for the consultants bill. But it 
did apologise for not letting her know in the call she had made on 6 May that her cover had 
ceased. 
Mrs P remained unhappy with this outcome and brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter and found that the policy terms said that cover wouldnt 
be provided for treatment after the policy had been cancelled or the employee left the 
company. So, he didnt think Vitality had acted unfairly when declining the claim. But he did 
think that Vitality could have been clearer about when her cover would likely to end in the 
calls it had with her in May 2022. And so, he recommended Vitality pay Mrs P £100 
compensation.
Mrs P agreed with the investigators opinion, but Vitality didnt agree it should pay 
compensation. As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
On 16 January 2023 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint.
Was the claim declined fairly?
The terms and conditions of the private health insurance policy includes a section titled
Membership which states the following:
5.6 IF YOUR COMPANY PLAN IS CANCELLED OR YOU LEAVE THE COMPANY
If your company plan is cancelled for any reason, or if you leave the company, then cover for
you and your insured dependants will end on the cancellation date, or on your leaving date,
whichever is the earlier.
Once your cover under this plan ends, no further benefit will be payable for treatment
received after that date. This will be the case even if:
 the claim originally started before the cover ended, or
 you and/or your insured dependants are in the middle of treatment, or
 you and/or your insured dependants have pre-notified us of further treatment
required.
Vitality has declined to pay for a hospital consultation as this took place on 27 April 2022,
which was after Mrs P left her employment. The information above makes it clear that when
a member is no longer employed by their company, cover under the policy ceases and no
further claims will be paid for any treatment received after this date, even if it was authorised
prior to the date the person left the company. So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for
Vitality to decline this claim.
Vitalitys customer service
Mrs P says Vitality gave her incorrect information about her policy cover. She called Vitality
on 3 May and on 6 May, and she wasnt told that her cover had already been stopped by her
employer in April. Mrs P is unhappy that she had to hear about the termination of her cover
from the hospital and this caused her embarrassment.
Ive listened to the relevant calls Mrs P had with Vitality. In the initial call when this was
mentioned in March 2022, Mrs P asks about when her cover will end and whether it would
be when she is notified of her redundancy or if it will be when she leaves the company,
following a notice period. The advisor correctly explains that she isnt covered when she
leaves but that it would be down to her employer to decide when the cover would cease. So, 
Vitality recommended she speak to her employer about the date she would be removed.
Based on this conversation, I think it was made clear to Mrs P that the cover would end
when she was no longer employed but that it would be for her employers to confirm the
exact date.
In the call Mrs P had with Vitality on 3 May, she does explain that she has now left her
employment. Mrs P says she isnt sure when the policy ends but she believes it is at some
point in May. The advisor tells Mrs P that the company policy is due for renewal in June
2022. She then calls in again on 6 May to obtain an authorisation code to provide to the
hospital for the treatment she received in April  this was given to her.
Vitality has said that Mrs Ps former employers only notified it of the termination of her cover
on 4 May  so it wasnt aware when she called the day before this. But Vitality has accepted
that it did know her cover had ended when she called on 6 May and it has apologised for not
advising her at this point.
Ive considered this issue very carefully. As Mrs Ps cover had been terminated by her
employer in mid-April, I can understand her frustration at not being made aware of this
during these calls. However, as explained to her by Vitality in March, she wouldnt becovered when she left her employment, and it was for her employers to make her aware of
the date this would terminate. This means Mrs P was already aware of when her cover
would end prior to these calls in May  although I understand that the information about the
exact end date may not have been forthcoming from her employers.
When we consider payments for compensation following a mistake, we look at the overall
distress and inconvenience caused by the error, along with any financial impact. And, whilst I
know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, Im not persuaded that compensation is
due. Mrs P had already received the treatment from the hospital prior to these phone calls in
May  so the information given in these conversations didnt impact her financially as she
would always have needed to pay for this treatment. I do understand that the way she found
out about the date of the termination of her cover was not ideal, and it would have been
better to have been informed by Vitality rather than the hospital, but Vitality recognised it had
made an error and apologised for this mistake on the same day. I dont require it to do
anything more.
Neither party provided any responses to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider following 
the provisional decision, I see no reason to alter the outcome. Therefore, taking everything 
into account, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Vitality to decline Mrs Ps claim and, in 
relation to the customer service aspect of the complaint, I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman