DRN-4146602
The complaint
Mr H complains that Amtrust Europe Limited has not provided cover for a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr H made a claim on his policy for legal costs relating to a dispute with 
his neighbour. 
Amtrust referred the claim to one of its panel solicitors, who provided their advice in 
November 2020. The advice was that the claim did not have reasonable prospects of 
success, which was required for cover to be provided. 
Mr Hs daughter has a power of attorney to deal with his affairs and has been helping him 
with his claim throughout. She complained on his behalf in March 2021, saying Mr H had 
proved that his claim had prospects of success through a surveyors report; and there was a 
significant amount of land in dispute, so the value in dispute was proportionate to the costs 
of pursuing the case. 
Amtrust asked for details of any legal advice Mr H had obtained together with the surveyors 
report. Mr H had consulted his own solicitors and they sent an email in April 2021 saying, on 
the basis of the surveyors report, a claim for trespass and a boundary declaration had good 
prospects of success. On receipt of this, Amtrust arranged for counsel to advise on the case. 
Counsels advice was that: 
There were reasonable prospects of getting a determination that the position of the 
boundary follows the line suggested in the surveyors report, but it wasnt clear this 
meant Mr H could force the neighbour to remove a hedge that he said was in the 
wrong place. 
Even if Mr H he succeeded on the boundary dispute, it wouldnt automatically follow 
that the hedge amounted to a trespass; the defendant might be able to show they 
had adverse possession. 
It might be better to use the procedure in the Antisocial Behaviour Act to get the 
hedge trimmed.
The costs of doing this and/or costs of pursuing an alternative dispute resolution 
process should be covered, but not necessarily the costs of legal action. This would 
need to be kept under review.
In June 2021, Amtrust confirmed counsels advice was positive and asked Mr Hs daughter if 
he wanted to instruct his own solicitors to act for him. Amtrust said this would be subject to 
further information about whether the costs were proportionate and it would be for Mr H to 
obtain valuation evidence.
There was further correspondence about how to value the claim. Mr Hs solicitors said the 
value was the cost of reinstating the boundary; Amtrust said it would be the difference in the 
value of the land with and without the piece of land in dispute. Amtrust said it had to ensure 
the claim had prospects of success and the costs were proportionate before it would 
authorise costs
There was no agreement about the correct way to value the dispute. Amtrust didnt hear 
anything further until Mr Hs daughter complained to this service in December 2022 and we 
referred it to Amtrust to consider.  
In its response to the complaint Amtrust said: 
Cover is provided where a claim has reasonable prospects of success and the costs 
are proportionate.
It obtained counsels advice on these issues and was entitled to rely on that advice.
Its for the policyholder to prove they have a valid claim. Mr H had to show the claim 
he was pursuing was covered by the policy and was likely to succeed.
Mr H wanted the claim reopened and his costs covered. In view of how much time 
had passed it would be reasonable for him to provide a chronology of events since 
2021 and if he did so it would review the claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr Hs daughter remained unhappy and referred the complaint back to this service but our 
investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She didnt think Amtrust should have provided 
cover but even if it had agreed to this, it would have needed to agree terms of appointment 
with Mr Hs solicitors before their costs would be covered. She said Amtrusts offer to review 
the claim if it was provided with a timeline of what had happened since 2021 was fair.
Mr Hs daughter disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers costs for certain types of legal action. In this case, the relevant heads of 
cover are:  
Property Infringement: Advisers costs to pursue a legal action for nuisance or trespass 
against the person or organisation infringing your legal rights in relation to your main home
Property Damage: Advisers costs to pursue a legal action for financial compensation for 
damages against a person or organisation that causes physical damage to your main home 
or your personal effects. 
The policy terms say cover will only be provided where a claim has reasonable prospects of 
success. Most legal expenses insurance includes this requirement and I think its reasonable 
 it wouldnt be fair to expect an insurer to pay legal costs for a case thats not likely to 
succeed. The policy explains this as follows:
At any time we may form the view that you do not have a more than 50% chance of winning 
the case and achieving a positive outcome. If so, we may decline support or any further 
support.
Examples of positive outcomes are:
a. Being able to recover the amount of money at stake.
b. Being able to enforce a judgment.
c. Being able to achieve an outcome which best serves your interests.Id expect an insurer to obtain legal advice on this and Amtrust did so. It referred the claim to 
panel solicitors, who advised the claim wasnt likely to succeed. But when Mr H provided his 
own solicitors advice that disagreed with this Amtrust got a barristers opinion, which is in 
line with industry practice in these circumstances.
Mr Hs daughter says Amtrust should have opened the claim in line with Counsels advice. 
But the advice was that costs of the procedure in the Anti-Social Behaviour Act would be 
covered but not necessarily the cost of legal proceedings, which would need to be kept 
under review. I cant see where he said a claim should have been opened and the legal 
costs all covered.
There was then some debate between Amtrust and Mr Hs solicitors about the nature of the 
claim and how to value it. Amtrust said it would be the difference in the value of the land with 
and without the piece of land in dispute, while Mr H solicitors said the true value in dispute 
was the cost of rectifying the boundary once a determination had been made by the court. 
There was also some discussion about whether Mr H was pursuing a claim for trespass or 
simply for a declaration of where the boundary was. 
Mr Hs daughter said they had decided to press ahead with his court claim and then make a 
complaint to Amtrust about his claim not being covered. There was then a long delay before 
the complaint was pursued, during which time court proceedings were pursued.
Amtrust said it was for Mr H to provide a valuation of the land in dispute.  Since he had 
shown that he had a valid claim, it may have been reasonable for Amtrust to cover the cost 
of the report. But Mr Hs daughter and his solicitors didnt agree that was the right way to 
value the claim in any event and decided to continue with the legal claim for a declaration of 
the boundary line. That type of application on its own wouldnt fall within one of the heads of 
cover set out above. And they pursued the litigation without any further involvement from 
Amtrust. It was their choice to proceed in that way. They could have made a complaint then 
and clarified the nature of the litigation and whether cover should be provided before 
proceeding.
Mr Hs daughter is unhappy that Amtrust said the claim had to be pursued as trespass not a 
boundary dispute and said they didnt want to have to restart the whole process. But Amtrust 
only has to provide what the policy covers  a boundary dispute wouldnt be covered unless 
that is part of a claim for trespass or damage. Of course, it was for Mr H, his daughter and 
the solicitors to decide how to pursue his claim through the court. But Amtrust would only 
have to cover his costs if the claim was of a type thats covered under the policy terms and 
conditions.
From Amtrusts point of view, it had been told Mr H was claiming for a declaration of the 
boundary, which wouldnt be covered by the policy. Even if a valuation had been provided, 
Amtrust would still have needed to confirm the nature of the court case, confirm it was 
covered by the policy and agree terms of appointment with Mr Hs solicitors before cover 
was put in place. The policy doesnt cover costs incurred before the claim has been 
accepted and cover agreed. None of that took place.
Mr H proceeded with his case in 2021 and Amtrust didnt hear anything further until January 
2023. I know the situation has been very difficult for Mr H and his daughter and appreciate 
why they may not have found it easy dealing with everything. But in view of the amount of 
time that has passed and the fact Amtrust has had no involvement in the way the case has 
continued or the costs that have been incurred, I dont think it would be fair to expect it to 
pay those costs. 
I note from the court documents that the claim is for a declaration of the boundary. But it also refers to allegations of trespass and a claim for damages. It may be that would fall within the 
cover for trespass. However, Amtrust hasnt had the opportunity to consider that. In the 
circumstances its request to see a chronology of events since 2021 and offer to review the 
claim seems fair. If Mr H provides that information Amtrust can review the claim going 
forward. If theres still no agreement that could potentially be considered in a fresh 
complaint. But for the reasons given, the way it dealt with the claim in 2020 and 2021 was 
reasonable and as cover wasnt agreed nor terms of appointment agreed with Mr Hs 
solicitors, it would not be reasonable to expect it to cover the costs incurred to date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman