DRN-2897963
The complaint
X complains that Creation Financial Services Limited didnt make clear that there was an 
annual charge payable on her credit card.
What happened
X had a credit card with Creation Financial Services Limited (CFS). She says she took out 
the credit card because of information shed seen in a brochure it provided to her. She 
says she only realised there was a £99 annual fee after she received her credit card 
statement. She says that although this was recorded in the small print, she thinks CFS 
tried to hide this information from her.
She complained to CFS. It didnt uphold her complaint. It said the information about the 
fee was included in the marketing material. It referred to the box (coloured orange) in that 
material which stated there was a £99 annual fee for the card. It also referred to the terms 
and conditions for the card which stated there was a £99 fee for the card.
X wasnt satisfied with this response. She complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaint. She asked CFS to provide her with a copy of the screenshots 
which X wouldve been presented with when shed applied for the card. It didnt do that. So, 
our investigator was only able to take into account the information shed been provided with.
Our investigator thought CFS hadnt highlighted the fee sufficiently in the terms and 
conditions or in the information presented to X. She said X had decided to cancel the card 
and she thought CFS should refund the annual fee to her.
CFS didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CFS has now provided our service with copies of all of the information it says 
it provided to X before she accepted the credit card terms and conditions. So, 
Ive been able to review all of that information and Ive set out below what it 
said about the annual fee.
The marketing material
I can see this sets out all of the benefits of the card at the start of the leaflet. 
The representative example which includes details about the £99 fee is set 
out towards the end of the leaflet. So, I agree with X that it hasnt been 
given equal prominence to the benefits of the card. But, despite that I cant 
say that it has been hidden. It is presented in a box with an orange 
background and it clearly states there is an annual fee of £99 for the card. 
Further details are then set out in the footnote. So, I think CFS did do 
enough to bring the fee to Xs attention in the marketing information.
Ive also looked at the information CFS provided to X before she accepted 
the terms and conditions. CFS says X applied for the card online and its 
provided evidence to our service that the application was made on 14 
February 2020. So, Im satisfied this was an online application.
I asked CFS to provide details of everything that was presented to X during 
the online application process. As mentioned above, it hadnt done that 
when our investigator considered this complaint. But, its now provided this 
information to us. Its told us that during this process X was presented with a 
number of important documents. Its provided copies of those documents.
Summary Box
In line with best practice guidelines published by the UK Cards Association 
(now part of UK Finance) CFS presented X with a Summary Box. The 
Summary Box was set out in the standard format included in the 
guidelines.
The purpose of the Summary Box is to provide consumers with meaningful 
information about the credit card  without overloading them with 
information.
In this case the Summary Box included information about fees. It stated:
Fees - Annual Fee: £99 to be charged on the first statement date 
and annually thereafter. The full annual fee will be payable on the 
due date and will incur interest at the Standard Purchases rate if 
not paid in full within that statement month.
Pre-Contract Information document
In addition, X was presented with a document which set out the main 
terms of her agreement. Section three of this document is entitled Costs 
of credit and included information about rates of interest, the Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) and related costs. It also included information 
about other costs deriving from the credit agreement and stated:
Annual Fee £99 payable in full in your first statement 
month and annually thereafter.
The agreement
There is a reference to the Annual Fee in section 16 of the agreement. 
There isnt any other reference to it in the agreement.
Having considered all of the information that was presented to X before 
she accepted the terms and conditions, on balance, Im satisfied CFS did 
enough to bring the annual fee to her attention. It mentioned the fact that 
there was an annual fee in each of the documents presented. And, it 
stated the amount of the annual fee in all of the documents except for the 
agreement itself. So, although X says that she wouldnt have taken out the card had she realised there was a charge, Im not persuaded that 
CFS provided misleading information or that the fee was hidden in small 
print.
X indicated to our service that she intended to cancel the card. Shes 
entitled to do that. But, having considered everything here, Im satisfied CFS 
did do what it was required to do by bringing the nature and amount of the 
annual fee to her attention in the way that it was required to. So, although I 
know it will disappoint X, based on what Ive seen so far, my provisional 
decision is that I dont intend to require CFS to refund the annual fee of £99 
to her or to take any further action to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I do not intend to uphold this complaint about 
Creation Financial Services Limited.
CFS accepted my provisional decision and said it had no further comments to make.
X did not accept my provisional decision. She said shed not seen the literature referred to in 
the provisional decision. She reiterated that the initial contact had been by telephone and 
thered been no mention during that call of a £99 fee. She said she had no recollection of 
having filled in an online application form. She thought the evidence CFS had produced to 
say that she had done so contained an IP address which was different, by two digits, to the 
IP address for her computer.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the evidence CFS provided to our service about the online application it 
says X made. Its provided screenshots from its internal systems which show details about 
X. There is an application ID, a date/time stamp and an IP (internet protocol) address 
recorded. The screenshot also says that this was a web application. 
X has referred to having initially contacted CFS by telephone. She says she was then sent 
literature to activate the card. She says she has no recollection of filling in an online 
application form. She thinks the application was made by telephone and the form was then 
completed by a third party. Shes queried the IP address that appears on the screenshot 
provided by CFS.
Ive thought about what X has mentioned about the IP address. Its not clear why the IP 
address is slightly different. I understand that certain types of IP address can change from 
time to time. So, on its own, Im not persuaded that this supports what shes said about not 
making an online application. And, although X has told us shes no recollection of filling in an 
online application form, having considered everything here, Im satisfied, on balance, that the 
evidence CFS has provided supports the conclusion that this was an online application.
X says she didnt get anything other than the literature shes mentioned. As I said in my 
provisional decision that literature did mention the £99 fee. It had been presented in a box 
with an orange background and further details were set out in a footnote. So, I didnt think that CFS had hidden this information or that it hadnt been brought to Xs attention in the 
marketing information. That remains my view.
In my provisional decision, I also said that X wouldve been presented with the other 
documents that Ive referred to during the online application process. And, Im satisfied that 
those documents also made clear that there was a £99 annual fee for the card. 
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
that, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, this complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman