DRN-2560965
The complaint
Mr W says Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) wrongly suspended trading in the Oil21April20 
futures contract he held a Contract for Differences (CFD) position in and wrongly rolled over 
his position  from the April contract to the May/June contract  before it expired and without 
his consent. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and found mainly as follows:
She referred to Mr Ws claim that he lost around £7,500 from T212s mishandling of 
his position.
She concluded that the complaint should not be upheld.
She referred to Mr W opening the position on 20 April 2020; to US oil prices going 
into negative territory for the first time in history on this date; to Mr Ws position 
expiring on the following day (21 April) and being exposed to the market events that 
resulted from the negative prices; to the key market events being illiquidity and 
increased volatility in the underlying for Mr Ws position, thereby causing unreliability 
of prices; to the terms agreed for Mr Ws account which gave T212 the ability to 
suspend trading in such circumstances; and to Mr Ws evidence about prior industry 
notice that was available to T212 and what it should have done  but did not do  in 
preparation for the event.
She concluded that T212s conduct was reasonably within the terms for the account 
and that the rollover resulted in a margin requirement breach in the account which 
entitled T212  based on the terms for the account  to close the position.
Mr W disagreed with this outcome. He maintained that T212 failed to prepare for the 
negative market pricing despite having received prior warning from the industry about what 
to do to prepare for it; that it remains a fact that T212 rolled over his position before it expired 
and such rollover was supposed to happen only upon expiry (not before); that the early 
rollover led directly to his loss, because the price differential between the April and May 
contracts on 20 April was more than it became the following day; that this meant the rollover 
related price adjustment was also more detrimental than it would have been if the rollover 
had happened the following day; and it is this detrimental price adjustment that led to the 
margin breach in his account.
The matter was then referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The margin breach that happened in Mr Ws execution only account is not in dispute. The 
same applies to the margin requirement/maintenance/call regime that operated for the 
account. That too is not in dispute, especially as section 9 of the agreed terms sets out the 
minimum margin level required in the account, sets out that it was the account holders 
responsibility to monitor and maintain that margin level and sets out T212s right to close 
positions in the account upon a breach of an accounts minimum margin level. It is agreed 
that such a breach happened in Mr Ws account, leading to closure of his position.
The fall, into negative territory, of US oil prices on 20 April 2020 is also not in dispute. Mr W 
is correct in saying the futures market/sector anticipated, beforehand, the possibility or 
probability of an event like that and provided guidance to firms in the sector on how to 
prepare for it. I accept his evidence in this respect and I understand his argument that his 
experience could or would have been different, and better, if T212 had taken the 
precautionary measures suggested by the guidance.
T212s reaction to guidance within the sector was at its discretion. I have not been referred 
to any relevant regulatory order(s) prior to 20 April 2020 that T212 breached, so the 
guidance that anticipated the event was for T212 to consider if it wished, but it was not 
obliged to follow the guidance. This finding is supported by the fact that T212s account 
terms made provisions for what could be done in cases of market unrest and unreliability, so 
whilst Mr W says T212 should have followed the guidance it cannot fairly be said that T212 
did not have a meaningful alternative to rely upon.
That alternative  extending to the rollover matter  is where dispute exists between the 
parties. The alternative was suspension of the Oil21April20 contract. Mr W does not accept 
that the suspension was reasonable because he says there was no corresponding 
suspension in the underlying market, which continued to trade. I understand this point too, 
however the relevant term for the account that justifies T212s suspension of the contract did 
not make suspension in the underlying market a pre-requisite. That term (section 6.10) 
simply gave T212 sole discretion to suspend the contract.
In practice, this service would expect a firms contractual discretion to be exercised on 
reasonable grounds and in a reasonable manner. The state of affairs on 20 April 2020 was 
such that whilst the underlying futures oil market might not have been suspended it was a 
volatile and illiquid market. I accept the evidence T212 has submitted to this service to prove 
this and it does not appear that Mr W has much, if any, of a dispute about how volatile the 
market was at the time. 
The combination of illiquidity (the scarcity of participants in the market prepared to trade and 
low trading volume) and price volatility usually leads to unreliable market prices and I am 
persuaded that this was the case in relation to the Oil21April20 contract. T212 has presented 
market pricing evidence showing how this led to extreme market spreads and evidence 
showing a drastic drop in trading volume. For these reasons, it says it could not safely 
execute orders for the contract and that led to the suspension and rollover action it applied.
I am satisfied, on balance, thatT212 had reasonable grounds  as summarised above  to 
exercise its discretion to apply the suspension. 
The next consideration is whether (or not) it applied the suspension in a reasonable manner. 
As stated above, it coupled suspension of the contract with rollover into the next months 
contract, so the rollover matter features here. Mr W is correct in saying that the rollovers 
applied only upon expiry of the initial contract. It does not appear that T212 disputes this, 
what it appears to have said is that, overall, its decision to suspend the contract and to roll it 
over was reasonable, when viewed as a single reaction on its part to the market event at the 
time. On balance, I agree.
Mr Ws argument about how his position/account would have been better off if the rollover 
happened upon expiry on 21 April, instead of before expiry on 20 April, benefits from 
hindsight. As events were unfolding on 20 April neither he nor T212 knew, with certainty, what would transpire the following day. As such, I do not consider that T212 was responsible 
for knowingly or recklessly creating Mr Ws loss or was aware its action would create a larger 
loss for Mr W than would have been the case if it acted in the same way the following day. It 
also follows, that in a different set of circumstances where prices for the position were worse 
on 21 April than on 20 April, T212s action on 20 April could, arguably, have benefitted Mr W.
The April contract was suspended because T212 could no longer quote prices for it on 20 
April and in order to maintain Mr Ws open position the rollover was immediately applied. I 
accept that this was done without his knowledge and consent  and that it was done a day 
early. However, it should be noted that the rollover facility applied automatically for CFDs on 
futures in the account  section 17.5 of the terms confirmed this  so the argument about 
knowledge and consent falls away somewhat; and whilst it was supposed to apply 
automatically on 21 April and not manually on 20 April, the latter happened because T212 
was having to react to market events in which prices in the underlying were volatile, the 
underlying was illiquid and the April contract had been suspended because reliable prices 
could not be quoted for it. The impact does not appear to have extended to the next contract 
to follow, so it rolled the position over into the next contract in this wider context. 
The automatic effect, at the point of a positions expiry (and not before), of rollover provisions 
should not be taken lightly and action outside of such provisions is not something that should 
normally be condoned. However, in some cases particular facts and particular 
circumstances mean that this service can apply a fair and reasonable approach to 
determining such a matter in the contexts of the relevant circumstances. I consider  without 
creating or suggesting any precedent  that this can be applied in the present case. Overall, 
on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that T212 was wrong to apply 
the rollover a day early.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman