The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a packaged
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr P paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return.
He thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
What happened
I understand that Mr P has been a customer of Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank 
of Scotland has looked into its records for him and has told us that he first opened one of its 
fee-fee accounts during the 1990s. He changed the type of account he held several times 
but until March 2011, he always had a fee-free account. Bank of Scotland then sold him the 
URCA, which he kept until early 2020, when he went back to a fee-free account. 
I believe that Bank of Scotlands records about Mr Ps account history are probably reliable, 
and I have taken them to be correct. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to him. Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review him case. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mr Ps case. Ive looked into
everything that Mr P and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr P almost ten years ago, neither side has been 
able to send us any detailed records from the time. So, when I cant be sure what happened,
Ive used the evidence which is available to decide what is most likely to have occurred.
In 2011, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks was allowed to sell PBAs in two ways. It 
could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) basis; or 
as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as giving Mr P a choice, I 
would have expected Bank of Scotland to tell him about the URCAs costs and benefits 
clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if he needed 
the benefits which the account could provide. 
DRN-1665271On our questionnaire, Mr P told us that Bank of Scotland sold him URCA over the counter in 
one of its branches and advised him to buy it. Bank of Scotland has said that it can no longer 
tell if it sold the account by telephone, through one its branches or in some other way; but it 
has said that in 2011 its policy was not to advise customers about URCAs. I accept this was 
its usual practice and I havent seen sufficiently convincing evidence for me to think it 
changed its procedures for Mr P. So, I have considered his case as a non-advised sale. 
In 2011, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. Within certain limits, Bank of Scotland 
also raised lower charges to customers with URCAs who overdrew their accounts than it 
usually applied to customers with fee-free accounts. Depending on how customers with 
URCAs used their accounts, they could sometimes save more in lower overdraft charges 
than they paid in monthly fees. 
Throughout our investigation into Mr Ps complaint, he has been very clear about why he 
thinks Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to him. Hes said that Bank of Scotland told him 
that he had to buy the URCA in order to obtain an overdraft. (He) did not require any of the 
additional benefits, simply an overdraft. (He) was told there were no fee-free accounts 
offering an overdraft. Hes also us that over the years he paid more in fees than he may 
have saved though lower overdraft charges.
Firstly, I would like to clarify that in 2011 Bank of Scotland did allow customers with fee-free 
accounts to hold overdrafts; and has continued to do so throughout the period of time 
relevant to this complaint. However, that point is not in dispute. The crux of Mr Ps case is 
whether Bank of Scotland told him that the only way he could have an overdraft was to buy 
the URCA. To do so would have been wrong, misleading and unfair. 
Bank of Scotland has denied misleading Mr P. It has sent us more information from his 
account history, which it says shows he had held an overdraft before he bought the URCA, 
with his limit varying from time-to-time. In these circumstances it says it couldnt have told 
him had to take an URCA to get an overdraft, as this would not have matched his personal 
experience and what he already knew. 
Mr P has accepted that he previously held an overdraft and has recently explained that Bank 
of Scotland told him that he would need to take the Ultimate Reward Current Account to 
keep the overdraft as there would no longer be free accounts with an overdraft facility.
I fully accept that Mr P is doing his best to recall what happened, but I find unlikely the Bank 
of Scotland misled him in the way he has described. It seems to me that Bank of Scotland 
must have let Mr P know about overdrafts on fee-fee accounts; and as it wasnt withdrawing 
them, I doubt it told Mr P the opposite when it sold him the URCA. It seems far more likely to 
me that Bank of Scotland told Mr P about the lower charges that would apply if he bought 
the URCA, and that these lower costs would not have been available to him with a fee-free 
account. As this was true, it would not have been misleading or unfair. 
I dont have sufficient information to tell for sure if over the years Mr P paid more in monthly 
fees for the URCA than he saved in lower overdraft charges, but I am happy to accept his 
comments that he did. However, this does not automatically mean that Bank of Scotland 
mis-sold the URCA to him. Bank of Scotlands responsibility was to tell Mr P how the lower 
charges worked. Im satisfied that it did this. Mr P has acknowledged that he knew about the 
monthly fees and as Bank of Scotland was trying to sell the URCA to him it was in its own 
interests to tell him what he could get in return. For similar reasons, I also think that Bank of 
Scotland told Mr P about the other benefits of the account.I accept Mr Ps remarks that he now thinks he didnt want the other benefits of the URCA, 
and he has explained that he had alternatives in place, but that would have been something 
for him to consider for himself at the time. 
As I doubt that Bank of Scotland told Mr P it was withdrawing overdrafts from fee-free 
accounts, I also think it probably allowed him a choice to keep his fee-free account or to buy 
the URCA. 
So, in summary, although I cant tell for sure if Bank of Scotland got everything right for Mr P, 
I dont think that it mis-sold the URCA to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Bank of
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman