DRN-3655665
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy because Barclays Bank PLC UK (Barclays) declined to refund all of the 
approximately £40,000 he lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every 
detail of what happened here. But in summary, in October 2020 Mr L was tricked into 
sending a series of payments totalling approximately £40,000 in the belief he was making 
legitimate investments. 
Mr L was contacted by a stranger on a messaging application, who claimed they thought his 
number belonged to their friend. Nevertheless, they began corresponding and after some 
time she told him about an investment opportunity in a new cryptocurrency and platform. 
She told him he could expect high returns with a limited risk of loss as she had insider 
information - though didnt give any specific rate of return. Believing his contact to be 
genuine and having seen the website for the proposed investment scheme, he was 
persuaded to invest. 
Mr L sent a series of eight payments, not all to the same account. Mr L was given access to 
what appeared to be a cryptocurrency account, and had access to the purported terms and 
conditions on the trading platform website. The scam came to light after he sent the funds to 
purchase the scam currency and he was unable to withdraw anything, and then the websites 
were taken down. 
Mr L raised the matter with Barclays. Barclays investigated Mr Ls complaint and after initially 
declining to refund any of the payments, offered to refund 50% of all bar the first two 
payments. In summary, they didnt think Mr L had established that he had met the requisite 
level of care when he was making the payments. They did accept that they had not given an 
effective warning at the time of the payments, which is why they offered to refund half of 
some of the payments. However, the first two payments were of lower amounts, and so they 
said they were not liable to refund half of these amounts as they didnt need to provide an 
effective warning in these circumstances. They also said that the receiving bank that was 
signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the CRM code) had confirmed 
they were not liable for any losses in this case  and the other funds were sent to a business 
who were not signed up to the CRM code. 
Mr L was unhappy that Barclays declined to refund more of his losses so asked our service 
to investigate his complaint. Our investigator looked at what had happened, and they thought 
that Barclays offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. They agreed that no 
effective warning was necessary for the first two payments, but that one ought to have been 
given for the remaining payments. They also agreed that Barclays had not given Mr L an 
effective warning. But they did not think that Mr L had a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payments he was making were going towards a legitimate investment. Mr L did not 
agree, he said he accepted that he may not fairly be entitled to a refund for all of his losses 
but thought 75% was a fairer figure. In summary, he said: 
The transactions ought reasonably to have flagged as unusual or out of character for 
him as they involved a number of new payees, they were for significant sums of 
money which were not in line with his usual account activity. 
As the payments could be considered unusual and uncharacteristic, Barclays should 
have further intervened. He felt they should have contacted him to find out more 
about the purpose and recipient of the payments, including asking to see any 
relevant documentation. 
Had they done so, they would likely have prevented some of his losses, as well as 
the impact on his mental well-being. 
As agreement could not be reached the complaint has now been passed over to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Service 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have considered whether 
Barclays should reimburse some or all of the money Mr L lost in line with the provisions of 
the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect 
Mr L from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The CRM Code 
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. It sets out standards that 
banks, such as Barclays, are expected to meet in terms of protecting their customers from 
financial harm. But it also sets out expectations that a customer should meet, too. As a 
starting point, a customer should receive a full refund if they fall victim to an authorised push 
payment scam such as this one. 
There appears to be no dispute that Mr L was the victim of an authorised push payment 
scam here. He thought he was investing money, but instead it went to a scammer. But, Mr L 
would not be entitled to a full refund if Barclays can fairly and reasonably demonstrate, as 
they have asserted, that Mr L has failed to meet the requisite level of care under one of more 
of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Mr L have a reasonable basis for belief? 
Unfortunately, I think the evidence suggests that Mr L did not have a reasonable basis for 
believing that he was dealing with a legitimate financial business when he made the transfer. 
I say this because: 
I recognise Mr L was speaking with the scammer for some time before they even mentioned the cryptocurrency investment opportunity, but I find the initial introduction 
itself very unusual, such that it should have given cause for concern. Mr L said that 
he met the person he was speaking with when they messaged him on a messaging 
application, thinking they were messaging someone else. The contact came out of 
the blue, from a total stranger who had no links to him or anyone else he knew. It is 
also unusual that a genuine investment opportunity would be discussed over the 
messaging application, rather than more official channels. 
Given the nature of how Mr L met the scammer, I would have expected him to have 
done further checks or sought advice prior to sending these large sums of money to 
new and unknown payees. The only information Mr L had was from the 
correspondence with the person he was speaking to and other purported linked 
parties, and the information on the website for the alleged investment. 
Mr L was told that he could make very high returns with limited risk due to insider 
information. I do think that this is improbable to the point of being too good to be true. 
I appreciate he thought he was getting in on a new platform and cryptocurrency, but it 
would seem strange that a stranger on a messaging application should want to offer 
him this, and that there would be little risk associated with such an offer. 
Mr L was provided with instructions for what to do if the bank asked him any 
questions about the transactions from both the scammer and the third party he spoke 
with. Mr L was instructed that he should tell the bank it was his money and they could 
not interfere with what he did with it, should they get in touch. I think this ought to 
have given Mr L cause for concern  it does not seem to be something a legitimate 
company would have reason to say to him. 
Whilst some of these factors in and of themselves may not have persuaded Mr L not to 
make the payments, when considered collectively and considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round I think there were sufficient unusual 
factors here that Mr L ought to have acted more cautiously than he did. 
I am satisfied, therefore, that Mr L did not have a reasonable basis for believing he was 
making a payment for a legitimate investment, so Barclays are not required to give him a full 
refund under the CRM code. 
Did Mr L ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment being made? 
The code also sets out standards that banks are expected to meet, as I explained above. 
Barclays needs to be on the lookout for factors that might indicate an enhanced risk that Mr 
Ls payment instructions were being made as part of a scam. Where they identify such a 
risk, the bank needs to take reasonable steps to provide the customer with an effective 
warning. 
Barclays, in their submissions to this service, explained that the first two payments did not 
require any warning to be given  and I agree. I dont consider the first two payments were 
out of the ordinary and therefore I do not think Barclays ought to have identified a scam risk. 
The two payments were for - £109.50 and £963.49  and whilst I appreciate these are not 
inconsequential figures, they are not particularly large. I do not think there was anything 
sufficiently unusual about the payments that they ought to have put the bank on notice. And 
so, I dont think Barclays needed to provide warnings for these payments. 
The third payment is for a far higher amount  over £9,000  which was unusual and out of 
character when compared to Mr Ls account history. Barclays have accepted that this 
payment and the subsequent payments ought to have triggered an effective warning. They 
also accept that they failed to provide such a warning in the payment process or when they 
called Mr L about one of the payments. They have recognised that they had the opportunity 
to prevent the loss, and so they cannot rely on this exception to the reimbursement. In the 
circumstances, Barclays should be at least in part responsible and so, under the CRM code, it should be liable for 50% of the losses from the third payment onwards  which is what they 
offered. 
Should Barclays have done more to protect Mr L?
In addition to their responsibilities under the CRM code, when Mr L made the payments, 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual and 
out of character transactions or other signs that might indicate that Mr L was at risk of fraud 
or financial harm (amongst other things). 
I am satisfied that the third payment was unusual and out of character for Mr Ls account, as 
I outlined above. So, I think Barclays ought reasonably to have asked him more questions 
about it to satisfy themselves that he was not at risk of fraud or financial harm. I agree with 
Mr L that they should have asked questions about the nature and purpose of the payments  
including what the investment was for, how he found out about it, the rate of return and what 
checks he had completed. 
However, even if I were to conclude that Mr L, against the scammers instructions, were to 
be honest and the scam uncovered, the outcome of this complaint would be the same. I say 
this because whilst the starting position in a case where the bank ought to have noticed 
unusual payments and prevented the loss is that the bank should refund in full, I am still 
required to consider Mr Ls actions. Given what I outlined above  the lack of checks, where 
and how he found out about the investment opportunity, the scammers instructions about 
what to do if the bank got in touch  I think it is fair to say that Mr Ls negligence also led to 
the loss. This means he also would have some responsibility for the loss. So, under these 
rules, my answer would remain that Barclays ought to refund 50% of the loss from the third 
payment onwards. 
Recovery 
I have also considered whether Barclays could have done more to try to recover the money 
once it had been told of the scam. We would expect a business to take reasonable steps to 
try and recover the money from the bank it was sent to. Barclays did try to recover the funds 
Mr L sent to other banks within a short amount of time  and were able to evidence that they 
had contacted one of the banks within 15 minutes of Mr L reporting the scam in June 2021. 
They were unable to recover any funds from this bank. They were unable to evidence when 
they contacted the other bank. However, our investigator contacted the third party business 
who confirmed that no funds remained in the account by June 2021. So I dont think 
Barclays could have recovered Mr Ls funds here. 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, if they have not already done so, Barclays Bank UK Plc 
should now: 
Refund Mr L 50% of the money he lost from the third payment onwards; and
Pay the interest rate at the rate of Mr Ls savings account from the dates of the scam 
payments to the date of the settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman