DRN-3856120
The complaint
Mr O complains that he couldnt make a complaint to Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
In February 2022, Mr O called Lloyds five times. He wanted to make a formal complaint. 
Mr O complained. He said it proved impossible to make a complaint to Lloyds. He said 
Lloyds complaint handlers wouldnt take instructions regarding the complaint; refused to 
provide him with a reference number; tried to manipulate complaints reference numbers; and 
wasted his time. He said hed made four online complaints to Lloyds but none had been 
actioned.
He wants Lloyds to explain why they made it difficult to complain; and he wants 
compensation of £300 for the time wasted and inconvenience caused.
Lloyds apologised that when Mr O called - they couldnt locate the complaints that Mr O had 
logged online. They also apologised that two calls had been disconnected in error. They said 
the call handlers tried to help Mr O.  Lloyds said that logging a complaint can be time 
consuming but it was done that way so they could best understand it  and so it would be 
investigated fairly.  Lloyds paid compensation of £100.
Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds handled his complaint 
reasonably. She agreed with Lloyds final response, said Lloyds had apologised and paid 
compensation of £100.
Mr O didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Os complaint is about Lloyds complaint handling process: specifically, that 
he logged four complaints online, and these were lost; and the way in which his calls were 
handled when he called Lloyds on 4 February 2022. 
Let me say at the outset what our role is: we are not a consumer group  we dont take 
sides. We are independent and impartial and our role is to listen to both sides of a complaint, 
take evidence from both parties, and then decide on a fair and reasonable outcome.
Online complaints: Mr O has said that he logged four calls online with Lloyds, and these 
were lost  and therefore not dealt with. Lloyds have searched for these  and as their final 
response says, they havent been able to locate them. And  their submission to us about Mr 
Os complaint said the same thing. I have seen Lloyds records, and theres no indication of 
four online complaints - we wouldve expected to see a record if they were logged. So here  
I have no other information to go on and must accept what Lloyds have said. Lloyds have 
included this aspect of Mr Os complaint in the award of compensation theyve made.
Calls on 4 February 2022: I listened to the five calls that took place between 9.51am and 
11.04am. In two of the calls, Lloyds call handler wanted to detail and record Mr Os 
complaint  and therefore both calls took a long time. Each took more than 30 minutes. But 
the call handlers said they wanted to ensure the complaint details were properly recorded so 
Mr Os complaint could be understood and looked at. While I can see that this caused some 
frustration for Mr O, it was a necessary part of Lloyds process to do that. So  I think that 
was a reasonable thing for Lloyds call handlers to do.
In each of the calls, I heard Mr O get increasingly frustrated  he said Lloyds wouldnt log his 
complaints. But equally, Lloyds call handlers asked several times on the calls what Mr Os 
complaint was about  and he would only say each time I want to make a complaint or that 
the complaint was about my account. 
I think its reasonable for Lloyds to ask specifically  what Mr Os complaint was about so 
they could properly investigate it. For example, which account or product was involved, what 
happened, when, what Mr Os particular issue was, how he had been affected, and what he 
would like Lloyds to do about it. All that is reasonable information to ask for. But 
unfortunately, Mr O wouldnt give that detail to Lloyds. And as a result, the calls werent 
productive. And unfortunately, this led to Mr O becoming more frustrated and, at some 
points, aggressive. So here, on balance, I think it was fair for Lloyds to ask Mr O what his 
complaint was about  but Mr O wouldnt provide that.
Mr O says that some of the calls ended with Lloyds hanging up on him  but I didnt hear 
evidence that was the case  if it was, Id have expected the call handler to say that was 
going to happen, but they didnt. I heard the line just go dead on each call. Lloyds have said 
two calls may have dropped out. But equally, I heard Mr O say on the fifth call that hed 
hung up on the first call  so it seems reasonable for me to say that its likely that either the 
calls dropped out, or certainly in one case, Mr O discontinued the call. So  I cant conclude 
that Lloyds call handlers hung up the calls.
Mr O has said that Lloyds wouldnt give him the reference numbers of his complaints. On the 
third call, I heard Lloyds call handler give him the reference number of one live complaint 
and said there werent any others. I think its more likely than not that Mr O was looking for 
the reference numbers of the online complaints  which of course, wouldnt have been 
available as Lloyds didnt have a record of them. So  while this was frustrating, I dont think 
Lloyds were at fault here.
Mr O also said Lloyds tried to manipulate complaint reference numbers by combining them. 
On the fourth and fifth call  I heard Lloyds call handler say that they wanted to check if Mr 
Os new complaint (that he was making at that time) was the same as the earlier complaint 
he made that day. They explained they wanted to do that to ensure there wasnt any 
duplication i.e. so the complaint could be properly looked at. I think that was a reasonable 
thing for the call handlers to do. 
Lloyds have apologised that the four online complaints hadnt been logged, and that calls 
may have been disconnected. They paid compensation of £100. And in the circumstances of 
this case, I think that was a reasonable way for Lloyds to deal with Mr Os complaint. And 
while I know this will be disappointing for Mr O, Im not asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman