DRN-2857854
The complaint
Mr C complains about delays and poor service when contacting Barclays Bank UK PLC 
about a cash machine withdrawal that didnt go through. 
What happened
At the beginning of November 2020 Mr C tried to withdraw £10 from a third party cash 
machine but his money wasnt dispensed. Mr C used a different cash machine to complete 
his withdrawal. Mr C called Barclays but says that, after around 20 minutes on hold, he had 
to end the call. Mr C called back later in the evening and waited over two hours before 
ending the call without being able to speak with anyone at Barclays. 
Mr C called Barclays back the following day and spoke with someone. A dispute regarding 
the cash machine was raised and the £10 Mr C tried to withdraw was refunded. During the 
call, Mr C said he wanted to complain but the call handler didnt register it for him. 
Mr C called Barclays back and complained. Barclays dealt with Mr Cs complaint whilst he 
was on the phone. Barclays apologised for the delays Mr C had experienced and said call 
waiting times had increased substantially due to the impact of Covid on how it operates. 
Barclays case handler also said feedback would be given to the person Mr C had spoken 
with about the cash machine dispute earlier in the day. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclays had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr C 
asked to appeal and reiterated that he felt the call wait times were unacceptable and that 
someone had refused to log a formal complaint when he called. As Mr C has asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Mr C waited a very long time when he first called to report a problem 
with a cash withdrawal. Mr C has provided evidence that shows his first call was abandoned 
after around 20 minutes. Mr Cs second attempt was made at around 9pm and abandoned 
over two hours later without being able to speak with anyone. I agree that Mr C waited a very 
long time and can understand why he was frustrated that he wasnt able to speak with a 
member of staff. 
I have to be fair to both parties and Barclays has explained that, due to Covid, its operating 
in very challenging conditions. Barclays has explained its phone lines were staffed when Mr 
C called, but that due to the limitations there were unavoidable delays in answering 
customer calls. Mr C has explained that he feels Barclays has used the pandemic as an 
excuse, but I havent found the delay was caused by avoidable problems with Barclays. I 
think the length of time Mr C was on hold reflects the fact that Barclays ability to provide its 
normal services was significantly impacted by limitations on the way it operates. I agree it 
was inconvenient for Mr C, but I think that reflects the situation as a whole. 
Mr C called Barclays back the following day and £10 was refunded to his account. Mr C has 
explained he tried to complain but the first person he spoke with didnt record a formal 
complaint. Mr C went on to call Barclays back and was connected with the complaints 
department. During that call, the complaint handler apologised for the delays Mr C had 
experienced the day before and gave some context as to the reasons behind it. The call 
handler also said they would arrange for feedback to be provided to the first person Mr C 
spoke with. 
I understand my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C but Im satisfied 
Barclays dealt with his complaint fairly. We all experience a degree of inconvenience from 
time to time. But for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied the delays Mr C experienced 
reflect the impact of the pandemic on Barclays ability to operate as normal, rather than an 
avoidable delay. Its unfortunate Mr Cs concerns werent initially dealt with. But Im satisfied 
he was able to quickly speak with a complaint handler who considered and responded to his 
concerns on Barclays behalf. As Im satisfied Barclays dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im 
not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman