DRN-2894823
The complaint
Ms Z complains that Equifax Limited isnt reporting the correct date of registration for the 
electoral roll on her credit file. 
What happened
Ms Z has told us she moved to her current property in 1981. Ms Zs Equifax credit file says 
she registered on the electoral roll in 1983. 
Earlier this year, Ms Z complained to Equifax that it was reporting the wrong dates of 
registration for the electoral roll. Equifax didnt uphold Ms Zs complaint and she referred it to 
this service. 
An investigator looked at the case and said Equifaxs systems dont allow it to report 
electoral roll information that predates 1983. The investigator said there was no impact to 
Ms Z caused by the way Equifax reported her electoral roll registration date. Ms Z asked to 
appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Z has provided a letter from her local council that confirms she was registered on the 
electoral roll from 1982 onwards, not 1981. But Equifax has said the earliest date its systems 
can record electoral roll registration is 1983. Equifax has confirmed it has no way to report 
an earlier date. 
Whilst I understand Ms Z wants Equifax to record the correct registration date, I have to take 
into account that it cant report 1982 because of the way its systems work. I cant force 
Equifax to change its systems so Ive considered whether theres been any impact to Ms Z 
caused by the difference between 1982 and 1983 as the reported date of electoral roll 
registration. 
Ms Z hasnt told us about any specific problems shes encountered caused by the difference 
in dates. And Equifax says lenders are generally only interested in the last six years when 
assessing applications. I havent found anything that shows Ms Z has been unfairly impacted 
by the date of her electoral roll registration showing as 1983 instead of 1982. 
Our main focus when considering a complaint it to ensure the consumer hasnt lost out as a 
result of an act or omission by a business. As Ive said above, I havent seen anything that 
shows Ms Z lost out as a result of how Equifax reports the date of electoral roll registration 
on her credit file. Equifax has now explained why the date shows as 1983 instead of 1982. 
Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve this complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman