DRN-2978314
The complaint
Miss C complains that Zurich Insurance PLC have unfairly declined her business interruption 
claim after her tenant left without paying rent. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
The policy terms and conditions set out what is covered under the business interruption 
section of the policy:
In the event of any building or other property used by you at the premises of the 
business being lost, destroyed or damaged by any of the insured covers applicable 
to this section during the period of insurance and in consequence the business carried 
on by you at the premises be interrupted or interfered with then we will pay to you:
a) In respect of loss of rent receivable: the amount by which the rent receivable 
during the indemnity period falls short of the standard rent receivable in 
consequence of the incident.
So the policy covers loss of rent that has been caused by the premises being lost, destroyed 
or damaged by an insured event. The policy defines damage as:
Loss or destruction of or damage to the property insured. 
In the circumstances of Miss Cs claim, the loss of rent has been caused by the tenant 
leaving the property while owing rent, whereby they didnt leave a forwarding address to 
enable her to pursue them for the amount owing. The loss of rent has not been caused by 
any damage or destruction of the property here, so there is therefore no insured event for 
the policy to respond to. Ive also considered whether there are any other sections of the 
policy that would cover Miss Cs loss of rent as an insured event; but there isnt. 
I appreciate that Miss C was under the impression that her policy offered rent guarantee 
cover as opposed to just strictly covering loss of rent if the property was damaged. But any 
concerns she has with how the policy was sold should be directed to the relevant firm/broker 
that sold it to her, as this is not something that Zurich as the insurer can be held responsible 
for, given that they did not sell the policy. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Miss C. But Im not persuaded that Zurich 
has done anything wrong in these circumstances, so I wont be directing them to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman