DRN-3890175
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lendable Ltd is unfairly reporting missed payments to the credit 
reference agencies in respect of two loans that he has with it.
What happened
Mr E entered into two separate loans with Lendable and was making the contractual 
payments until November 2018 when he experienced financial difficulties. Mr E entered into 
a debt management plan with the assistance of a debt charity and a payment proposal was 
agreed with Lendable. A new monthly payment rate was commenced and has been 
maintained by Mr E.
Mr E says that in December 2021 he discovered that Lendable had reported he had missed 
a payment for that month to the credit reference agencies. He says he contacted Lendable 
about his credit report and although he only received a holding response the account was 
later updated to show that a payment had been made for that month. 
Mr E says that he was concerned to see that his credit report again showed a missing 
payment in January 2022 and February 2022. He contacted Lendable, who said they would 
review his account. Lendable then informed Mr E that it was reporting the correct information 
to the credit reference agencies as it was obliged to report his account was in a debt 
management plan. It also said the missing payment markers were reflecting that there had 
been missed payments in the past and these would continue to show until the arrears had 
been cleared.
Mr E complained to Lendable and said that his account had been in a debt management 
plan for three years with the all the agreed monthly payments being made. He said that it 
was only recently that the missed payments had been recorded on his credit file.
Mr E didnt receive a response from Lendable and complained to this service. Lendable then 
issued its final response to his complaint. It said that it was agreeable to removing the 
missed payments information and offered him £75 as compensation for the impact the 
adverse information had had. 
Mr E said that despite its offer, Lendable had continued to report missed payments on this 
account. He said the compensation payment of £75 wasnt now fair in light of the continuing 
distress and inconvenience Lendable was causing due to its reporting of missed payments.
However, Lendable then reviewed its decision to remove the adverse information and wrote 
to Mr E via email in November 2022. Lendable said that there would be a change as to how 
it would report information about the two loan accounts to the credit reference agencies. It 
said that it would continue to report that the loans were involved in a debt management plan 
for the duration of that plan. It said that the payments being received on his accounts were 
less than the original monthly repayments outlined in the loan agreements and that an 
arrears balance had therefore accrued. It said this would be reported to the credit reference 
agencies and this may affect how the loans were reflected on his credit report.
Lendable said that it was obligated to share information about your loan account with the 
CRAs in a factual and accurate manner - therefore, this is not something that we can be 
flexible with. It is then the responsibility of the CRA to present this information on your credit 
report.
Lendable said it acknowledged that Mr E had made a complaint about the way that the loans 
were reflected on his credit file, and, in that instance, it had been able to remove the arrears 
markers. However, it said that moving forwards, Im afraid that we will no longer ask our 
CRAs to remove this information.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Es complaint, Lendables original response and its subsequent 
view. She didnt recommend that Mr Es complaint should be upheld as she didnt think 
Lendable was acting unfairly.
Our investigator said that a credit provider was obliged to report accurate information, and 
this included that an account was in a debt management plan. And, although it had agreed 
previously to remove the negative markers, it had to share factual information and the 
accounts were in arrears. She said she therefore wouldnt ask Lendable to remove the 
adverse information. Our investigator also said she thought the £75 paid as compensation 
was fair in the circumstances and she wouldnt ask it to do more.
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view. He said that Lendable wasnt telling the credit 
agencies he was in arrears but that he was missing payments which wasnt accurate. Mr E 
also said that Lendable had originally upheld his complaint and offered to remove the 
information but had then failed to do so.
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its disputed that Mr E hasnt been able to maintain the original agreed 
contractual payments for the two loans due to his financial circumstances. He entered into 
an agreed payment plan and has been able to maintain that for some time now. However, he 
is making part payments as opposed to the full contractual ones under that debt 
management plan.
A credit provider is obliged to report to the credit reference agencies how a consumer 
manages their accounts. This means that Lendable must report that Mr Es accounts are 
subject to a payment plan and are in arrears. This information is what is being supplied by 
Lendable to the credit reference agencies.
I appreciate there has been some confusion for Mr E in that it would appear in the past there 
were no missed payments being shown and this has now changed. I also appreciate that 
originally, after he had complained, Mr E was informed by Lendable that it would remove any 
adverse information and it offered compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
However, on review, Lendable has decided that as part of its obligation on reporting 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies it must provide information that the 
account is subject to a debt management plan and that there are arrears. And although I 
appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr E, I cant reasonably say that Lendables 
decision is unfair or unreasonable here as it is reporting what is an accurate reflection of the 
management of the accounts.Im aware Mr Es concern is that the payments are shown as being missed rather than there 
are partial payments being made which would better reflect the situation. But looking at the 
credit reference agencys reports which he has supplied I cant see that this particular 
agency has a facility for noting part payments. It only appears to show payments as being on 
time, missed or that there is no data. As the payment isnt the full contractual amount 
and there are arrears, then as set out by Lendable to Mr E in its recent email, the information 
it provides as to the account may affect how your loans are reflected on your credit report. 
But Im satisfied that Lendable is correctly reporting the management of these accounts by 
Mr E to the credit reference agencies. It is a matter for those agencies as to how they reflect 
this information on his credit file.
Lendable has paid Mr E £75 as compensation for the impact of the adverse information. And 
Im not going to ask it to do more as it has subsequently reviewed what it needs to report 
and decided it wont in future seek to remove the adverse information which I think is 
reasonable in light of its obligations.
So, for the reasons given and although Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, Im not upholding his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman