DRN-2594404
The complaint
Mr G and Ms E complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) have failed to 
protect the value of their mortgage endowment policy. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms E held a with-profits mortgage endowment policy with Aviva. They were made 
aware about the risk of a shortfall in the target value of the plan in August 2019, where they 
were told that its current cash-in value at that point was £69,471.75 (meaning an estimated 
shortfall of £12,528.25). 
Mr G and Ms E continued to intermittently check the value of their endowment policy ahead 
of its maturity date on 12 June 2020. They checked in January 2020 and said the value at 
that point stood at £72,972.14. However, they were unhappy to find that this has fallen 
significantly to £64,074.92 when they called Aviva to check the value again on 
20 March 2020. Mr G and Ms E said this caused them to panic and they felt they were left 
with no choice but to surrender the policy. 
Aviva told Mr G and Ms E that they could surrender the policy over the phone, but that both 
of them would need to be present. They called later in the day to do this but were unhappy to 
find that they were unable to surrender the policy over the phone due to technical issues 
Aviva were experiencing that day, meaning they would have to do it in writing.
Aviva received Mr G and Ms Es written instructions on 23 March 2020 and processed the 
surrender, but paid a further amount of £378.63, which was the difference between the 
amount that was eventually paid and the value of the policy on 20 March 2020 when they 
originally requested to surrender the policy. Aviva also paid £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr G and Ms E were unhappy with this, however, as they believe that Aviva have failed to 
protect their investment and look out for their financial interests. They also say that they 
called Aviva on 26 March 2020 to chase up the payment, where they were told that the value 
of the policy had since increased to £65,780.06, which they say Aviva should pay rather than 
using the value at 20 March 2020 as the date of surrender.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Aviva could be held responsible 
for the fall in value of the endowment policy, and also thought its offer of compensation was 
fair. Mr G and Ms E disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
I understand Mr G and Ms E do not feel that Aviva has done enough to protect their financial 
interests as they have been left with a lot less money than they expected to receive. But I 
think its important to point out that this isnt money that has been taken away from their plan 
or redistributed. This is because the value they were quoted (e.g. when they were told it 
stood at £72,972.14 in January 2020) was a prospective value that Aviva wouldve 
anticipated it could achieve with the terminal bonus. In other words, it was only an estimate. 
It was never money that was in their plan all along that has been clawed back as they 
approached their maturity date; it is just that the anticipated value had fallen as a result of 
the prevailing market conditions at the time. 
Aviva make it clear in its annual statements that its estimated values are not guaranteed, 
and I can also see that Mr G and Ms E were reminded of this on 25 November 2019 when 
they called to check the current value and were told by the Aviva representative that it wasnt 
guaranteed and could go up or down. So, although Aviva said that the plan was valued at 
£72,972.14 in January, they are not obliged to pay this. 
Aviva has explained that the reason the value had dropped was due to a fall in value of its 
stewardship fund. In terms of the factors that caused it to fall, it has explained that the 
market downturn in response to the Covid-19 pandemic was the reason behind this, and I 
note that it was in March 2020 that the markets were particularly volatile and had fallen 
significantly after the country had been placed into lockdown. 
I appreciate Aviva may not have gone into a great amount of detail about all the other 
various factors that can affects the value of a fund and terminal bonus. But this can depend 
on a number of things, such as the cost of the insurance business, as well as the need to 
smooth bonuses from year to year (where some of the profits are held back during good 
years to boost the profits during the bad years to avoid any drastic fluctuations). However, I 
wouldnt have expected Aviva to have disclosed complex or detailed breakdowns of its 
actuarial calculations to Mr G and Ms E. So I think it was reasonable enough for it to explain 
that adverse investment conditions at the time the policy was surrendered had been the 
predominant reason for the fall in value. 
The fact that the surrender value was less than Mr G and Ms E were anticipating also does 
not mean that Aviva has treated them unfairly. Its unfortunate that their plan did fall so 
significantly, and I appreciate this would have been a very distressing time for them. But Im 
afraid that the vast majority of investments carry a certain amount of risk, which can in some 
cases see greater returns, but unfortunately in others (as in Mr G and Ms Es case) it can 
result in losses. It is widely known that billions of pounds were wiped off the stock market in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic, and many others would have sadly found themselves in 
the same position as Mr G and Ms E. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that the fall in the 
value of their plan was due to Avivas negligence rather than simply being in response to the 
prevailing market downturn at the time. I can also see that it asked them whether they 
wanted to switch to a more cautious fund in March 2020 as they approached their maturity 
date, but they instead chose to surrender the policy. So I do not think it would be fair and 
reasonable to direct Aviva to pay the £72,972.14 they were told their plan was worth in 
January 2020, as it was no longer worth this amount when it was surrendered.
I appreciate that Mr G and Ms E were told on 26 March 2020 that the value of their plan had 
since risen to £65,780.06. However, they had been clear in their phone call of 20 March 
2020 that they wanted to surrender their policy that day (and would have done had it not 
been for Avivas technical issues that prevented it from proceeding with a telephone 
surrender). Mr G and Ms Es written instructions also say:
Wewrite to confirm that we would need to surrender the above policy with 
immediate effect and request that the surrender value of £64,074.92 confirmed today 20/03/2020 be paid into the following Santander account. 
So, although I appreciate the value of the plan may have later increased, Mr G and Ms E 
formally requested to surrender the policy on 20 March 2020. That is taken as the surrender 
date, and the value of the policy on that date is the amount that should be paid  which is 
why Aviva has paid an additional £378.63 on top of the plans value as of 23 March 2020 
when it received the written surrender instructions, to ensure that Mr G and Ms E received 
the correct amount in line with the date they surrendered the policy. So I do not think Aviva 
now need to consider paying them the increased amount their policy had risen to on 26 
March 2020 as it had already been surrendered by that point (just not necessarily 
processed). 
I appreciate that the service Mr G and Ms E received fell below what they expected, as Aviva 
was unable to process their telephone surrender instructions despite having earlier said they 
could. But this was unfortunately due to technical issues, and Aviva has offered £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused Mr G and Ms E, which I 
consider to be fair in the circumstances. So I will not be directing it to make any further 
award.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman