DRN-3819272
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Monzo Bank Limited unreasonably refused to refund him £4,477 
that was taken from his bank account without his authority or permission. 
What happened
On 6 April 2022 Mr H said he was contacted by someone who said they were from Monzo 
who said she was cancelling a payment made from his account as it looked like unusual 
activity. She was also going to freeze his card. 
She explained he would have a notification appearing on the Monzo app to accept Apple or 
Google Pay. That notification duly arrived and Mr H then noticed it was Apple Pay when he 
only had an Android phone. He said he panicked at the time and just accepted it. He was 
comforted by the fact he wasnt asked to download anything or open any links.
 
On 8 April 2022 Mr H said he received another phone call taking about something similar on 
another account with another bank. He asked Mr H a security question concerning his 
present balance in that account. And he advised Mr H to transfer money to his Monzo 
account as it would be more secure. Then 20 minutes later Mr H saw that a payment of 
£4,477 had been made from his Monzo account using Apple Pay.
It is this transaction that Mr H is complaining about. 
He reported all this to Monzo who decided he had been grossly negligent with the security 
on his account and therefore it wouldnt be refunding this payment back to him. 
It acknowledged it was an Apple Pay scam. But it felt the initial call pretending to be from 
Monzo was too short to create trust. It felt Mr H should have questioned why he was 
receiving Apple Pay when he had an android phone. The number was one digit out from 
Monzos number which it felt Mr H should have noticed. It thought Mr H should have asked 
more questions on the second scam call concerning his other bank account with another 
bank. It said given the two days between both calls Mr H should have initiated some checks 
so as to prevent the transfer happening. He also made no attempts to confirm it was Monzo 
making the first call to him. 
Mr H then brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that although Mr H 
had been careless, she didnt think this amounted to the high bar that is gross negligence 
and therefore she felt Monzo should refund the payment of £4,477 plus interest. 
As Monzo didnt agree, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Its accepted that Mr H didnt authorise this payment himself  so the starting position under 
the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) is that he shouldnt be held liable for it. However, 
section 77 of these regulations allows Monzo to hold Mr H liable if they can demonstrate he 
failed to keep his personalised security credential safe, either with intent or gross 
negligence. 
What constitutes gross negligence isnt specifically defined in the regulations. However, as 
Monzo is aware this service considers it to be a lack of care that goes significantly beyond 
what we would expect from a reasonable person. So, the test is what would be a reasonable 
consumer have done in the same or similar circumstances.
 
The Financial Conduct Authority also agrees that the interpretation of gross negligence is 
significantly higher than the common law definition of negligence in liability cases too. 
Case law has said the conduct must be undertaken with actual (I would say demonstrable) 
appreciation of the risk involved, or a serious (I would say almost wilful here too) disregard or 
indifference to an obvious risk. The word obvious being very important.
 
And it is for the business as in Monzo here, to prove Mr H acted with gross negligence, its 
not for Mr H to prove he didnt. So, the burden of proving Mr H was grossly negligent lies 
with Monzo. 
I dont think Monzo has discharged this burden of proof sufficiently. It was clear in both calls 
Mr H thought he was speaking first to Monzo and secondly to the other bank.
 
The length of the call isnt the only thing which can create sufficient trust in my view as what 
they say and ask you to do not to do is also designed to create trust too. These fraudsters 
are skilful and well-practised. Mr H felt he had some understanding of how fraudsters might 
work and its clear from his testimony that he was relieved he wasnt been asked to 
download anything or open any links. That gave him some comfort just as it was probably 
designed to do by the fraudsters.
 
I think nothing at all turns on the fact the phone number used was one digit out from Monzos 
phone number. I have no expectation that any consumer knows their banks phone number 
that well. 
Mr H said the fraudster told him either Apple Pay or Google Pay would be set up. Apple Pay 
was set up which Mr H accepted despite the fact he had an Android phone. Mr H said he 
panicked and accepted it. Given hes just been told something was amiss in a payment and 
the person he was talking to was seeking to safeguard his account, he was supposed to be 
worried, so panicking isnt unreasonable reaction. I would call that level of behaviour from Mr 
H possibly careless but not grossly negligent. I dont consider there is any or any sufficient 
evidence to show me that Mr H at this stage had appreciated the risk that he was being 
scammed as in his view that should include being asked to download something or open 
links. And I dont consider there was a serious or gross indifference on Mr Hs part to this 
being a risk. 
And for me all this shows most likely that adequate trust had been achieved between the 
fraudster and Mr H. 
I also agree with the investigators view that since this is a IT tech issue, many consumers 
may not have a clear understanding of such issues since they all change so rapidly and 
keeping right up to date is difficult so may tend to believe the tech expert namely the fraudster pretending to be Monzo as happened here. Most likely had Google Pay been set 
up the fraud would have happened in any event. 
Therefore, on balance given the evidence available to me, I dont consider Monzo has 
proved Mr H was grossly negligent here. He was nave and clearly thought he had a better 
understanding of what fraudsters use to scam consumers such as him, but Im not of the 
view this amounts to gross negligence. So, the disputed transactions should now be 
refunded to Mr H with interest.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Monzo Bank Ltd to do the following:
Refund Mr H the sum of £4,477 to his account. 
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date the payment went out of his account 
to the date it refunds it. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr H for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman