DRN-3107965
The complaint
Mr W complains that AXIS Specialty Europe SE declined his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W and his family have travel insurance, insured by AXIS, through his employer. The 
employer is the group policyholder.
In February 2020 Mr W and his son booked to travel abroad for six days in mid-June 2020 to 
attend two sporting events within a tournament.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic.
On 17 March 2020 the sports governing body in Europe cancelled the sports tournament 
and Mr W cancelled the flight and hotel bookings. He received full refunds from the airline 
and one of the hotels. The other hotel, which Mr W had booked on a non-cancellable basis 
through a booking website, charged a cancellation fee of £783.56. He claimed for the 
cancellation cost under the policy.
AXIS declined the claim on the basis that the policy excluded cancellation claims due to an 
epidemic or pandemic. It also said cancellation was only covered for certain listed events 
and the reason Mr W cancelled didnt fall within those events.
Mr W complained to us. He said:
hed been sent a Confirmation of Cover document in January 2020 which said the 
full policy wording was available for viewing or downloading on his employers 
intranet site but his employer told him the full policy wording had never been on its 
intranet site
AXIS was unfair to rely on an exclusion in the full policy terms that werent made 
available to him. So AXIS should pay the hotel cancellation cost less the policy 
excess.
Our investigator didnt address the pandemic exclusion but she thought AXIS fairly declined 
the claim. She noted the booking companys cancellation letter said it would inform Mr W 
about a new voucher for next year and the policy excluded any amounts paid which could 
be collected from elsewhere. Mr W said hed not received a voucher, but our investigator 
said as there was no evidence that the booking company wasnt offering a voucher she 
couldnt fairly say he was unable to reclaim the costs claimed from elsewhere. She also said 
as Mr Ws employer is the policyholder AXIS needed to provide them with the full policy 
documents and it was for the employer to make the information available to Mr W.
Mr W disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. He said hed not received a voucher 
from the booking company or the hotel and over a year had passed since the cancellation. 
Hed now contacted them and hadnt received a reply but if he received a voucher from 
either hed repay the value to AXIS. He still considered AXIS should have sent him the full 
policy terms.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint but for 
different reasons than our investigator gave. I said:
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
Im intending to not uphold this complaint as I think AXIS declined the claim reasonably. Ill 
explain why.
The policy covers cancellation for irrecoverable unused accommodation costs as a result of 
the unavoidable cancellation of Mr Ws trip due to listed insured events. One of those events 
is natural disaster which shall mean an unavoidable event caused by natural forces without 
any human interference. But even if I thought that insured event meant cancellation due to 
Covid-19 was covered (and I make no finding on that in this decision) the policy excludes:
any losses arising from an epidemic or pandemic as categorised as such by any 
Government and/or the World Health Organisation, in respect of cancellation claims.
Mr W says the reason for his trip cancellation was due to the sports tournament being 
cancelled, not the pandemic. But the sports tournament was cancelled due to Covid-19 and 
given the circumstances at the time I think its highly unlikely Mr W would have been able to 
travel given the overall impact of the pandemic. The dates detailed in the above background 
section show at that time Covid-19 had already been declared a pandemic by WHO. So 
I think it was reasonable for AXIS to consider that the above policy exclusion applied.
Mr W says AXIS cant fairly rely on that exclusion as it didnt send him the full policy terms. 
Im not persuaded by that point for two reasons.
First, the policy says the parties to the agreement are AXIS and:
The Group Policyholder who is the legal holder of this Policy on behalf of itself and 
its Employees who become Policyholders by electing to be covered under the Policy.
I think AXIS can reasonably fulfil its requirement by giving the full policy documents to 
Mr Ws employer (the group policyholder), telling Mr W where that information can be found, 
and giving him a summary of cover, as it did with this policy. Its Confirmation of Cover 
document most recently sent to Mr W in January 2020 says:
this document does not include the policy wording, which sets out the full terms, 
conditions and exclusions of the Insurance. This important document is available for 
viewing or can be downloaded on the (employer) intranet site. We strongly 
recommend that you obtain a copy and familiarise yourself with the contents.
Ive seen an email between Mr W and his employer where the later says the full policy 
wasnt on the company intranet as the intranet is available to all countries, whereas this 
benefit is for UK employees only so the employer stores the policy centrally. I think thats an
issue Mr W needs to take up with his employer as AXIS provided it with the full policy 
document and I think its more likely than not AXIS got the information about where the 
policy would be stored from the employer.Second, Mr W says he received the Confirmation of Cover. That document includes a 
summary of the cover and under the cancellation and curtailment section significant 
limitations & exclusions it says:
we will not pay for..
Losses arising from a government order or categorised epidemic or pandemic.
So the exclusion was clearly highlighted to Mr W in the summary of cover.
For the above two reasons I think AXIS fairly and reasonably relied on the epidemic/ 
pandemic exclusion to decline the claim.
Even without the epidemic/pandemic exclusion, as our investigator mentioned, there is 
another specific exclusion to cancellation claims in the policy:
any amounts paid or payable by or which can be collected from a tour operator, hotel 
or airline or any other party.
Its standard for travel policies to exclude recoverable costs. As the booking companys letter 
to Mr W referred to a voucher being provided he would have had to provide sufficient 
evidence that he hadnt, and wasnt, going to receive the voucher. Otherwise its likely we 
would have said the recoverable costs exclusion applied.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. AXIS didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W accepted my provisional decision and AXIS didnt respond Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings I think AXIS fairly 
declined the claim. I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman