DRN-3909724
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Covea Insurance plc accepted liability on her behalf in a third party car 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs P had car insurance underwritten by Covea. 
They notified her that a claim had been made by a third party driver, who alleged Mrs Ps car 
has reversed into his car in a car park.
Mrs P says the alleged accident didnt happen and she is not responsible for the damage to 
the third partys car. Covea investigated the matter and accepted liability, paying out for 
repairs to the third partys car. 
Mrs P thinks this decision was wrong and that her evidence wasnt fully taken into account. 
And shes concerned about the increase in her premiums in future now that the third party 
claim is recorded against her.
Mrs P complained to Covea, but they said their decision was correct given all of the 
evidence available about the alleged incident. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Covea has done anything wrong. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mrs Ps policy say that Covea can take over and settle claims on the 
policyholders behalf. Thats not unusual  in fact, its pretty much standard with all 
mainstream car insurance policies. 
And its not inherently unfair (as long as its set out clearly in the policy terms). It would 
clearly be impractical and unjustified for insurers to dispute liability in court in every case 
where the policyholder denied any responsibility for an accident.
Of course, it is important, in that context, that insurers take properly into account all the 
evidence  including that provided by the policyholder  when assessing a claim and when 
deciding whether or not to accept liability.
In this case, Covea have allowed Mrs P an opportunity to present any evidence she might 
have and to give her side of the story. And Im satisfied theyve taken that into account when 
making their decision.
Their decision was based primarily on a report from an engineer they sent to inspect Mrs Ps 
car, at her invitation.
He said the rear bumper of Mrs Ps car was scuffed and damaged. And the damage was 
consistent with the third partys account of the alleged accident and with the damage to his 
car. The third party had said Mrs Ps car had reversed into his.
The engineer also said that when he asked Mrs Ps husband, who had been driving the car 
at the time, he said the damage to the rear bumper had been caused by the incident with the 
third party in the car park.
Mrs P thinks the engineer simply made this up. But, in my view, its difficult to see why he 
would do so. He is independent of Covea. 
And Id also ask Mrs P to bear in mind that neither Covea nor anyone working on their behalf 
would have any interest at all in finding that she was at fault for the accident. Covea, after all, 
are the ones who had to pay out for the damage to the third partys car.
Ive also listened to the call in which Mrs P initially contacts Covea about the third party 
claim. When asked directly whether she was saying that her car hadnt been involved in any 
collision, she says she cant confirm that it had been. 
Mrs P says that her car was in the car park at the time. And that her husband had reversed 
at one point. And that the third party then pulled up behind them, as they went to drive away, 
got their attention, and told them theyd damaged his car by reversing into it. 
She appears then to say that the contents in or at the back of the car (a vacuum cleaner and 
a shopping trolley) shifted radically at one point. I assume she was trying to account for a 
noise at the rear of the car when it was being reversed, although this is not made absolutely 
clear in the call. Its not immediately apparent why Mrs P would otherwise refer to the 
contents in or at the rear of the car.
In short, Mrs P appears to be unsure whether a collision with the third partys car did in fact 
take place. Her answers to some of the questions shes asked are either evasive or dont 
answer that question at all. And the agent simply records what hes been told and advises 
Mrs P that hell refer the matter to the team handling the claim.
To be frank, given all of that evidence, it wasnt unreasonable for Covea to conclude that if 
they had disputed liability, they would have lost the case in court. And so, it wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable to settle the claim, as they are entitled to do according to the policy terms. 
Mrs P is also concerned about increased premiums after liability was accepted in this case. 
Im afraid that will be a likely consequence of the third party claim being accepted. Mrs P 
may now by regarded by most insurers as an increased risk. And that being the case, they 
will naturally ask for a higher premium in return for providing cover.
But theres nothing unfair or unreasonable about that. As I say, all the evidence suggests 
Covea were entitled to accept liability and pay the third partys repair costs. Covea arent 
responsible for the consequences of that in terms of Mrs Ps likely future premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman