DRN-3121582
The complaint
Miss G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc released information about her mortgage 
account without her consent. She would like the bank to compensate her for the 
inconvenience, worry and upset caused by the breach of confidentiality.
What happened
Miss G has a mortgage with the bank. In error the bank linked a request for a redemption 
statement to her account and issued two statements to a firm of solicitors  in March and 
April 2021. One of those statements was issued after Miss G had alerted the bank to the 
error a few days after the first statement had been sent.  She knew about the error as the 
bank told her the statement had been sent.
Understandably Miss G was concerned and immediately asked the bank to block her 
accounts. This included her current account and she relied on family members to help her 
with day to day transactions. She also later cancelled some direct debit payments being 
worried that they had been set up in error and as a result of the disclosure.
The bank apologised for the mistake and initially offered to pay Miss G £200 compensation. 
It later increased that offer to £450 which our investigator felt was a fair recognition of what 
had happened, and the difficulties Miss G had described. She disagreed saying there had 
been an impact on her and her family over a four-month period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays made a mistake here; it was told of the mistake but still repeated the error a few 
weeks later. Confidential information was shared with a firm of solicitors and that is a data 
breach. The bank has sought to reassure Miss G that the firm was on its panel of solicitors, 
in other words bone fide, and that the information has been destroyed at that end. 
Having reviewed the file its my view is that more could have been done to identify that there 
had been a breach and make sure it didnt happen again. This was a serious matter. Miss G 
chose to block her accounts  I understand why she did this but again do think the bank 
could have itself have taken steps to monitor the accounts and make sure there was no 
unusual activity. In the event I dont think there was and Im satisfied that a reasonable 
explanation has been provided for each of the direct debits Miss G subsequently queried. 
This includes one which was set up in 2011 and is not related to the breach in 2021.
But this does not detract from the very real distress and inconvenience experienced by Miss 
G, which included asking family members for support. I accept she felt that was necessary 
and I understand her worry during this period. The banks original offer of £200 was not, in 
my view, sufficient to reflect the impact of the breach but I do think that the increased offer of 
£450 is reasonable and fair compensation in all the circumstances of the complaint. I am 
also asking the bank to obtain an undertaking from the solicitors that the information has 
been destroyed which I hope will give Miss G further peace of mind in this matter.
Putting things right
To settle the complaint Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
pay Miss G £450 compensation; and
obtain an undertaking from the firm of solicitors that the all the information sent to it in 
error has been destroyed. An appropriate copy of that undertaking should be 
provided to Miss G on request.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Barclays Bank UK Plc to take the 
steps set out above in settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Clare Mortimer
Ombudsman