DRN-3365574
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 17 March 2020, Mr C was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers. He paid a deposit of £1,100 and the agreement was for £9,899 over 60 
months; with monthly repayments of £241.28. At the time the car was just over eight and a 
half years old and had done 72,000 miles. Mr C had payments difficulties and Close 
Brothers terminated the agreement and repossessed the car in July 2021.
Mr C says he started having problems shortly after taking possession of the car and he 
contacted the supplying dealership about this In May 2020. He also raised the issues with 
Close Brothers on 18 June 2020 and asked to reject the car. Mr C also took the car back to 
the dealership, because of the ongoing problems, on a number of occasions while it was in 
his possession.
In August 2020, he had the car inspected by an independent garage, which cost him £36. 
This inspection found a suspected issue with the dual mass flywheel, a broken exhaust, a 
leaking shock absorber, and a damaged ball joint. 
Mr C complained to Close Brothers, and they arranged for an independent engineer to 
inspect the car. This inspection took place on 2 October 2020, when the car had done 
82,057 miles. The engineer agreed there was a suspected issue with the flywheel, and that 
one of the shock absorbers had a heavy oil leak. But the engineer also said that the issues 
were commensurate with wear and tear, given the age and mileage of the car. 
Because of this, while Close Brothers accepted there were faults with the car, they didnt 
think they were present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr C. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mr C wasnt happy with this response, and he 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr C has first reported the issues with the car three months after it was 
supplied, and when Mr C had only done around 2,000 miles. And when he put this 
information to the independent engineer, the engineer said the faults wouldve been in an 
advanced state of development when the car was supplied to Mr C.
Because of the engineers comments, the investigator said the car wasnt of a satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C. However, because Close Brothers had already 
repossessed the car, asking them to repair it was no longer possible.
The investigator thought it was fair that Mr C paid for the use of the car while it was in his 
possession, and that Mr C should be liable for the payments from April 2020 to June 2021, 
less the interest on these payments. He said that Close Brothers should reduce the 
outstanding balance to £1,750.86, to account for this, as well as refunding Mr C the £1,100 
deposit he paid, and the £36 hed paid to have the car inspected, plus statutory interest. He 
also said that Close Brothers should pay Mr C an additional £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused and remove any adverse entries from his credit file relating 
to this agreement.
Close Brothers agreed with the investigators conclusions, but not the remedy proposed. 
They said, when a car was rejected/repossessed, theyd normally charge a customer one 
monthly payment for every 1,000 miles the car had travelled. Because Mr C had done 
12,500 miles in the car at the point of repossession, they would usually hold him liable for 
12.5 payments, not the 15 the investigator had recommended. And the interest wouldnt be 
removed, as this was something the customer would always have had to pay.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2022, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close 
Brothers are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise. But, where a fault is 
identified after the first six months, its for Mr C to show that it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr C took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put 
this right.
It's not disputed that there were faults with the car, or that these faults made the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality when the car was supplied to Mr C. So, my decision will focus on what 
is a fair and reasonable remedy in the circumstances.
Where a car was not of a satisfactory quality when supplied, the CRA allows for one chance 
at repair. And if that repair isnt successful, then the car can be rejected.
From what Ive seen, the supplying dealership carried out some work on the car in early July 
2020. Although Ive not seen anything to show me exactly what work was done. But the 
dealership and Close Brothers were aware of issues Mr C was having with car. And on 1 
July 2020, Close Brothers had asked Mr C to book the car into dealership.
Given this, and because the car has been repossessed so a repair is no longer possible, I 
think its fair for me to base my remedy on Mr C having the right to reject the car.
If Mr C had rejected the car in mid-2020, I wouldve expected Close Brothers to refund the 
deposit he paid. So, I think its fair that this is refunded to him now.But, because Mr C had use of the car, I wouldnt expect Close Brothers to refund any 
payments. And, if hed rejected the car in mid-2020, its reasonable to presume that he 
wouldve needed to get a replacement vehicle. Which wouldve come with its own costs. Im 
aware that Close Brothers say they should be able to charge Mr C a monthly payment for 
every 1,000 miles he drove the car. But this wasnt a pay by the mile agreement. Mr C was 
charged a payment for every month he was in possession of the car. 
So, I think Close Brothers should be allowed to keep all the payments Mr C made between 
supply of the car, and when it was repossessed. And, where Mr C didnt make a scheduled 
payment under the agreement, I also think its fair that this remains outstanding (as arrears) 
and Close Brothers are entitled to pursue him for this.
However, Mr C was driving a car with a fault. So, I think its fair that an allowance is made for 
this impaired usage. Given all of the circumstances, I think that Close Brothers should refund 
Mr C 10% of the payments hed made, plus statutory interest, to account for this impaired 
usage. But, as he remains in arrears, this refund can be offset against the payments Mr C 
didnt make.
Mr C has also incurred costs in relation to the faults on the car. Hes already submitted proof 
of the £36 cost of the inspection he had done in August 2020. And I think its fair that Close 
Brothers reimburse him for this. Hes also said that he paid to have the car repaired in 
November 2020. But he hasnt provided any evidence of this. If, as part of his response to 
my provisional decision, Mr C provides proof of these repair costs, then Ill also be asking 
Close Brothers to reimburse these costs. However, as this will mean the car wasnt impaired 
after the repairs, I would also look to cap the 10% impaired usage refund to when the repair 
took place.
Finally, I agree with the investigator that Mr C was inconvenienced by having a faulty car. 
Especially with the amount of times this went back to the dealership for inspection or repair 
while he was in possession of it.
So, my provisional decision is that Close Brothers should:
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Cs credit file;
refund the £1,100 deposit Mr C paid;
refund 10% of the payments Mr C paid to account for the impaired usage of the car 
(if Mr C provides evidence of repair this refund will be capped at the date of repair);
reimburse Mr C for the £36 cost of the inspection on the car in August 2020 (plus the 
cost of the repairs in November 2020 if proof of these costs is provided as part of Mr 
Cs comments on this provisional decision);
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunds, calculated from the date Mr C 
made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr C an additional £250 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
Close Brothers can also offset the refund for the impaired usage only against Mr Cs 
outstanding balance.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close 
Brothers must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for 
one.Responses
Mr C agreed with my provisional decision, but he didnt provide any evidence of the repairs 
to the car in November 2020. Because of this, I wont be asking Close Brothers to reimburse 
the cost of these repairs as part of my final decision.
Close Brothers also agreed with my provisional decision, but theyve asked if my saying they 
could offset the 10% payment refund against Mr Cs arrears means they can reduce the 
arrears by this amount, and not pay it to Mr C. 
Also, despite my saying Close Brothers can also offset the refund for the impaired usage 
only against Mr Cs outstanding balance, Close Brothers have said theyd like to withhold 
the £850 damages charges from the deposit refund, and they like to use the remaining £250 
to reduce the arrears. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, with regards to offsetting, Close Brothers can use the total amount of the 
payment refund and reduce the total amount outstanding by the value of this refund. But I 
would point out that the figure Close Brothers have quoted didnt include interest. And my 
provisional decision was quite clear that statutory interest should be included when 
calculating the amount of the refund.
While I appreciate that Mr C has an outstanding balance, I dont think its fair that the deposit 
is automatically used to reduce this. And this isnt something we would normally recommend. 
This is because, if Mr C hadnt used this money as a deposit against a car that was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied, he wouldve had this money available to use for other 
purposes. So, I dont think its fair that Close Brothers keep this.
And, again, the figures Close Brothers quoted didnt take into consideration statutory 
interest, even though I clearly said it should be included.
However, as Mr C is in arrears, if he agrees to Close Brothers using the deposit refund to 
offset the arrears, then theyre able to do this. And, as hes in arrears, Id also expect Close 
Brothers to treat him with consideration and forbearance when agreeing any repayment 
plan.
So, for these reasons, Close Brothers comments dont change my view.
Putting things right
So, given the above, Close Brothers should:
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Cs credit file;
refund the £1,100 deposit Mr C paid;
refund 10% of the payments Mr C paid to account for the impaired usage of the car;
reimburse Mr C for the £36 cost of the inspection on the car in August 2020;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunds, calculated from the date Mr C 
made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr C an additional £250 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.Close Brothers can offset the refund for the impaired usage (including interest) only against 
Mr Cs outstanding balance.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close 
Brothers must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Close Brothers Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman