DRN-2981116
The complaint
Mr T has complained about his car insurer AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
because it didnt close his claim in time for his 2021 renewal.
What happened
Mr T had a crash in September 2020 and his car was repaired. The third party (TP) driver 
admitted fault and AA started to try and recover its outlay from their insurer. In January 2021 
AA attached the policy excess amount to its recovery action and refunded this sum to Mr T. 
AA also wrote to Mr T at this time stating the claim was closed. In February 2021 the TP 
insurer confirmed it had reimbursed AAs outlay. AA began trying to trace the payment but 
this took a while.
In the meantime Mr Ts policy was due to renew. His renewal quote from AA was much 
higher than the year before; it showed only 4 years no claims, not the five it should have 
been and that the claim was recorded as one of fault against Mr T. Initially AA didnt accept it 
had done anything wrong. But later, in July 2021, it accepted that it had mistakenly told Mr T 
his claim was closed when it was not  and it shouldnt have been recorded as one of fault at 
renewal. It said that it would write to Mr T confirming his no claims bonus and that the claim 
was closed so he could ask his current insurer to amend its premium. It also offered £50 
compensation. Mr T complained to us.
Our investigator noted AA had accepted it hadnt handled this well. She felt the claim should 
have been recorded correctly at renewal and that Mr T had suffered quite a lot of upset as a 
result. She said it should pay him a total of £150 compensation. She said if it hadnt done so 
already, it should update the claim record, confirming to Mr T in writing that it is closed and 
what his no claims bonus is. 
Mr T didnt object to the findings. AA wrote to Mr T confirming the claim was closed, but the 
letter was silent on the no claims bonus. Regarding the compensation, AA said it felt its offer 
of £50 had been fair and reasonable. The complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen AA should have dealt with this better, and if it had, the claim would 
have been recorded correctly as closed  no fault at the time Mr Ts policy came up for 
renewal. Also from what Ive seen AA seems to accept that is the case. AA also accepts it 
made an error when it told Mr T the claim had been closed when it hadnt. The only real 
issue for me to decide then is what fairly and reasonably makes up for the upset Mr T was 
caused by the errors.
AA has written to Mr T confirming the claim is closed. Thats good. But it needs to confirm 
his no claims bonus too. Without that his current insurer wont be able to amend the 
premium it has charged Mr T for cover this year. If AA hasnt done that already, it now 
should and without delay. Mr Ts new insurer should complete that recalculation, and in 
doing so Mr T will be put back in the position he always would have been in but for AAs 
error  at least in terms of price of cover. 
But resolving that financial loss wont make up for the distress and inconvenience Mr T has 
suffered on account of AAs mistakes. AA set Mr Ts expectations about what would happen 
at renewal when it sent him confirmation the claim was closed. Mr T knew the TP had 
admitted liability so, knowing the claim was closed he reasonably expected to see a closed- 
no fault claim on his record at renewal. But AA had been wrong in sending that letter and 
that wasnt what he saw. What he saw was an incorrect record which had resulted in an 
increased premium. Mr T resolved this the best way he could, by seeking cover elsewhere 
but that was time consuming and he still had more to pay due to the open/fault record. On 
balance I think fair and reasonable compensation for the upset Mr T suffered is £150.
Putting things right
I require AA to:
Without delay, provide written confirmation to Mr T of his no claims bonus details. 
Pay Mr T a total of £150 compensation  if £50 has been paid already then only the £100 
remaining will now need to be paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman