DRN-2434023
The complaint
Mrs O  the owner/director of a limited company (B)  complains that DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have unfairly declined its claim for legal expenses.
What happened
B holds a business insurance policy underwritten by Hiscox and DAS (with DAS underwriting 
the legal protection part of the policy). It made a professional indemnity claim with Hiscox 
following legal action being taken against it by a third party, but the claim was declined by 
Hiscox on the basis that the dispute arose prior to the start of the policy.
B subsequently made a further claim for legal expenses under the policy, but this time to 
pursue legal action against Hiscox for wrongly declining its claim. DAS said this claim would 
not be covered, however, as the policy does not cover disputes with DAS or Hiscox:
What is not covered by this section
A dispute with DAS or Hiscox not otherwise dealt with under condition 7
DAS noted there was an error in the wording of the exclusion (the primary exclusion) and 
said they had mistakenly referred to condition 7 (which states that DAS is entitled to 
withdraw cover in the event of an appointed representative being dismissed or refusing to 
act for the insured) rather than condition 9 (which sets out a requirement for arbitration with 
regards to any disputes against the insurer). They said that condition 7 was not relevant to 
the primary exclusion and, notwithstanding the typing error, DAS said they would still be 
declining the legal expenses claim on that basis.
B complained that the error should be interpreted in its favour, so as to mean that the policy 
will cover disputes against DAS or Hiscox and would only serve to exclude certain scenarios, 
with condition 7 covering specific scenarios that could go wrong with such claims. It said that 
condition 7 made sense when read in conjunction with the primary exclusion, such that it 
should be construed as having been the objective intention of both parties when they 
entered into the contract.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that DASs reference to 
condition 7 in the primary exclusion was a simple typing error and wasnt relevant to the 
exclusion being applied, so he didnt think DAS had to cover the legal expenses claim. B 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
As already set out in the background, the policy terms and conditions state that the insurer 
will not cover legal expenses for a dispute with DAS or Hiscox not otherwise dealt with 
under condition 7.
Condition 7 reads:
If an appointed representative refuses to continue acting for an insured person with 
good reason or if an insured person dismisses an appointed representative without 
good reason, the cover DAS provides will end at once, unless DAS agree to appoint 
another appointed representative.
However, DAS have said that this was a typing error, and that the policy term should have 
instead referred to condition 9:
If there is a disagreement about the way DAS handle a claim that is not resolved 
through DAS internal complaints procedure, DAS and the insured person can 
choose a suitably qualified person to arbitrate. DAS and the insured person must 
both agree to the choice of the person in writing. Failing this, DAS will ask the 
president of a national association relevant to the arbitration to choose another 
suitably qualified person. All costs of resolving the matter must be paid by the party 
whose argument is rejected. If the decision is not clearly made against either party, 
the arbitrator will decide how the costs are shared.
DAS submit that the error should be disregarded, and the policy term read as it was 
originally intended, which was to exclude any disputes brought against them or Hiscox that 
are not otherwise dealt with through their complaints or arbitration procedure. However, B 
submits that the term should be construed as it is written (i.e. as referring to condition 7) 
which it says would mean that its dispute with DAS would therefore be covered.  
As part of my considerations of what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have taken account 
of the relevant law regarding contractual interpretation  particularly where one party alleges 
a drafting error has been made  to consider how a court would likely interpret the contract. 
When a court interprets a contract, it seeks to determine what a reasonable person would 
have understood the parties to have meant by the language used, where the reasonable 
person is taken to have all the background knowledge which would have been reasonably 
available to the parties at the time of the contract (see the judgment of Lord Hoffman in 
Chartbrook Ltd v Persimmon Homes Ltd [2009] UKHL 38).
As part of contractual interpretation, its important to consider the terms and conditions of the 
contract in their entire context, rather than in isolation. And toward that end, its helpful to 
consider the common sense principles of contractual interpretation set out by Lord Hoffman 
in the House of Lords case of Investor Compensation Scheme Limited v West Bromwich 
Building Society and Others [1997] UKHL 28:
Almost all the old intellectual baggage of "legal" interpretation has been discarded. 
The principles may be summarised as follows: 
(1) Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document would 
convey to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would 
reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at 
the time of the contract. 
(2) The background was famously referred to by Lord Wilberforce as the "matrix of 
fact" but this phrase is, if anything, an understated description of what the 
background may include. Subject to the requirement that it should have been 
reasonably available to the parties and to the exception to be mentioned next, it includes absolutely anything which would have affected the way in which the 
language of the document would have been understood by a reasonable man. 
(3)  The law excludes from the admissible background the previous negotiations of 
the parties and their declarations of subjective intent. They are admissible only in an 
action for rectification. The law makes this distinction for reasons of practical policy 
and, in this respect only, legal interpretation differs from the way we would interpret 
utterances in ordinary life. The boundaries of this exception are in some respects 
unclear. But this is not the occasion in which to explore them. 
(4) The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a 
reasonable man is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning of 
words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is what 
the parties using those words against the relevant background would reasonably 
have been understood to mean. The background may not merely enable the 
reasonable man to choose between the possible meanings of words which are 
ambiguous but even (as occasionally happens in ordinary life) to conclude that the 
parties must, for whatever reason, have used the wrong words or syntax. (see 
Mannai Investments Co. Ltd. v. Eagle Star Life Assurance Co. Ltd. [1997] 2 WLR 945 
(5)  The "rule" that words should be given their "natural and ordinary meaning" 
reflects the common sense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have 
made linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one 
would nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone 
wrong with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an 
intention which they plainly could not have had. Lord Diplock made this point more 
vigorously when he said in The Antaios Compania Neviera S.A. v. Salen Rederierna 
A.B. 19851 A.C. 191 , 201: 
" if detailed semantic and syntactical analysis of words in a commercial 
contract is going to lead to a conclusion that flouts business commonsense, it 
must be made to yield to business commonsense."  
In the circumstances of this complaint, we are not dealing with a particular word that is 
ambiguous or could be interpreted in different ways. Rather, it concerns a reference to an 
incorrect paragraph number within the contract, which the primary exclusion is meant to be 
read in conjunction with. 
As Lord Hoffman sets out in his judgment above, the background knowledge of the parties 
enables them, where appropriate, to conclude that they must (for whatever reason) have 
used the wrong words or syntax. It does not mean that any error must automatically be 
construed against the party that drafted the contract and in favour of those that didnt, as B 
submits; it must still yield to business commonsense. 
I understand that B thinks the policy exclusion does make sense and reads coherently with 
condition 7. But Im not persuaded that it does, and neither do I think the notional 
reasonable person would either, having all the background knowledge of the parties at the 
time the contract was entered into.
DAS say that the primary exclusion ought to have referenced condition 9, which they will be 
amending in their future policy documents. And Im satisfied that the reference to condition 7 
is most likely due to a drafting error rather than DAS simply trying to now move the 
goalposts, as condition 9 clearly deals with circumstances where a dispute is raised against 
DAS or Hiscox about their handling of a claim, which is directly linked to (and is the subject 
of) the primary exclusion in these circumstances. Condition 7, on the other hand, concerns DASs right to withdraw cover in the event that an appointed representative is dismissed 
without good reason or refuses to act for the insured. It doesnt deal with disputes being 
brought against DAS or Hiscox, or any such related scenarios. Indeed, it is focused primarily 
on what the insurer can do in the event of a dispute arising between the insured and the 
appointed representative, rather than between the insured and the insurer directly. So, I do 
not consider that condition 7 fits coherently or can reasonably be read in conjunction with the 
primary exclusion so as to make sense, and I think the reasonable person in these 
circumstances would objectively understand that this was a mistake. 
The House of Lords case of Mannai Investments Co. Ltd. v. Eagle Star Life Assurance Co. 
Ltd. [1997] 2 WLR 945 dealt with a similar scenario where an obvious mistake had been 
made by one of the parties. In that case it was an incorrect date that had been used in a 
notification, but the House of Lords didnt hold the mistaken party to a strict standard of the 
incorrect date because it was reasonably obvious that an error had been made. In his 
judgment, Lord Steyn said:
I propose to begin by examining the way we interpret utterances in everyday life. It is 
a matter of constant experience that people can convey their meaning 
unambiguously although they have used the wrong words. We start with an 
assumption that people will use words and grammar in a conventional way but quite 
often it becomes obvious that, for one reason or another, they are not doing so and 
we adjust our interpretation of what they are saying accordingly. We do so in order to 
make sense of their utterance: so that the different parts of the sentence fit together 
in a coherent way and also to enable the sentence to fit the background of facts 
which plays an indispensable part in the way we interpret what anyone is saying. No 
one, for example, has any difficulty in understanding Mrs. Malaprop. When she says 
'She is as obstinate as an allegory on the banks of the Nile,' we reject the 
conventional or literal meaning of allegory as making nonsense of the sentence and 
substitute 'alligator' by using our background knowledge of the things likely to be 
found on the banks of the Nile and choosing one which sounds rather like 'allegory.'
Mrs. Malaprop's problem was an imperfect understanding of the conventional 
meanings of English words. But the reason for the mistake does not really matter. 
We use the same process of adjustment when people have made mistakes about 
names or descriptions or days or times because they have forgotten or become 
mixed up.
Lord Steyn went on to say that the knowledge of the background against which an utterance 
is made enables us to understand a speakers meaning, without ambiguity, even though they 
have used the wrong words, which was why the fact that the wrong notification date had 
been used in that case did not render it invalid, as the reasonable person wouldve known 
which date was meant.  
In Bs case, given that condition 9 expressly covers scenarios where the insured has a 
dispute against DASs handling of the claim and condition 7 doesnt, I think the reasonable 
person would have understood that a mistake had been made  and that what the insurer 
meant to say was condition 9. The primary exclusion does not make sense otherwise, as 
theres no reasonable scenario where a dispute against DAS or Hiscox could not otherwise 
be dealt with under condition 7.
I appreciate that different sections of the policy do refer to other instances of DAS potentially 
covering disputes about the wrongful refusal of an insurance claim:
What is not coveredThe settlement payable under an insurance policy (we will cover a dispute if an 
insurer refuses the policyholders claim but not a dispute over the amount of a claim)
However, in my opinion, this section cannot reasonably be construed as meaning that DAS 
or Hiscox will cover claims against themselves when they have declined a claim; it suggests 
that they will cover claims against other insurers. And its clear from the list of main 
exclusions that disputes against DAS or Hiscox are not covered by the policy (it is also 
standard industry practice for insurers to exclude legal expenses cover for claims that would 
fund legal action being brought against themselves  for conflict-of-interest reasons that 
strike me as obvious). So, even with the background knowledge of a term that covers 
disputes against other insurers, I still think the reasonable person would understand that a 
simple mistake had been made when DAS listed condition 7 rather than condition 9. I dont 
think many policyholders would expect an insurer to fund litigation against itself and/or its co-
insurers. That would defy all logic and commonsense. 
It is also clear from condition 9 that DAS and Hiscox require any disputes against them to go 
through a complaints and arbitration procedure rather than the insurer having to fund legal 
action against themselves in this regard. So, in my judgment, it would also flout business 
commonsense to disregard that any error had been made here. It must therefore be made to 
yield to business commonsense, which is to replace condition 7 with the originally intended 
condition 9. 
Taking all of the above considerations into account, I am satisfied that the reasonable 
person with all the background knowledge in these circumstances would understand that a 
mistake had been made. So I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to now direct 
DAS to cover Bs legal claim against Hiscox. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O  on behalf 
of B  to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman