DRN-1557867
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Ferratum UK Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.        
What happened
Ferratum has provided some information which has been used to produce a summary of the 
lending and it is in this table below. The credit agreements provided and the Ferratum 
information received by us differ in the amounts borrowed. And one loan agreement appears 
to be missing. This Loan Table is an indication of the lending relationship and is not to be 
relied on for accuracy: for any redress purposes Ferratum needs to use its records.
Some loans were rejected by Ferratum. I have included them in the loan table for the 
complete picture.
Loan Approved Amount Repaid Additional notes
1 17 November 2016 £100* 28 November 2016 Paid on time
2 30 November 2016 £100* 6 December 2016 Repaid early
Applications on 9 and 12 December 2016 for £1,000 and £700 were rejected by Ferratum
3 17 December 2016 £200* 27 January 2017 Repaid late
4 29 January 2017 £100* 31 January 2017 Repaid early
5 6 February 2017 £100* 28 February 2017 Repaid on time
6 8 March 2017 £500 24 May 2017 PLP - 3 
instalments
Application on 2 June 2017 for £400 rejected by Ferratum
7 2 June 2017 £400 25 August 2017PLP - 3 
instalments
Applications on 29 and 30 August 2017 rejected by Ferratum
8 30 August 2017 £150* 28 September 2017 On time
Application on 28 September 2017 rejected by Ferratum
9 28 September 2017 £150* 24 October 2017 Repaid early
10 24 October 2017 £400 19 December 2017PLP - 3 
instalments11 2 January 2018 £150 30 January 2018 ML
12 30 January 2018 £600 27 September 2018 PLP 4 instalments
 
* These loans were one type of loan and differed from the others. Ferratum structured its 
lending in such a way that it approved a credit limit under a running account credit facility, 
and then under the umbrella of that overall agreement, a series of drawdowns were 
approved. For some types of credit offered, Ferratum would not allow a drawdown if the 
previous amount remained outstanding. An amount drawn down plus a fee had to be repaid 
within the Repayment Deadline. The agreement says:
The Term is the number of days from the Drawdown Date to the Repayment Deadline in 
relation to each Drawdown and is the number of days you have to repay the Drawdown. The 
Term begins on the Drawdown Date and ends on the Repayment Deadline. The possible 
Term is always between 7 and 37 days and always on your salary date. 
The credit limit approved in November 2016 was £500. We have treated these as payday 
loans.
Loan 6 was a fixed Sum Loan agreement for £500 repayable over three months.
Ferratum looked at Mr Ks complaint and did not think it had done anything wrong. To 
resolve the complaint, it offered a £300 refund. Mr K refused and brought his complaint to 
us.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Ferratum should put things 
right for each of the 12 loans. Ferratum disagreed and in relation to the earlier loans, said: 
The loans ranged from £100.00 to £200.00. There was nothing to suggest the lending was 
not sustainable.  
But it conceded on Loans 7 to 12 to resolve the case. They are highlighted in grey on the 
Loan Table above. As these are not disputed, I do not need to review them.
Mr K did not accept this offer, and the complaint remains unresolved in respect of Loans 1 to 
6. It was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance 
and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
Ferratum was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular the customer should be 
able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
As I have outlined in the Loan Table, some loans were declined. No further information has 
been provided as to why the loans were rejected  only that the process was automated, 
and that Mr K did not meet the lending criteria when making an application for these loans.
Ferratum has told us that The income used for all applications was £1501.00 with £800.00 
expenses each month. So it would have appeared that Mr K had about £700 of disposable 
income to cover loan repayments.
Ferratum referred to credit search checks it had done, and said that We acted on the 
information provided and the facts available to us.
The credit search results are undated and so I am not able to tell which one was carried out 
before which particular loan. But each one identifies that Mr K had between 3 and 5 other 
lenders short-term loans (STL) outstanding. And so, I have felt it was reasonable for me to 
use the information I have about Mr Ks financial situation to see what it was Ferratum likely 
discovered. And having cross-referenced information on Mr Ks personal credit report, 
looked at his bank statements and used what we have about Mr Ks loan situation, then it 
appears that from the beginning Mr K had a lot of other STL outstanding. I think he had six 
outstanding with six other lenders with a combined repayment due that month 
(November 2016) of about £1,100. I think that this ought to have been factored in from the 
start.
Ferratum says that for Loans 1 and 2 proportionate checks were carried out. On the 
information given to Ferratum about Mr Ks income and expenditure, combined with the 
outstanding STL repayments due, then I do not think that Loans 1 and 2 were affordable at 
£100 each. And the credit limit approved in November 2016 was £500 which, taking into account the complete picture clearly was not affordable.  I uphold Mr Ks complaint about 
Loans 1 and 2.
The refusals of two loans in December 2016, both of which had been applications for large 
sums, ought to have prompted Ferratum to do more extensive checks. For a customer to 
return quickly in the high-cost credit market asking for such large increases in loan amounts, 
ought to have been an alert to Ferratum that Mr K likely had reasons for needing this much 
money, so soon after his earlier loans, and on such high interest rates. I appreciate that on 
Ferratums systems these were declined and so on one level demonstrates that its systems 
worked. But on the approach expected by the FCA  credit worthiness assessment from the 
borrowers perspective  then I think that a full financial review ought to have been carried 
out.
I am not clear whether Ferratum did that and so I have looked at all the information I have, 
including reviewing Mr Ks banks statements for the time around December 2016. As well as 
there being the continuing issue that Mr K had a large number of outstanding STL for that 
period, I can also see from his bank statements that  many of the transactions were 
payments to betting and gaming sites. These were regular and amounted to large sums 
each week. So, I think that had Ferratum seen this it would have realised that lending further 
to Mr K was not a responsible approach.
So, I uphold from Loan 3 to 6 on that basis.
Ferratum has conceded in relation to loans 7 to 12 and so for completeness I include them 
here.
Putting things right
I think that Ferratum should not have given Mr K loans 1 to 12. And I direct that Ferratum 
does as follows: 
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not 
including anything already refunded;
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr K which were 
considered as part of A and calculated from the date Mr K originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled;
C) pay Mr K the combined total of A and B.
D) remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to 
loans 1 to 6. The overall pattern of Mr Ks borrowing for loans 7 to 12 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Ferratum should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ks credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Ferratum intends 
to use the refund to off-set against any outstanding balance it must do that after tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and I direct that Ferratum UK Ltd does as 
I have outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman