DRN-4323908
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to recover money that he sent to an 
overseas account.
What happened
Between July 2022 and August 2022, Mr P made three international payments from his 
Santander account to an account held by his partner. On 7 December 2022, he sent £631.05 
to the overseas account, but his partner told him their account was blocked and the funds 
never reached the account.
Mr P contacted Santander to ask it to recover the funds. Santander said hed been scammed 
and placed a temporary restriction on his online banking facility. Mr P didnt accept hed 
been the victim of a scam, but Santander said the temporary restriction was due to concerns 
that hed been the victim of a scam. It also said hed authorised the payment, so it wasnt 
liable for any financial loss. And it had been unable to recover any funds from the recipient 
bank. 
Mr P complained to this service. He explained Santander said he had been the victim of a 
romance scam and blocked his account. He attended the branch to provide evidence, but it 
said it wouldnt investigate his claim unless he admitted it was a romance scam.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Santander 
had tried to reach out to the receiving bank, but it hadnt received a response and there was 
nothing further it could have reasonably done. And she didnt think the outcome would have 
been any different if it had tried to recover the funds sooner. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He 
maintains he wasnt scammed, and he feels hes been forced to say he was. He has said 
there is no proof that he was scammed, and he feels the calls he had with Santander should 
be listened to because he doesnt feel his complaint was properly investigated.
He wants to know where his money is now and why the receiving bank didnt respond to 
Santanders enquiries. He also wants to know why Santander havent tried again to recover 
the funds and why it hasnt taken responsibility for the fact the funds went missing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute that Mr P authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. He doesnt 
accept he was scammed, so I wont consider whether Santander could have done anything 
before he made the payment to prevent a scam from occurring. And Santander said the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code didnt apply in this case because the 
payment was international, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Santander has explained that, when Mr P contacted it to tell it the payment wasnt received 
in the recipient account, it froze his account because it suspected hed been the victim of a 
scam. Im satisfied that was reasonable. And while I understand that Mr P doesnt believe he 
was scammed, in the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to have 
considered it was possible. And I dont think its decision to place a temporary restriction on 
the account resulted in any loss or unfairness to Mr P.
Santander attempted to contact the recipient bank when Mr P reported to it that the funds 
hadnt been received but didnt receive a response. Mr P is unhappy that it didnt keep trying, 
but Im satisfied it did all it reasonably could to recover the funds. And in the absence of a 
response from the recipient bank, theres nothing further it could have done to recover Mr 
Ps money.
Mr P has said he wants me to listen to the calls he had with Santander, but Ive considered 
all the evidence, and Im satisfied there is sufficient information for me to properly review the 
issues he has complained about.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander took the correct steps after being notified of the potential 
loss. Im sorry to hear Mr P has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santander is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman