DRN-3102033
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard failed to reduce his fixed 
monthly payment despite being advised he was suffering with serious health concerns and in 
financial difficulties.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In June 2020 Mr S daughter contacted Barclaycard to notify it he had suffered some serious 
health problems that severely limited his mobility. She asked Barclaycard to waive the 
outstanding balance.
Barclaycard then contacted Mr S directly as it didnt have authority to discuss the credit card 
with his daughter and asked him to provide authority for his daughter to act.
Mr S had a fixed payment of £150 set up but in December 2020 contacted Barclaycard and 
asked to reduce it to the minimum payment. Mr S gave details of the serious medical 
problems hed gone through to Barclaycard and explained he was struggling to maintain his 
fixed payment. Barclaycard agreed to reduce Mr S payment but didnt cancel the existing 
direct debit and collected £150.
Mr S complained and Barclaycard responded in April 2020. Barclaycard said that, if Mr 
S wanted his payment back, he could complete a direct debit indemnity claim with his 
bank. Barclaycard apologised for the error and offered Mr S £100.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Barclaycard had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr S asked to appeal and explained hed been in contact with Barclaycard on multiple 
occasions to discuss financial difficulties. Mr S also said Barclaycard had unlawfully 
applied interest charges. As Mr S didnt accept the investigators view, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and argument to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard has been aware for some time that Mr S suffered multiple severe medical 
conditions and was very unwell during the period in question. When Mr S asked to reduce 
his fixed payments at the beginning of December 2020, Barclaycards notes show he 
gave full details of his health problems and why he had to reduce his monthly payment. 
So Im satisfied Barclaycard was aware Mr S needed support.
Its clear Barclaycard made an error and failed to amend the payment instruction. As a 
result, it took £150 instead of the much lower figure it wouldve collected on a minimum 
payment basis. I can see how distressed Mr S became at Barclaycards error. I think its 
reasonable to say that Barclaycards error meant Mr S didnt receive support at a very 
difficult time.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning how to resolve Mr S complaint. I 
dont agree the £100 settlement Barclaycard offered goes far enough and doesnt reflect the 
impact of the issues raised on Mr S. I understand Mr S feels Barclaycards offer should be 
increased to around £5,000 but I havent found grounds to make an award of that nature.
That being said, I think Barclaycard should increase its offer from £100 to £250, a figure that 
more fairly reflects the impact of its error on Mr S. As Ive said above, because of the 
difficulties Mr S was experiencing at the time, Barclaycards error had a significant effect.
In his response to the investigator, Mr S said Barclaycard had unlawfully charged interest 
but I havent found that to be the case. Barclaycard has applied interest in line with the 
information given in its statements. Barclaycard explained it could consider waiving interest 
and providing more formal assistance to Mr S. But that wouldve had an adverse impact on 
his credit file. Barclaycard also said Mr S would need to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment. Mr S told Barclaycard he didnt want to proceed.
Whilst Barclaycard didnt agree to write off Mr S balance, when he sent medical evidence at 
the end of November 2020 it did act to stop any future over limit fees being applied.
I dont doubt how serious Mr S health problems were, but I wouldnt expect Barclaycard to 
write off a debt without first considering a customers circumstances in detail. In addition, 
Barclaycard is obliged to accurately report how an account is handled, including whether its 
repaid in full. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but, aside from its error in not cancelling his fixed 
payment, I havent found that Barclaycard treated him unfairly when he told it about his 
difficulties.
For the reasons Ive given above, Im dont think Barclaycards existing offer is fair. Based on 
everything Ive seen, I intend to uphold Mr S complaint and tell Barclaycard to increase the
award from £100 to £250.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr S responded to confirm his acceptance 
of the provisional decision. Barclaycard also responded and confirmed it was willing to settle 
in line with the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im please both parties are willing to settle in line with the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. In its response, Barclaycard said it wanted to settle informally. But Mr S 
has asked for a decision concerning his complaint so Im proceeding to issue this follow up, 
final decision.   
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached. I still think Barclaycard should increase the total award from £100 to 
£250, for the same reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay Mr S a total of £250 (less any compensation already paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman