DRN-4110218
The complaint
Mr H complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading as Cabot Financial 
(Europe) Limited misled him when making offers to him to settle the balances on his 
outstanding debt. 
What happened
Mr H has eight separate accounts which are now owned by Cabot  these accounts are 
made up of debts from other lenders. Mr H says that Cabot wrote to him to offer him a 70% 
discount on the balances. However, when he got in touch with Cabot, he was told that the 
70% discount only applied to one of those accounts  two accounts would be at 30%, three 
accounts at 20% and two accounts with no discount. Mr H also added that he couldnt repay 
the balances within the 12 months Cabot had said would be allowed for the offers  and so 
Cabot havent treated him fairly in allowing him more time to repay at a discount.
To resolve things, Mr H would like Cabot to either return the accounts back to the original 
lenders or offer a discount of 70% on all of his accounts. He also wants his repayments to be 
flexible and not to have to repay them within 12 months as this isnt affordable for him.
Cabot didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H remained unhappy with Cabots response. He felt that he had been scammed and 
conned by Cabot  by it making offers to him and not being flexible on the timeframe to 
repay these. He said he wouldnt be able to repay the balance within the 12 months Cabot 
said it would allow for the discount.
The Investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but they didnt think it should be upheld. They 
confirmed that Cabot hadnt applied interest to any of Mr Hs accounts. And they explained 
how the offers worked and why they didnt think that Cabot had done anything wrong when 
offering these. Mr H didnt agree with the Investigator and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
Mr H is aware that this service has already considered a complaint about Cabot, and I can 
see that he remains unhappy about some of these issues. Because a decision has been 
made on that case, I cant make a finding on any of these same points in this decision. This 
means that this decision will purely focus on the most recent offers Cabot put to Mr H in 
November 2022. All of Mr Hs other points have been previously considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mr Hs situation. Its clear that hes been
through a difficult time with his finances which has, no doubt, caused him much upset and 
worry. 
In reaching my decision, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation
Mr H is in. But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both 
parties have said. I can only ask a business, like Cabot, to put something right, where it has 
done something wrong. And I dont find that Cabot has done anything wrong in this case. So, 
it follows that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I note that the previous ombudsman has already considered some offers that Cabot made to 
Mr H. This decision covers the more recent (November 2022) offers, however the findings of 
the previous Ombudsman are still relevant here, and I agree with the findings theyve made. 
The previous Ombudsman said:
Cabots settlement offers were made on the basis that Mr H would pay them over no more 
than three months. I appreciate that Mr H was only able to offer token payments but this 
doesnt mean that Cabot had to agree to token payments on the discounted balance. When 
Cabot made the discounted offers, it also reminded Mr H that he could continue paying 
towards his current plan. This seems fair.
Not much has changed since. The November 2022 offers were at a reduction as long as Mr 
H repaid the balance within 12 months. As with the previous offers, Mr H confirmed he still 
wasnt in a financial position to do this and continued to make nominal repayments towards 
the debts. Cabot asked Mr H some questions about his financial situation, and he explained 
that he was still struggling. I note that Mr H has also made reference to Cabot not applying 
the same level of discount to all the debts he has with it. 
It is up to Cabot how it offers and applies discounts to balances  this is a commercial 
decision which is up to Cabot to make, and this service generally wont get involved with this. 
But I would expect Cabot to ensure that where it does make an offer, it checks this is 
affordable to the consumer before applying it. In this case, Mr H said that he couldnt afford 
to repay the balance within the 12 months and doing so would put him into further financial 
difficulties. Cabot has explained that because of this, Mr H can continue on the current 
repayment arrangements, which seems fair. 
It isnt unfair of Cabot to apply conditions to the offers. I can understand why Mr H might feel 
that this is unfair, but technically, the full outstanding balance is the amount due. And any 
offer to reduce the balance at a discounted rate is at Cabots discretion.
It is possible that Cabot might make Mr H offers in the future, and its likely that conditions 
will also apply to those offers  which might include a time limit to repay the balance for the 
offer to apply. Cabot would also need to check these offers are affordable to Mr H. There 
isnt anything wrong in Cabot doing this. 
I have noted that Mr H has referred to the government website which he says states he 
could get an 80% reduction in his balances. Based on what Mr H has said, I think hes 
referring to a debt relief order or other individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). These are 
both legally binding agreements and not something Cabot is obliged to offer Mr H on an 
informal basis. Mr H would need to seek his own independent advice about these 
arrangements. He could do this by contacting a debt charity. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman