Complaint
Mr T has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions he says he didnt make 
or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In January 2020, an overdraft was set up on Mr Ts Monzo account. £1,065 was sent to 
another Monzo user, who also paid £70 to Mr T, and went on to make further transfers to 
Mr Ts account with another bank. 
The same night the disputed activity finished, Mr T contacted Monzo to say it wasnt him. He 
did this on the same device that had just been used for the alleged fraud. He went through 
identity checks, ordered a new card, and changed his PIN. He said no one else had his last 
PIN, it wasnt recorded anywhere, and his device was secure and with him the whole time.
Mr T then chased Monzo over the following days using his normal device, frequently 
referencing his above fraud report.
Monzo held Mr T liable for the payments in dispute. They noted that hed reported the 
payments on the same device that was used to carry them out. The activity had used Mr Ts 
genuine account and PIN. And the person who received the money had made payments to 
Mr Ts Monzo account and his account with another bank.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint, for much 
the same reasons. Additionally, he didnt see a likely way someone had learned Mr Ts PIN 
without his permission.
Mr T didnt agree. He said he was in another country at the time. He said he may have 
actually told people his PIN. He said that it wasnt him that reported the payment; it was the 
fraudster. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly, Monzo can hold Mr T liable for the payments in dispute if he authorised them, which 
includes giving someone else permission to make them.
Im satisfied from Monzos technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Ts 
genuine account, which needed his PIN. This is not enough, on its own, for Monzo to hold 
DRN-1793480Mr T liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its most likely 
Mr T consented to the transactions, or not.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, it seems 
most likely that Mr T did consent to them, and so I dont think its unrea sonable for Monzo to 
hold Mr T liable for the transactions in dispute. Ill explain my reasoning.
It is very unlikely that a thief would pay money into their victims accounts. Here, they not 
only paid £70 into Mr Ts Monzo account, but made further substantial payments into his 
account with another bank. That other account is in Mr Ts name, and Mr T has made 
previous genuine transactions with it. They paid Mr T using proceeds from the alleged fraud, 
which strongly indicates that this was done with his consent.
There doesnt seem to be a likely way that someone was able to access Mr Ts account 
without his permission. He said his device was secure and was with him the whole time, his 
PIN wasnt written down, and until recently he said that he hadnt told anyone his PIN. And 
its difficult for me to take his sudden change in testimony to be correct, when its so different 
to what was said before.
Some of the network addresses used for Mr Ts genuine activity match the addresses used 
for the now-disputed payments, which indicates they may also have been genuine.
Importantly, Mr T reported the payments just minutes after they finished, from the very same 
device that had just been used for the disputed activity. And it does not seem plausible or 
likely that someone was able to access one of Mr Ts devices, somehow learn his PIN, make 
these payments, and then give the device back to him just in time for his report, all without 
his permission and without him ever noticing them doing it.
Mr T now says that he never reported the payments, and said it was the thief. But aside from 
it making little sense for a fraudster to report their own fraud, Im satisfied that the report was 
made by Mr T for the following reasons:
Mr T re-identified himself as part of the report, sending a photo of his ID and a selfie 
video
 
Mr T ordered a new card and changed his PIN as part of that conversation with 
Monzo. Had this not been him, he wouldve been unable to access his account after 
the report. But he continued to use his account straight afterwards using his new PIN
 
Mr T frequently referred to making this report himself in his subsequent 
conversations with Monzo, as well as in his correspondence with our service
 
This was the only time the transactions were reported  Mr T didnt make any later 
duplicate report, and his entire complaint has flowed from that conversation. Had that 
not been Mr T, this case with our service wouldnt exist
 
When Mr T has changed his testimony so starkly and given information that so heavily 
contradicts both his own prior testimony and the evidence at hand, it makes it very difficult 
for me to find that any one of his versions of events are correct.I understand Mr T was supposed to have been in another country at the time. But he 
couldve been visiting the UK, which seems plausible given that he used some of the same 
network addresses that were used for the disputed activity, and that he asked for his new 
card to be delivered to his UK address. More importantly, even if I accept that he was 
abroad, I cant rule out that he gave someone else permission to make these payments. 
That seems far more likely than them being unauthorised, given the issues with Mr Ts 
testimony, and that Mr T received proceeds from the alleged fraudster, and that he used the 
same device as them just after they used it.
In summary, based on the evidence, it isnt likely or plausible that someone did this without 
Mr Ts consent. But it is both likely and plausible that Mr T made the transactions or gave 
someone else permission to make them while he was abroad. This is a difficult message for 
me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr T to receive. But given the evidence 
I have and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Monzo to hold Mr T liable in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman