DRN-2947952
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined his claim for a 
laptop on his Tech Pack insurance policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties.
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. She 
found that Assurant had fairly considered and declined this claim. 
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. The complaint has now been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When coming to my decision, my key considerations are:
Has Assurant fairly investigated this claim inline with the policy terms? And;
Has Assurant treated Mr R fairly and reasonably overall when handling this claim?
Having considered all of the evidence, I have to tell Mr R that I dont uphold his complaint 
and Ill explain why below.
Mr R has said he thinks the last time he saw the laptop was in the boot of his vehicle in a 
shopping bag on 13 February 2021. Some time later he was looking for the laptop and 
couldnt find it. He tried to make a claim on his policy. Assurant declined the claim, relying on 
the following policy term:
We know how important your device is to you and we expect that you will take care 
of it. If you don't take care of your device then we may not pay your claim. 
Taking care of your device means:
 Not knowingly leaving your device somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged. Just think, would you leave your wallet or purse there? 
  If you need to leave your device somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out 
of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with 
someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
If you knowingly leave your device where others can see it but you cannot, and your 
device is then lost or stolen, we may not pay your claim.  We will always take into 
account where you are and what you are doing when we assess whether you have 
taken care of your device. If we believe you have not taken care of your device, and 
have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline your claim. 
In summary, Assurant say that Mr R hadnt taken care of his device by leaving it in a boot 
and that the vehicle mustve either been left unlocked (as there was no sign of forced entry) 
or left unattended at some point. 
Mr R disputes this. Hes said:
I believe that it is reasonable to conclude that the vehicle was locked at all times 
when loading/unloading was not taking place, and that the loss did not take place 
from the boot whilst the vehicle was unattended and;
It is my personal belief that someone else may have picked it up during the loading 
of the shopping, possibly whilst our backs were turned momentarily, or the item was 
set down somewhere and intercepted, or genuinely lost because it was placed in a 
location that can't be recalled and;
 there is also no evidence that the loss took place from the vehicle itself and;
there were multiple loading/unloading events on this day, the majority of which 
took place away from home address.
I find it reasonable to assume that if the last place Mr R seen the laptop was in the boot of 
the vehicle, nobody known to him with access to the vehicle removed it from the vehicle 
between the time when he last saw it and when he noticed it missing, on balance, the laptop 
was more likely than not removed from the boot of the vehicle when it was unattended or 
unlocked. In my opinion, Mr R hasnt yet provided a plausible alternative explanation of how 
the laptop has become missing. 
Although Mr R disputes that he hadnt taken care of the laptop by placing it in the boot in a 
bag, hes also said there were other items of value in the boot (including a DSLR camera 
in plain sight). In my opinion this supports that Mr R didnt take reasonable care by placing 
the laptop in the boot near to other items of value. 
Overall, Im not persuaded by the alternative explanations put forward by Mr R to the extent 
that I find Assurant have unfairly declined the claim:
In summary, I find that Assurant have fairly investigated the circumstances of this claim 
inline with the policy terms before declining it. I know Mr R will be disappointed with this 
outcome. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve his 
dispute with Assurant  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman