DRN-3656429
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) rejected their claim under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a timeshare 
purchase theyd financed. 
What happened
On or around 21 November 2010, Mr and Mrs C purchased a timeshare product from a 
company who Ill refer to as C. The purchase came about when they attended a 
presentation as a condition of a promotional holiday theyd taken.
Using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr and Mrs C initiated a claim to FHF 
under the CCA. Information suggests correspondence relating to the original claim dates 
back to April 2018. And although Ive not seen this, Ive seen a subsequent letter from the 
CMC headed Section 140a Claim which is dated February 2019. The claim, and 
subsequent correspondence, runs to several pages. So, it isnt practical to repeat the 
contents in full here. But I will provide a summary of the key points below.
The CMC allege that Mr and Mrs C purchased the timeshare product having relied upon 
representations made by C that turned out not to be true. And under section 75 of the CCA 
(S75), FHF is jointly liable for those misrepresentations. 
In particular, the CMC allege that C told Mr and Mrs C:
the resort was exclusive to timeshare members of C;
the product purchased was a beneficial investment; and
holidays could be booked readily and easily.
The CMC have also suggested that those misrepresentation, amongst other things, led to an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under section 140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, 
that there were various breaches of the regulations and legislation that applied at the time. 
These included:
Mr and Mrs C werent informed the meeting was a high pressure sales presentation;
the product operated in perpetuity by lasting for more than 50 years:
Mr and Mrs Cs heirs may inherit any associated liability in the future;
the product agreement provided no fixed accommodation or time;
C breached their fiduciary responsibilities to Mr and Mrs C by not offering alternative 
funding options or financial sources, and not divulging commission paid to them by 
FHF;
Financial checks werent completed to establish whether Mr and Mrs C could afford 
to sustainably repay the finance agreed;
the product agreement was in breach of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010;
the purchase agreement, and as a result, the loan agreement, is null and void 
pursuant to Spanish Law; and
as a points-based timeshare, the agreement breached article 9 of the EU Directive 
2008/122/EC.
FHF responded and explained theyd passed the allegations to C to investigate. C 
strenuously denied them, saying that the documents that Mr and Mrs C had signed set out 
the arrangements clearly. It denied that the arrangements had been misrepresented or that 
they amounted to an investment. C also didnt agree that there was any cause for the 
relationship to be found as unfair.
The CMC didnt agree with Cs findings and responded to FHF reiterating a number of the 
points above together with reasons why they didnt agree. The CMC also referred Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint to this service.
One of our investigators agreed to look into the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Whilst doing so, FHF provided their own reasons for supporting the rejection of Mr and Mrs 
Cs claim. They said:
theyd completed all necessary underwriting procedures to ensure the loan was 
affordable. 
no commissions had been paid to C. 
Mrs and Mrs C benefitted from the statutory 14-day withdrawal period, which hadnt 
been exercised;
Mr and Mrs C had adequate time to review the purchase and loan documents at their 
leisure;
Thered been no breaches of the legislation and regulations that applied at the time; 
and
As the product sale had been completed more than six years before the claim was 
submitted, that claim was out of time under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA).
Having considered all the evidence and fact, our investigator didnt think FHFs decision to 
turn down Mr and Mrs Cs claim was unfair or unreasonable. In particular they thought any 
claim under S75 was likely to be out of time. They also didnt find sufficient cause to suggest 
the relationship was unfair under S140A. Our investigator didnt agree the loan was null and 
void as they thought the legislation referred to by the CMC didnt apply here.
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings and thought they were at odds with 
the precedent decision reachedin the [C] fractional matter. 
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Cs complaint has been passed to 
me to consider further and reach a final decision. The CMC said they wished to rely on a 46-
page document produced by Counsel containing Generic submissions on behalf of 
complainants which relates specifically to complaints about the sale of points products by C. 
They also made further representations about the assessment of Mr and Mrs Cs ability to 
make repayments and suggested C did not broker proper credit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook means Im 
required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr and Mrs 
C paid for the timeshare product with a restricted use fixed sum loan agreement, so it isnt in 
dispute that S75 applies here. This means that theyre afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like them under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr C, Mrs C and FHF arising out of 
the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And because the product 
purchased was funded under the credit agreement, its deemed to be a related agreement. 
Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, 
Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is 
because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a loan with FHF - took place in 
November 2010. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant law, 
Ive considered the effect this might also have.
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the legal 
claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I believe FHFs 
response to Mr and Mrs Cs claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and 
information available to me, rather than deciding the legal claim itself. 
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal 
service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the 
role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this 
doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address every 
single point thats been made in my decision. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The CMC say C misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and benefits to Mr 
and Mrs C when they agreed to purchase the product. And they believe this could bring 
cause for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mr and Mrs C had to 
make a claim within six years of when they entered into the purchase contract and credit 
agreement. The CMC confirm this took place in November 2010. Thats because this is 
when they say Mr and Mrs C lost out having relied upon the alleged false statements of fact 
at that time.
Its not entirely clear when details of the alleged misrepresentations were first raised, 
although the letter of claim Ive seen is dated February 2019. In any event, it appears the 
claim was initiated more than six years after the purchase was completed and Mr and Mrs C 
first say they lost out. So, I believe a court is likely to find that her claim falls outside of the 
time limit permitted in the LA. And because of that, I cant fairly say that FHFs decision to 
decline any claim under S75 ultimately appears unreasonable here. Ive also not found any 
reason why that limitation might be postponed.
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, the High 
Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be determined by having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination. In that case, that was the date of the trial or otherwise the date 
the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mr C, Mrs C and Hitachi continues while the finance agreement 
remains live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the borrowing 
under it has been repaid. And as it appears Ms Ls loan was still active at the time of the 
claim, I believe any claim under S140A is likely to have been made in time under the 
provisions of the LA.
Is there evidence of misrepresentation?
Under S140A, in determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have regard for 
anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor. So, I think the alleged 
misrepresentations are, therefore, relevant here. Even though I dont think they can be 
considered under S75 due to limitation
The CMC have provided limited details and evidence to support the representations Mr and 
Mrs C say C made. Ive not been provided with any specific statements from Mr and Mrs C 
setting out their direct memories but acknowledge that they do say they were told these 
things. So, Ive thought about this alongside the evidence thats available from the time of 
the sale. Although not determinative of the matter, Ive not seen any documentation or 
evidence from the time of the sale, such as marketing material or purchase documentation, 
which supports what Mr and Mrs C say they were told or that what was said amounted to 
misrepresentation. Because of that, I cant reasonably say that a court would likely find that 
the alleged misrepresentations led to unfairness under S140A.
What were Cs fiduciary responsibilities to Mr and Mrs C?
Part of Mr and Mrs Cs S140A claim is based upon the status of C (as the introducer of the 
loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards them. Its argued that the payment of 
commission by FHF to C was kept from Mr and Mrs C, and C also didnt explore alternative 
funding options and providers. But I dont think the fact that FHF might have paid C 
commission was incompatible with their role in the transaction. C wasnt acting as an agent 
of Mr and Mrs C, but as the supplier of contractual rights obtained under the timeshare 
product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt 
appear it was Cs role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr 
and Mrs C advice or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mr and Mrs C were 
always at liberty to choose how they wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest FHF were under any regulatory duty to 
disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is there any 
suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs C requested those details from FHF. As I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like C in this 
case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. In actual fact, both C and FHF have 
confirmed that no commission was paid here. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely 
that a court would find that there existed an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A.
The sales process
Various allegations have been made by the CMC about the process and tactics used by C 
leading up to and as part of the sales presentation at the time. But I havent seen any 
evidence from the time of the sale, or detailed statements and recollections to support those allegations. The allegations are supplemented by a number of points included in the 
Counsels submission about allegations of pressure. However, these were generic points 
and not specific to Mr and Mrs Cs recollections of the sale. So, I dont think they offered 
much help in making factual findings of pressure in their specific case.
C have confirmed that Mr and Mrs C already held an existing timeshare points product that 
theyd purchased previously from them. So, I think its fair to assume theyd attended 
previous meetings and presentations. Importantly, this purchase appears to relate to the 
acquisition of additional points to supplement their existing points holding. It wasnt a new 
product purchase and Mr and Mrs C werent new customers. So, its likely they wouldve 
benefitted from their previous experience and what they might expect from the meeting and 
sales presentation.
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have regard to all 
matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor [FHF] and matters 
relating to the debtor1 [Mr and Mrs C]).
Whilst there might be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might have 
led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to be taken 
within the context of Mr and Mrs Cs overall experience. And even if I was to find that some 
of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such finding  I 
think its unlikely that a court might say this led to a sufficiently extreme imbalance in 
knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Is Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare agreement null and void?
Mr and Mrs Cs purchase agreement makes clear that its governed by English Law - not 
Spanish law (see clause P of the Acquisition Agreement Terms and Conditions). So, I dont 
think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the question of whether Mr and Mrs 
Cs timeshare agreement is voidable under English law. And I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to conclude it should be voidable, given UK Parliament recently published 
a briefing paper in the House of Commons Library titled: Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners, in which it said that a floating week or points-based timeshare was a 
basic timeshare model that was not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. And 
while this didnt come into force until three months after Mr and Mrs C purchased the 
product, Im satisfied that these types of timeshares have never been prohibited to be sold 
under English law, either at the time of the sale or after. So, based on the evidence I have 
seen, I dont think either the timeshare agreement or the related loan agreement is voidable 
for the reasons Ive said.
Ive noted that the courts have previously held that a clause within the acquisition 
agreement, that applied to the product Mr and Mrs C purchased, did create an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship. But its important that each case is considered on its own merits. The 
presence of an unfair, or potentially unfair term alone wont, in my view, mean a court would 
automatically deem the relationship unfair. And in Mr and Mrs Cs case, I havent seen (and 
it hasnt been alleged) that terms were applied or operated unfairly against them.
Its also relevant that Mr and Mrs C chose themselves to trade in their membership with C in 
April 2013 against a new timeshare product provided by another supplier. So, it appears 
their membership ceased at that point. The CMC argue that no value was extended at that 
time although it seems unlikely it wouldve been deemed an acceptable trade-in without any 
value being attributed. If that were the case, then I see no incentive for either the new 
supplier or Mr and Mrs C to use it as part of that transaction.
Was a credit assessment completed?
1 CCA section 140A (2)The CMC claim a credit worthiness assessment wasnt completed to ensure that the loan 
was affordable for Mr and Mrs C.
FHF have told this service they carried out standard underwriting procedures to ensure the 
loan was affordable for Mr and Mrs C based upon the information theyd provided at the 
point of sale. No specific evidence of their credit assessment or details of Mr and Mrs Cs 
credit file or credit score at the time have been provided. And given the passage of time, I 
wouldnt reasonably expect that information to still be readily available. But I have seen a 
copy of the credit application Mr and Mrs C completed at the time of the sale which included 
their personal details together with their earnings and employment situation
Even if I were to find that FHF hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I 
make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, 
they would have revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr and 
Mrs C in order to uphold their complaint here. 
The CMC havent suggested or provided any evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C, and Ive not found anything else to suggest that 
was the case. So, whether or not the checks completed by FHF were adequate, I cant 
reasonably say that Mr and Mrs C suffered any loss as a result. And because of that, I cant 
reasonably uphold this aspect of their complaint.
Turning to the CMCs comment regarding a previous decision issued by this service in which 
they acknowledge it related to a fractional timeshare product. Each case is considered on its 
own merits. So, findings of unfairness or misrepresentation in one case doesnt automatically 
mean that other cases will have the same outcome. Mr and Mrs C didnt purchase a 
fractional product. So, the circumstances and nature of the product are different here. In 
order to comply with the requirements of DISP, Ive considered the circumstances and facts 
of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint on its own merits.
Summary
Having considered all the information available, I havent found anything to reasonably 
support Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that FHFs response to their claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. And because of that, I wont be asking FHF to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman