DRN-3789762
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as F, has complained about the settlement received for its 
claim for business interruption under its business insurance policy with Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited.
Mr M, as one of the directors of F, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened 
F is a music shop. In March 2020, F contacted Hiscox to make a claim for business 
interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. F said that as a result of the Government 
restrictions imposed in March 2020, it had to close its business, which resulted in a loss of 
revenue. Hiscox initially rejected the claim. 
In June 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption 
insurance test case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and 
how they should respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in the test case 
had the same wording as Fs policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its 
judgment in January 2021. 
Following that judgment Hiscox asked F to resubmit its claim which it did in February 2021. F 
also made claims for the later periods of Government restrictions, in November 2020 and 
January 2021. Hiscox took until June 2021 to confirm that it accepted that F was required to 
close during each of the three lockdown periods and that its claims were covered. 
Hiscox assessed that F had lost £41,294 in gross profit. However, after deducting the 
furlough payments F had received and other costs savings it said F had made while closed, 
it said  there was nothing to pay in respect of lockdown one, £1,186 for lockdown 2 and 
£4,050 for lockdown 3. So Hiscox said the settlement due was £5,236 in total. 
F was not happy with the amount offered and the time take by Hiscox to deal with the claim. 
In November/December 2021 Hiscox made a revised offer of settlement of £9,358. This was 
after using the average income from the preceding six months instead of 12 months, as F 
had only started trading in early 2019 and so Hiscox said the loss of gross profit was 
£43,581 less total savings of £34,021. Hiscox says it dealt with the claim within a reasonable 
time, given the issues involved and the test case. 
F was still not happy that the settlement offered reflected its loss. After F brought the 
complaint to this service, Hiscox said it would also pay interest of at 8% per annum on the 
settlement offered in recognition of the time taken to settle the claim (based on the dates it 
could have made payment of the claim in 2020) and paid a total of £650 compensation for 
the delay and trouble caused by the matter. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He asked Hiscox to review the business plan 
and forecast provided by F, as he said this would provide a fair representation of Fs 
expected revenue over the indemnity period. 
Hiscox agreed to use this as a basis of assessment, instead of the previous months revenue 
figures. As a result it made another increased offer of settlement of £10,683.
The investigator considered this offer to be fair and reasonable and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. The Investigator also considered that the interest and compensation 
already offered was reasonable to reflect the delays in dealing with the claim.  
F still didnt agree that the offer was enough to reflect its losses and did not accept the 
Investigators assessment. F has made a number of submissions in in support of the initial 
complaint and in response to the Investigators assessment. Ive considered everything F 
has said but have summarised the main points below: 
It had to take a bounce back loan of £25,000 in November 2020 to get through the 
pandemic, which it would not have had to do if Hiscox had dealt with the claim 
properly in 2020.
Hiscox has not been clear and consistent about the way it has calculated its losses. It 
received multiple offers and it is hard to see that there has been a fair process. 
Hiscox initially based the calculation of losses on the previous years figures, which 
was its first year of trading, which does not represent the turnover it could expect in a 
normal trading year. 
Hiscox has deducted the furlough payments its staff received, which is not right. They 
were humanitarian payments to prevent redundancies, which would have been 
necessary otherwise.  
It incurred costs putting the furlough payments through his accountants at £50pm.
When it reviewed the settlement, Hiscox said it used the average of the preceding six 
months to work out the difference between its forecast figures and actual revenue but 
it didnt include the figures for Christmas, which fell in this time. 
Hiscox said it would not consider online sales but then deducted an amount from the 
settlement to reflect that it thought F had made more in online sales than it would 
normally have done, because of the closure of its premise and other stores like it. 
This is an example of Hiscoxs inconsistency.  
Hiscox has offered various final settlements and it doesnt understand how this can 
be if a fair process was in place. 
The whole matter has been extremely difficult and stressful. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Fs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be asking Hiscox to increase its offer. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered the section of cover that both parties agree is relevant to this claim below: 
The policy provides cover for loss of gross profit, including increased costs of working, as a 
result of business interruption under the following term: 
Public Authority7. Your ability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by public 
authority during the period of insurance following
b) an occurrence of a notifiable human disease within one mile of the business 
premises.
The policy sets out how it will assess the loss of gross profit as follows: 
How much we will payThe amount we pay for each item will be calculated as 
follows:
Loss of gross profit 
The sum produced by applying the rate of gross profit to any reduction in income 
during the indemnity period plus increased costs or working or alternative hire costs, 
less any business expenses or charges which cease or are reduced
Business trends
The amount we pay for loss of gross profit will be amended to reflect any special 
circumstances or business trends affecting your business, either before or after the 
loss, in order that the amount paid reflects as near as possible the result that would 
have been achieved if the insured damage, insured failure, cyber-attack or restriction 
had not occurred. 
Rate of gross profit is defined as:
The percentage produced by dividing gross profit by your income during the financial 
year immediately before the date of any insured damage, insured failure or 
restriction.
I do not think there is any debate about the rate of gross profit but F is unhappy with the 
amount Hiscox has said it lost in gross profit during the indemnity period and that it has 
made certain deductions to that loss figure. 
The policy term above makes clear that business trends will be taken into account and 
Hiscox agreed to do so. 
F had only been trading for around a year before the first lockdown happened. Hiscox 
therefore said it would base its calculations on the previous six months trading, rather than 
over 12 months, as the first few months of trading would probably not be a fair 
representation of the business performance. It initially included the Christmas period in this. 
However, F said it would have achieved higher sales than Hiscox said in the closure period if 
it had been able to remain open. 
The policy provides that Hiscox would normally look at past performance but after the 
complaint was considered by the Investigator, Hiscox agreed to use the forecast revenue 
figures F had provided in its business plan instead. F provided two sets of forecast figures, 
one which he says was realistic and one that was more optimistic about expected revenue. 
Hiscox used the realistic figures F provided and compared the forecast figures from 
September 2019 to February 2020 against the actual performance in that time. When doing 
so, it excluded the December 2019 figures. Hiscox said thered been a peak in December 
2019 but as the indemnity periods did not include the Christmas period, it was reasoanel to 
exclude this. Having done so, it said the actual performance was 4.49% less than the forecast figures, so it applied this percentage to the forecast figures for the indemnity 
periods, to work out what F was likely to have achieved in actual revenue if it had not had to 
close in the three closure periods. And offered the forecast figures less 4.49% in settlement. 
I think this was fair. As it is reasonable to consider that F would have continued performing 
at 4.49% less than the forecast figures. And I also agree it was reasonable to exclude the 
December 2019 figures, as these were not reflective of normal months performance and the 
indemnity periods didnt include Christmas. I also note that the percentage that actual 
performance was less than actual performance would have been just over -20%, if Hiscox it 
had used the 12 month period for comparison. So I think it was fair to use the figures for the 
previous six months instead. 
F has also complained that Hiscox used the lower realistic forecast figures but if it had used 
the optimistic forecast figures that difference between the actual sales against forecast 
would have been greater (-13.11%) so it would be entitled to make a more substantial 
deduction to expected performance. I do not therefore think the figures Hiscox used have 
disadvantaged F.
F also said Hiscox has based its calculations on the number of days it was closed but it 
opens six days a week so he thinks this is not accurate. Hiscox has said it doesnt matter 
how many trading days there are in the indemnity periods, as it is the loss of revenue over 
the entire period that is relevant. I think this is reasonable and do not consider this has made 
a difference to the settlement offered. 
F also said that the business would have been improving over the relevant periods and this 
has not been properly accounted for. I can see that Hiscox did consider if there was any 
upward trend in the business performance. Hiscox said that the trend after F reopened was 
actually negative but it did not apply this to the loss calculation. I have seen the analysis of 
sales in the months April, May, June, July and August in 2019, 2020 and 2021 respectively 
and overall the trend was -22% in 2021 compared to 2019. 
However, as Hiscox has now based the offer on the forecast revenue figures provided by F, 
which include a forecast upward trend in the business, I do not think Hiscox needs to make 
any other adjustment for trends in the business. 
F was still allowed to make online sales and so any losses in this side of the business were 
not covered. However, F says it is contradictory that Hiscox also deducted an amount from 
the settlement to reflect that it thought F had made more in online sales than it would 
normally have done, because of the closure of its premise and other stores like it. 
I dont think it is contradictory or unfair that Hiscox said it would not consider any losses to 
online sales as that part of Fs business could continue but it did go on to consider if there 
had been benefits to F when considering the loss of direct sales. Hiscox said online sales 
had previously represented 5% of total sales and during the first and second lockdown 
periods it increased by around 5 times to 25% and in the third lockdown period it went up by 
about 3.5 times.  
While a better explanation may have helped, I do not think that what Hiscox did in relation to 
this is unfair or unreasonable. I also note F does not state that it thinks the deduction made 
to reflect increased online sales was unfair or incorrect.   
Having worked out the loss of income/revenue over the indemnity period, Hiscox then 
deducted savings in costs that it says F had over the same period as a result of being 
closed. The policy term above which sets out how loss of gross profit will be calculated makes clear that Hiscox is entitled to deduct any expenses or charges which cease or are 
reduced during the period of indemnity. 
F is unhappy that Hiscox deducted the value of the furlough payments it received for staff. I 
will deal with this separately below. Hiscox also deducted savings it said F made in relation 
to general fixed costs. Ive not seen any evidence that it has made any deductions that it 
should not have done. 
F has said it has reason to doubt the process, and Hiscox has not been clear or consistent in 
its approach, given Hiscox has revised its settlement offers and changed the calculation 
methods. However, this is not unusual. Assessing such losses is not always straightforward 
but I can see Hiscox has taken account of points F raised and reassessed the losses in 
response, which I think this was reasonable. It is almost impossible to work out exactly what 
F lost as a result of having to close its premises during the three indemnity periods. 
However, having considered everything, I think Hiscoxs approach, which resulted in the 
latest offer of £10,683, was reasonable.
Furlough payments
The relevant part of Fs policy (set out above) explains how the reduction in income would be 
calculated and says the final settlement is this amount: 
Loss of gross profit 
The sum produced by applying the rate of gross profit to any reduction in income 
during the indemnity period plus increased costs or working or alternative hire costs, 
less any business expenses or charges which cease or are reduced
I think the above wording makes it clear that any charges and expenses saved during the 
indemnity period would be deducted from the claim settlement. 
The wages F paid its staff during lockdown were a charge and expense of the business. 
The furlough payments received by F therefore represent a saving on Fs wage bill and that 
in turn is a saving in the charges and expenses of the business. It doesnt seem fair to me to 
require an insurer to pay for an expense of a business for which the business has already 
been compensated from elsewhere.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
following judgment is helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company Ltd 
v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm). Thats because, 
one of the issues considered by the Court was whether payments received by a policyholder 
under the furlough scheme were to be taken into account when calculating the sums 
recoverable under the policy. The Court found that payments received by businesses for 
furlough should be taken into account when calculating any indemnity as they did diminish 
the insured loss
So, I think Hiscox was entitled under the terms of the policy to deduct the amount F received 
in respect of furlough payments from its settlement of Fs business interruption claim.
Hiscox also deducted the 20% sum of wages not covered by the furlough payments, as F 
confirmed it did not top up its employees wages during the period furlough payments were 
made. So again, this was a saving on its normal expenses and I think Hiscox was entitled to 
deduct this. Hiscox said it would reconsider this amount, if F could show it had topped up the 
furlough amount, which I think is reasonable. 
Interest and compensationF submitted the claim to Hiscox in March 2020. It was not until June 2021 that Hiscox 
accepted the claim and made a settlement offer. It made an offer of settlement in July 2021, 
which F rejected. An increased offer was made later in 2021. 
Whilst I understand the difficulties insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity 
provided by the courts in the test case has shown that F had a valid claim and that the  
decision to decline the claim in 2020 was incorrect.  I do therefore think that Hiscox should 
have paid Fs claim sooner. 
My role is to consider what a business might or might not have done wrong and to put a 
customer back in the position they would have been in had things happened as they should 
have. Because Hiscox turned down Fs claim, it was without funds that it should have had. I 
have to therefore consider what impact this had on F. 
F says it took a bounce back loan for £25,000 in November 2020, repayable over 10 years 
because Hiscox had not met the claim.
The loan was for more than the settlement due under the claim, so I do not think F was 
forced to take the total amount of the loan that it did due to Hiscoxs delay. I do accept that F 
might not have taken £25,000 and might have taken only £15,000 as a loan, if Hiscox had 
met the claim sooner. 
The rate of interest on the bounce back loan is 0% for the first year and 2.5% thereafter. 
Hiscox has already offered to pay interest on the settlement offered based on the dates that 
it could have made payment towards the claim at 8% per annum, which is our usual rate, up 
to July 2022. Hiscox has said if the claims had been accepted when first submitted, it would 
made the following payments: 
Claim 1: the first interim payment 24 May 2020, then 24 June and 15 July 2020 .
Claim 2: 2 January 2021 
Claim 3: 2 and 6 March, 6 April, 6 May and 12 May 2021.
The way Hiscox has calculated the interest is generally in line with the way we would assess 
interest and I think this was fair and reasonable. As Hiscox has already agreed to pay 
interest on the settlement due at 8%, which is more than the interest on the bounce back 
loan, I think this is enough to reimburse Fs financial loss in taking that part of the loan that it 
would likely not have done if Hiscox had paid the claims sooner.  
F is also unhappy that Hiscox has made different offers of settlement and it has not been 
clear and consistent about its assessment of the claim throughout the process. It is not 
unusual for there to be changes to offers made when dealing with a claim such as this. 
Hiscox assessed the claim and then agreed to consider other information and made 
increased offers as a result. I have not seen anything unreasonable in the way it assessed 
the claim once it was accepted. F is unhappy at some of the decisions made about the 
calculations but I have addressed this above. I do agree that there were delays and the 
process was frustrating.
Hiscox has already offered £650 compensation for the delays in meeting the claim. I can 
only make an award that recognises the impact on the eligible complainant. In this instance, 
the eligible complainant is a limited company, rather than any individual. A limited company 
cannot suffer distress or frustration and so I cant make an award in this category. I can 
make an award for inconvenience. Having considered all the circumstances, I think the 
compensation offered is reasonable and do not intend to make Hiscox pay any more.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint in part and require Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following: 
1. pay the sum of £10,683 in settlement of the claims (Hiscox has made some interim 
payments, so it only needs to pay the balance). 
2. Pay interest on the settlement amount due. Hiscox has offered to pay this at 8% 
simple per annum from when each claim payment should have been paid to the date 
of payment of each amount. I consider these dates to be as follows:  
Claim 1: the first interim payment from 24 May 2020, the second months amount 
from 24 June and the third months amount from 15 July 2020;
Claim 2: from 2 January 2021; and 
Claim 3: on the first months payment from 6 March, the second months payment 
from 6 April, the third months payment from 6 May and on the final payment from 12 
May 2021
3. Pay the sum of £650 compensation for the delays in dealing with the claim. 
If any payment has already been made in relation to 1 and 2 above, Hiscox can offset this 
against the total due and so only needs to now pay the difference between what has been 
paid and the totals due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman