DRN-3818923
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF), has unfairly turned down her claims under sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
On 2 June 2010 (the Time of Sale), Mr and Mrs M purchased a Club La Costa (CLC) 
points-based membership (the Membership). The Membership cost £18,504, which was 
funded by trading in an existing CLC membership they held for £11,995 and entering into a 
fixed sum loan agreement In Mrs Ms name for the balance.1 The loan was repaid in March 
2012. 
In July 2017, using a professional representative (PR), Mrs M made a number of claims to 
BPF. The initial letter of claim, along with the subsequent submissions made by PR, run to 
several pages. So, it is not practical to repeat them in full here, but I will provide a summary 
of the key points below.
PR alleged that Mrs M purchased the Membership having relied on misrepresentations 
made by CLC and, under s.75 CCA, BPF is jointly liable for those misrepresentations. PR 
also said that those misrepresentations, amongst other things, led to an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under s.140A CCA.
PR said that, at the Time of Sale, Mrs M was on a Prelude Week promotional holiday at a 
CLC resort in Spain, during which she attended a sales presentation.2 She was told that 
holidays were now sold through CLCs Vacation Club points system which offered more 
flexibility than the timeshare her and Mr M had bought before. She says she was offered 
various discounts and incentives to take out the Membership and she did so in order to 
secure the level of flexibility she thought she already had with the earlier membership. Mrs M 
says she travelled to Spain twice and to Bali using either CLC properties available through 
the Membership or by using an exchange programme to stay elsewhere. 
In particular, PR alleged that four things were said to Mrs M which induced her into 
contracting, which she subsequently found to be untrue. She says that, had she known they 
were untrue, she would not have taken out the Membership. So, PR argues the Membership 
was misrepresented to Mrs M. In particular, Mrs M says she was told:
she would easily be able to sell points through CLCs re-sale programme or rent 
them out if she wanted to. 
she would be able to recoup the cost paid for the Membership by selling it. She has 
since found out there was no secondary market for these products and no demand. 
She commented that one timeshare resale company told her she would be lucky to 
recoup £7,000 if she was able to sell the Membership. 
1 As the loan was in Mrs Ms sole name, I will only refer to Mrs M throughout this decision as she is 
the only person eligible to make this complaint.
2 This followed a purchase in 2009 which is being considered in a separate complaint.
that she could enjoy the same standard of accommodation she was enjoying during 
her Prelude Week and at any time during the year. However, Mrs M found this was 
not the case and the availability and choice of resorts became increasingly difficult to 
secure. She also found this to be the case when trying to book through an exchange 
programme. As an example, when Mrs M enquired with the exchange programme 
about booking a holiday to Australia, she was told she needed to book three years in 
advance to secure that type of holiday. 
the annual management fees would only increase in line with inflation. In reality the 
annual management fee increases were considerably more than that.  
In addition, Mrs M says she was told her children would benefit and she was encouraged to 
name them as members. However, she argues it is not clear how her children would benefit 
from the Membership. 
In support of the claim that there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship, and in addition to 
the alleged misrepresentations, PR has pointed to the following:
the duration of the Membership and/or the obligation to pay management fees were 
unfair under Regulation 5 of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (UTCCRs).
the practices followed by CLC were breaches of the Consumer Protection from Unfair 
Trading Regulations 2008 (CPRs). It was said that CLCs sales presentation and 
sales process included statements which were untrue about the Membership 
(detailed above) and, as CLC was acting as BPFs agent, this can be considered as 
part of the s.140A CCA assessment. In addition, the sales presentation included 
prohibited practices such as falsely stating the Membership will be available for a 
limited time which meant Mrs M did not have the time to make an informed decision 
and creating the impression that Mrs M could not leave the premises until she agreed 
to take out the Membership  essentially pressuring Mrs M into contracting. 
In addition, Mrs M said she subsequently discovered the loan had a significantly higher 
interest rate than loans offered by other lenders.
In response, BPF argued that, as the claim was made on 27 July 2017, it was more than six 
years after the Time of Sale. So, BPF explained that it thought the claims were time-barred 
under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). But BPF also treated the legal claims as complaints 
and said that Mrs M could refer the matter to our service, if she so wished.
PR disagreed. It argued that whilst a claim for misrepresentation under the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA) has a six-year limitation period, the claim under s.140A 
CCA would have a twelve-year limitation period under s.8 LA. In addition, it argued that the 
limitation period of s.140A CCA does not start until the end of the relationship, which had not 
occurred as the Membership was still in place at the time of claim. PR also argued that, 
whilst the claim for misrepresentation was made outside the relevant limitation period, these 
points could still be considered as part of a s.140A CCA claim. 
PR also raised a further concern, which was that the lending should not have been granted 
as it breached the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) Guide on irresponsible lending and the 
section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook dealing with lending, CONC.
As an agreement could not be reached a complaint was referred to our service. When PR 
referred the complaint, it included a letter setting out some of its wider concerns with the 
timeshare industry. Much of this letter was generic and was not specific to Mrs M, but PR did 
say that, under CLC timeshare memberships, there was an obligation to pay annual 
maintenance fees and many members were unaware of their abilities to give up membership.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She concluded that the misrepresentation 
claim under s.75 CCA was made more than six years after the Time of Sale and, as such, 
was raised outside of the limitation period set out in the LA. So, she did not think BPF had 
acted unfairly in declining this claim. She went on to consider whether there was an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA, and in doing so considered if any 
misrepresentations by CLC could cause unfairness.  However, on balance she was not 
persuaded that there had been any actionable misrepresentations at the Time of Sale. She 
also explained that she could not see enough to suggest that the relationship between 
Mrs M and BPF was unfair for any other reasons, so she was not persuaded a court would 
make any orders under the CCA. Finally, she also considered the arguments that BPF had 
lent irresponsibly. However, she concluded that she had not seen anything persuasive to 
suggest this was the case. So, the investigator did not uphold the complaint. 
PR, on behalf of Mrs M, disagreed with the investigators view. It argued that the claim was 
raised within three years of when Mrs M knew or ought reasonably to have known she had 
cause for complaint and so is within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. It also 
did not agree that the claim under s.140A CCA had been properly considered and asked for 
the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Following this, Mrs M and her representative confirmed that they also wished to rely on a 46 
page document produced by a barrister titled Various consumer complainants and 
Providers of Consumer Credit for Purchase of Club La Costa Vacation Club Points  Generic 
submissions on behalf of complainants (Counsels Submissions). Again, due to the length 
of this document it is not possible to repeat the contents in full, but I will provide a summary 
of the key points below which apply to this complaint and have not already been detailed 
above3:
the volume of complaints made about timeshare sales suggests there was a 
significant problem with the way they were sold and financed.
the combination of high pressure of marketing and bundling memberships with loans 
meant that the complexities of the product or the financial consequences for the 
borrower were not explained or considered properly.
the sales process was skewed towards the positives, with little consideration of the 
complexities of memberships or the borrowers long-term liability and objective value 
of memberships.  
a proper assessment of circumstances was not completed before lending. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service must consider the impact of the failure to carry out 
affordability assessments over the period of the product (not just the term of the loan) 
beyond retirement and the sustainability of the lending criteria adopted. 
CLCs options for relinquishment introduced after the Time of Sale is an 
acknowledgement that the Membership operated unfairly, but does not address the 
unfairness and breaches of guidance that took place at the Time of Sale.
BPF did not provide anything further following the investigators view.
As the parties did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for a 
decision. Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments, I provisionally 
3 As noted in the title, these submissions were generic and PR says that they apply to a number of 
different complaints. Many of these submissions do not, and cannot, apply to Mrs Ms claim, for 
example allegations that the sale breached The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010, which post-dated Mrs Ms sale. So, I have relied on this document in so 
far as it provides additional submissions on the claims Mrs M actually made.concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. But as I came to that conclusion for 
different reasons to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision and invited both parties 
to respond.
My Provisional Findings
I set out my provisional findings on the complaint, noting that in coming to those findings, I 
was required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take 
into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
I said that when I needed to make a finding of fact based on the evidence, I made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I based it on what I thought was 
more likely than not to have happened, given the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Having considered everything, I reached the following conclusions:
Mrs Ms s.75 CCA claim for misrepresentation was made too late and outside the 
relevant provisions of the LA. So I did not think it was unfair of BPF to rely on the LA 
as a full defence to this claim.
I was not persuaded it was more likely than not that Mrs M was pressured into taking 
out the Membership. I thought it was most likely she chose to take it out as she was 
interested in the package offered. 
In considering her claim under s.140A CCA, I was not persuaded the Membership 
was misrepresented to Mrs M.
I did not think the associated contract terms in relation to on-going fees, terminating/ 
suspending the Membership and fee calculation created an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship in this case. I therefore thought it was unlikely the courts would reach this 
conclusion. I had also not seen anything else which made me think the courts would 
conclude there was an unfair relationship between Mrs M and BPF.
I had seen nothing to persuade me that the loan was unaffordable for Mrs M, so I 
could not conclude it was irresponsibly lent. 
I set out why I reached those conclusions, starting with the applicable law and regulations, 
before considering each part of Mrs Ms claims in turn.
The Law
I set out a summary of the legal basis of Mrs Ms claims under the CCA. 
It was not in dispute that Mrs M took out a restricted use, regulated credit agreement with 
BPF to part fund the transaction for the Membership. For the purposes of the CCA, BPF was 
the creditor, Mrs M was the debtor and CLC was the supplier. S.75(1) CCA reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
So I said that BPF could be held jointly liable, under s.75 CCA, for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (CLC) in relation to this transaction.
Under s.140A CCA, the courts can consider if the relationship between the creditor (BPF) 
and the debtor (Mrs M) arising out of the credit agreement is unfair. S.140A CCA reads:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under 
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor
I noted that s.140C and s.19 CCA meant that the Membership is a related agreement to the 
credit agreement, as the money advanced was used to finance it. I also said that if the court 
found an unfair debtor-creditor relationship, it has wide ranging powers under s.140B CCA to 
remedy any unfairness. 
Regulatory framework 
In addition, I referred to two sets of regulations that applied to this sale: 
The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT); and
The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). 
Regulatory guidance and codes  Granting Credit  
I also considered any relevant guidance relating to affordability  specifically when granting 
credit. In particular, I considered:
Finance and Leasing Association Lending Code (June 2006);
OFT General guidance for licensees and applicants on fitness and requirements 
(January 2008);
OFT Irresponsible Lending  OFT guidance for creditors (March 2010, updated 
February 2011); and
S.25A CCA.Regulatory guidance and codes  Timeshares
I also considered the Resort Development Organisation (RDO)  Code of Conduct 
(1 January 2010), which I thought demonstrated good industry practice at the Time of Sale.
I also considered any relevant case law cited by the parties or which I felt was relevant to the 
facts in dispute in this case. 
I noted that the law and regulations I cited represented a non-exhaustive list of the key 
considerations under DISP 3.6.4 R. 
In addition, I thought it would be helpful to set out the key documents I had available which 
govern The Membership contract with CLC or loan agreement with BPF. 
MEMBERS DECLARATION Club La Costa Vacation Club (Members Declaration)
Acquisition Agreement
Memorandum and Articles of Association
Deed of Trust
Scheme Regulations 
Scheme Rules 
I explored these documents further as part of my decision. 
Limitation 
- s.75 CCA  Misrepresentation 
From the correspondence I saw, it appeared Mrs M and PR accepted that Mrs Ms claim 
under s.75 CCA was raised too late and outside the relevant limitation period. But, for the 
avoidance of doubt, I addressed this issue first. 
Mrs M said that CLC misrepresented the nature of the timeshare membership to her when 
she bought it. However, under s.2 LA (the applicable section for misrepresentation, see 
Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363), Mrs M had to make this claim 
within six years of when she entered into the Membership and took out the BPF loan. This 
was because that was when she said she lost out, having relied on false statements of fact. 
Mrs M purchased the membership at the Time of Sale (June 2010) but did not raise her 
claim under s.75 CCA until July 2017  which meant she was outside the time limits set out 
in the LA. As a result, BPF were entitled to rely on the LA as a complete defence to this 
claim. And for that reason, I could not say it acted unfairly when arguing that this claim had 
been made too late. 
I saw that PR had argued Mrs M raised her claim within three years of when she ought 
reasonably to have known she had cause to complain. However, I noted that our jurisdiction 
was a different and separate consideration to whether the claim was raised in time under the 
LA. And for the reasons explained above, I thought it was fair for BPF to rely on this defence 
in relation to the s.75 CCA claim.  
- s.140A CCA  Unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
I agreed that the claim under s.140A CCA was raised within the relevant limitation period, 
but for different reasons to those set out by Mrs M and her representatives. I briefly set out 
the relevant limitation period which I considered applied and why I thought this claim was 
raised within the limitation period set out under the LA.Mrs M and her representative argued that a claim under s.140A CCA was a claim to which 
s.8 LA applied, giving a limitation period of twelve years. They also argued that, as the 
Membership was still ongoing, the limitation period had not begun yet, as it started at the 
end of the relationship. I agreed that the limitation period started at the end of the 
relationship, but it was the debtor-creditor relationship that was in issue. So, in this instance, 
the relevant date to determine when the relationship ended was when the credit agreement 
ended (see Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB)). 
Mrs M provided a letter to show that she repaid the loan in March 2012, so it was from then 
that the limitation period started to run. Furthermore, I thought that this was a claim for 
repayment of sums paid to the loan, which was an action for sums recoverable under 
statute, to which s.9 LA applied. I did not think it was a claim for actions on a speciality, 
which meant the limitation period was six years, rather than twelve. As a result, Mrs M had 
until March 2018 to raise her claim. And, as she did so in July 2017, I thought the claim was 
raised within the relevant time period and limitation was not a defence upon which BPF 
could rely. So I went on to consider the claim under s.140A CCA.
Claims under s.140A CCA  Unfair debtor-creditor relationship  
I said that only the courts have the power to decide if a relationship is unfair under 
s.140A CCA. However, as it was relevant law, it was something I needed to take into 
consideration when deciding this case  including, in particular, whether I thought it was 
likely the courts would conclude the relationship between Mrs M and BPF was unfair. 
PR raised a number of different reasons why it alleged the relationship between Mrs M and 
BPF was unfair. I dealt with each in turn.
- Misrepresentation
Under s.140A CCA (1)(c), in determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have 
regard for any other thing done (or not done) by or on behalf of, the creditor. I thought that 
the alleged misrepresentations were, therefore, relevant here. Further, even though they 
could not be considered under s.75 CCA due to limitation, I thought they could still be 
considered under s.140A CCA (see Scotland & Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited [2014] 
EWCA Civ 790). 
I summarised that Mrs M said she was told: 
she would be able to resell her points if she wanted and recoup the cost paid;
the maintenance fees would only rise with inflation;
she would be able to enjoy the same standard of accommodation that she was 
enjoying on her Prelude Week at any time of the year; and
her children would benefit from the Membership.
I said that PR had provided limited details about these representations and Mrs Ms overall 
recollections of the sales process. I had not been provided with any statement from Mrs M 
setting out her direct memories. She had, however, indicated that she was told these things, 
so I thought about that alongside the other evidence available. Although not determinative of 
the matter, I had not seen any documentation which supported Mrs Ms assertions, like 
marketing material or documentation from the Time of Sale that echoed what she says she 
was told. 
Turning to the individual representations, I noted that the Members Declaration, said at point 4: 
We understand that Club La Costa does not and will not run any resale or rental 
programmes and will not repurchase Vacation Club Points other than as a trade in 
against future property purchases
Although I appreciated Mrs M had said she was not given time to properly consider all of the 
sales information, I noted that the Members Declaration was a single page which had been 
signed by her and Mr M. This document was provided by Mrs M, so I thought it was 
something she had the opportunity to read. Further, I thought it was presented sufficiently 
clearly at the Time of Sale and she would have most likely seen this declaration. Therefore, I 
thought that had Mrs M been told that CLC would buy back the points or that CLC ran a 
resale programme, I would have expected her to question it, as the signed declaration 
contradicted what she said she was told. 
Furthermore, Mrs M had not provided any specific detail about what was discussed about 
her resale options, such as how she would be able to do this, how the cost of her remaining 
points would be calculated, any limitations as to how many points she could sell, etc. Again, 
if that was an important consideration for her, I said that I would have expected her to have 
explained in more detail what was said to her. In particular, I had not seen any detailed 
recollections about Mrs Ms assertion that she would be able to recoup the purchase price 
on resale. In any event, I noted that such a statement would be in direct conflict with point 6 
of the Members Declaration that reads:
We understand thatCLC makes no representation as to the future price or value of 
the Vacation Club Holiday product.
I went on to consider Mrs Ms comments that she was told the maintenance fee increases 
were capped in line with inflation. On the issue of the management charges, the Members 
Declaration read, at point 3:
We understand that currently the annual Membership Fee is EURO 252.11 for 
2010The basis for these dues is set out in the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association together with the Scheme Rules and Regulations of the Company.4
Nowhere in the documentation provided did it say that the fees and charges associated with 
the Membership were somehow pegged to inflation. Further, I did not think the alleged 
misrepresentation had been described in enough detail to succeed. For example, Mrs M did 
not say what rate of inflation she thought applied. Again, I thought Mrs M would have 
questioned why such a claim about the fees was not set out in the sales documentation, if it 
was important to her. 
I went on to say that, even if I accepted that Mrs M was told that the fees and charges were 
only to rise with inflation, PR had not provided full details of the payments Mrs M had made 
over time, explaining why it said the amounts invoiced did increase above inflation. So I 
could not say this alleged representation was untrue in any event.
I also considered Mrs Ms comments about the standard and availability of the 
accommodation. However, I questioned how plausible these statements would have been if 
made. I noted that a holiday company is unlikely to be able to guarantee a certain level of 
availability, as peak times and popular destinations would likely sell out first, making all 
holidays subject to availability. But even if I accepted that there was a representation made 
4 None of the scheme rules or regulations say that the charges associated with the Membership were 
pegged to inflation or any other measureabout the availably and quality of holidays, I had not seen any evidence from Mrs M that she 
was unable to book holidays with CLC or that the holidays she went on were not of the same 
quality as she had seen at the Time of Sale.
Finally, Mrs M said she was told that her children would benefit from the Membership. I 
again thought that there was little detail about what was meant by this statement. It was 
clear from the key documents setting out the Membership contract that membership ends on 
the death of the member (I explored this in more detail elsewhere in my decision), so 
Mrs Ms children could not inherit the Membership. My understanding was that they could go 
on holidays with their parents and so benefit in this way. But without specific detail about 
what was said, it was difficult to find Mrs Ms testimony on this persuasive or conclude that 
this had been misrepresented to her and induced her into contracting. 
So, taking everything into consideration, I was not persuaded Mrs M was misled on the 
alleged representations. As I explained, I thought her testimony lacked persuasive detail and 
was not supported by the available point of sale documentation (in fact the documentation at 
times contradicted Mrs Ms memories). So, I thought it was unlikely a court would conclude 
that these allegations created an unfair relationship between BPF and Mrs M, due to the 
alleged misrepresentations. 
I noted the comments made in the Counsels Submissions that there should be 
consideration that many customers have given similar accounts of representations they were 
told. However, I explained that I had to be persuaded that the representations were made in 
the individual complaint I was considering and, for the reasons I explained, I was not 
persuaded they were. 
- Pressured sale 
PR set out in its letter of claim, several allegations that Mrs M was pressured into 
contracting. Additionally, I noted that a number of points were made in the Counsels 
Submissions on allegations of pressure. However, these were generic points and not 
specific to Mrs Ms recollections of the sale, so I did not think they offered much help in 
making factual findings of pressure in Mrs Ms case. 
If I agreed that Mrs M was pressured into taking out the Membership, I thought it was 
possible a court would conclude this created an unfair relationship between Mrs M and BPF. 
However, to make this finding, I had to be persuaded it was more likely than not that this was 
the case. Specifically, that Mrs M was not given a real choice in taking the Membership and 
she agreed to buy it when she otherwise did not want to.
I considered Regulation 7 of the CPRs when thinking about this allegation. To find that a 
sales presentation was an aggressive commercial practice, it must have significantly 
impaired the average consumers freedom of choice using harassment, coercion, or undue 
influence such as to cause the consumer to buy something they otherwise would not have 
done.
Turning to Mrs Ms specific memories, I was mindful that she had provided limited details 
about the sales process that took place. She alleged that she was effectively given no 
choice. But she had not provided any details about what was said and why she felt this way. 
I did note that she said she was given several inducements or freebies in order to contract. 
This would have effectively made the cost and package of benefits offered more favourable 
to Mrs M and so there was an argument that, as the package became more attractive to her, 
she chose to contract. I also thought it was relevant that Mr and Mrs M had already taken out 
memberships with CLC before, so I thought they were interested in this type of product. I considered the information available about how CLC sold its timeshare products, as set out 
more fully in PRs claims and Counsels Submissions. I thought it was fair to say that the 
benefits of the products were highlighted, any negatives not discussed at length and the 
sales representatives were encouraged to secure a sale on the day. From what I knew about 
how these sales took place, I thought it was likely that sales staff were also trained on 
overcoming the key objections a customer might make. But I thought there was a difference 
between a hard sell and a pressured sale.
Finally, I considered the cancellation terms of the Membership. Mrs Ms credit agreement 
detailed that she had fourteen days to withdraw from the loan agreement, thereby cancelling 
the loan. Mrs M also had a fourteen-day cooling off period to cancel the Membership 
agreement. And although PR raised generic points about customers not being given sales 
documentation to take away with them, that was not something that had been raised on this 
occasion. In fact Mrs M supplied the documentation from the Time of Sale when making her 
claim. These documents were signed by Mrs M and I thought they contained clear 
information about her right to cancel within fourteen days. I accepted, as had been argued 
by PR, that this did not automatically mean a consumer was given a reasonable opportunity 
to exercise choice. However, Mrs M did not exercise her right to end the Membership during 
the statutory cooling off period and it was not until sometime later  over five years  that 
she raised concerns that she had been pressured into contracting. 
I noted the comments in Counsels Submissions relating to loans and memberships being 
bundled into one sale. But I did not agree that taking the Membership and a loan at the same 
time would have taken away Mrs Ms free choice to take out either the Membership or the 
loan. I accepted that some customers were unlikely to have a full understanding of the 
Membership terms as they were set across several documents (I considered this issue at 
length later in my decision). But I thought Mrs M had enough basic information about the 
Membership to decide if she wanted it and, again, I did not see how this forced Mrs M into 
taking a membership she did not want. 
Taking everything into consideration, I was not persuaded Mrs M was pressured into 
contracting or by Mrs Ms testimony. I also accepted that in some instances there could be 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship caused by lower levels of pressure that did not amount 
to a breach of the CPRs. But here, I did not think it likely a court would find an unfair 
relationship. I thought it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M took out the Membership 
as they were interested in the product and the holidays it provided.  
- Exiting the Membership and obligation to pay ongoing fees 
A number of points were raised by PR about the duration of the Membership and the 
ongoing obligation to pay maintenance fees. Specifically, that memberships lasted for a 
substantial period of time, with end dates likely to be well past the death of the member, and 
that liability for maintenance fees continued throughout, unless the buyer was able to exit. 
This was said to be a particular problem, given the way fees were calculated and charged (I 
also considered these concerns in my provisional decision). PR argued that these problems 
created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mrs M and BPF. In summary, it was 
argued that:
Article 7.2 of the Articles of Association allowed a member to withdraw from the 
membership subject to full payment of membership fees and management charges 
due in the current year. However, PR argued this should be ignored when 
considering the fairness/reasonableness of the initial transaction as CLC did not 
publicise it and it did not help a member in financial difficulties. 
Article 12.5 imposed a liability for interest and legal costs in connection with the 
recovery of all sums outstanding by the member. However, there was no limitation on the sums recoverable, so even a small outstanding fee could invoke this term and 
lead to substantial costs that were not proportionate to the outstanding balance.
CLC had the power of forfeiture (to take back the Membership if there were funds 
outstanding) under Clause D of the Acquisition Agreement and the High Court had 
previously ruled this term was unfair. 
Article 12 of the Articles of Association included similar forfeiture powers which would 
also likely be deemed unfair by the court. 
I said it was important to consider the documentation that governed how the Membership 
operated in practice, to determine how Mrs M could have exited the contract, how any 
ongoing fee liabilities would have impacted on this and whether any of the relevant terms 
could cause an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
I noted that the various ways a membership could end (outside the fourteen-day cooling off 
period) were set out in a number of different places across the different membership 
documents. I had been provided with the Membership documentation applicable from 
October 2010 onwards and the updated versions in December 2015. However, despite 
alleging that the terms were unfair, I noted that PR had not been able to provide the full 
terms which were applicable when Mrs M contracted at the Time of Sale. But in the absence 
of having those terms available, I relied on the October 2010 terms and the updated versions 
in December 2015 to consider the arguments raised. I did so because the October 2010 
terms were produced around four months after Mrs M took out the Membership and PR had 
not pointed me to any specific terms to consider from the earlier, unavailable documents. 
Both the 2010 and 2015 versions of these documents spanned over 40 pages and I thought 
they were not easy to understand. It seemed unlikely to me that the full effect of the terms 
applicable at the Time of Sale would have been clear to Mrs M when she took out the 
Membership. However, as the two sets of terms were applicable to the Membership, it was 
important to consider whether they could have led to an unfairness. 
Turning first to the Articles of Association (October 2010), Article 43 addressed the 
Dissolution of Membership:
43.1 The Association shall continue in existence until either:
(a) the year 2078 when a Special Resolution shall be voted on to continue the 
Associations existence for a further term of 80 years (and following that 
successive terms of 80 years) and unless a Resolution is passed (the 
Founder Member and any of its associated companies agreeing not to 
exercise its vote) the Association shall be wound up; or 
(b) a Special Resolution is passed to wind up the Association.
Based on this, there was a potential that Mrs Ms membership could end in 2078 (around 68 
years after she took out the Membership) following a vote from a Special Resolution. 
However, given Mrs M was in her late forties at the Time of the Sale, it seemed unlikely this 
would offer any practical assistance to her. In addition, the intention of this Article was to 
address winding up the Association as a whole rather than an individual member being 
able to wind up their own membership. So, I did not think this helped when determining how 
Mrs M could end her individual membership. 
Article 43 was updated in December 2015 so that in 2048 an Ordinary Resolution will be 
required to extend the Associations existence for a further term of 50 years (rather than the 
80 previously). Although this would mean the Resolution would need to occur sooner, for the 
reasons I gave before, I did not think this was a term that assisted an individual member in ending their membership in any practical way. So, I did not think this helped answer the 
question as to whether or not the exit terms and requirements to pay fees made the 
underlying relationship between Mrs M and BPF unfair. 
Article 12 addressed what happened when a member had fees outstanding. As explained 
above, Mrs M argued that the duration of the Membership and obligation to pay 
management charges were unfair under Regulation 5 of the UTCCRs. So, I thought it was 
important to explore what could happen when a member failed to pay charges as they 
became due. 
Article 12 under the October 2010 terms read:
12.1 Each Member shall be deemed to have assigned to the Association by way of 
security all his rights to and arising out of his Point Rights for the due and punctual 
performance by him of his obligations under these Articles.
12.2 Should any debt due from a Member to the Association be due and payable but 
unpaid despite demand for payment, the Association shall be entitled to exercise all 
rights pertaining to the Members Point Rights to the extent necessary to recover 
such debt. More particularly, should a Member:
12.2.1 fail to pay any amount owing to the Association within twenty-eight 
days following the issue of a notice of demand by the Association to the 
Member to pay such amount; or
12.2.2 be in breach of any of his obligations where such breach is capable of 
being remedied and fail to remedy the same within twenty-one days following 
the issue of a notice of demand by the Association to the Member requiring 
him to remedy the breach; or
12.2.3 be in breach of any of his obligations, which breach is not capable of 
being remedied either within the period of notice contemplated above or at all; 
or
12.2.4 being a company, or other corporate body, be wound up or cease to 
trade or be unable to pay its debts as and when they fall due, or should a 
receiver, administrator or manager be appointed in respect of some or all of 
the undertakings of the Member; or
12.2.5 being an individual, go into bankruptcy, enter into any arrangement 
with his creditors or have a receiver or trustee appointed over some or all of 
his assets or become subject to any other form of insolvency proceedings; 
then the Association or Management Company on the Associations behalf 
shall be entitled, without prejudice to any other rights which it may have and 
subject only to any rights of the Vendor Company in terms of an Acquisition 
Agreement:
12.2.6 to declare all amounts owing by the Member to the Association, 
whether then due and payable or not, as being immediately due and payable 
and the Member shall in such event be liable to make immediate payment of 
such amounts; and/or
12.2.7 to obtain possession of the Point Rights Certificate from such Member 
and to remove his name as registered holder of Point Rights from the Point Rights Register in which case the provisions of Article 7.1 shall apply [under 
Article 7.1 a member ceases to be a member  see below], provided that, 
should a Member fail or refuse to deliver the Point Rights Certificate, the 
Association or Management Company on its behalf shall be entitled to cancel 
the Certificate and to issue a new Certificate in replacement thereof; and/or 
12.2.8 as agent for and on behalf of the Member, without being under an 
obligation to do so, to rent or let Scheme Accommodation during any relevant 
Time Module by redeeming the Members Points for Occupancy Rights, and 
to collect all rental and monies payable under such rent or letting and to set 
off against or deduct from such monies any sums whatsoever that may be 
owed by the Member to the Association; and/or
12.2.9 to cancel or sell or dispose of or realise in any other manner and on 
such terms and conditions as the Board may in its discretion deem fit, the 
Members Point Rights
Under these terms CLC had extensive powers to make any outstanding debts immediately 
payable, remove a members points and take away their membership altogether. There were 
also no real limits on when CLC could exercise these powers. For example, any amount 
outstanding, no matter how small, could allow CLC to take these steps. 
However, CLC updated a number of its terms in December 2015. At this time Article 12.2.7 
of the Articles of Association was updated to the following:   
12.2.7 to obtain possession of the Point Rights Certificate from such Member and 
to remove his name as registered holder of Point Rights from the Point Rights 
Register in which case the provisions of Article 7.1 shall apply and from then on the 
Member is designated as Suspended and the Membership Register noted 
accordingly until such times as the Member is reinstated to active status by 
following all of the reinstatement procedures set out in the Scheme Regulations, 
provided that, should a Member fail or refuse to deliver the Point Rights Certificate, 
the Association or Management Company on its behalf shall be entitled to cancel 
the Certificate and to issue a new Certificate in replacement thereof; and/or
These changes introduced the concept of membership suspension (rather than having 
membership removed altogether). Various other governing documents were also updated in 
light of this to reflect a membership suspension. 
The Scheme Regulations in relation to reinstatement were amended in December 2015 to 
the following: 
8. PROCEDURES FOR REINSTATEMENT 
The Association (or the Management Company on its behalf) acknowledges that 
there can be various reasons why a Member was unable to comply with the 
Management Charges payment obligations and therefore agrees to keep the status 
of the Member in suspense for an indefinite period from the date of default during 
which period the Member may apply to be reinstated to active status to be able to 
use Point Rights again subject to and provided that the Member: 
(a) makes good immediately the sum of arrears and any reinstatement fees as apply 
at that time outstanding on his account; 
(b) agrees to continue to be bound by the Articles; 
(c) agrees to pay Management Charges from the date of reinstatement onwards; 
(e) acknowledges that the Association (or the Management Company on its behalf) 
was under a duty to the other Members, who are paying Management Charges, to 
use the Point Rights which used to be available for the Member as described 
previously above and confirms that the Member has no claims in respect of this.
Article 4 of the Articles of Association was also updated to the following: 
4. MEMBERSHIP / MEMBERSHIP REGISTER / MEMBERSHIP CERTIFICATES 
4.4 Should a Member be suspended by the Board (Suspended) the Membership 
Register shall be noted accordingly and the Member shall cease to be entitled to use 
or cast votes in respect of Point Rights, until such a future date as he is reinstated in 
accordance with the procedures on reinstatement in the Scheme Regulations, 
provided that any continuing or other obligation including to the Association arising 
prior to such person entering into suspension as a Member, shall continue to bind the 
Member until such obligation is Extinguished.
Following these changes, a member could now be suspended rather than have their 
membership ended entirely for non-payment of fees (such as maintenance fees). And having 
considered these terms, I thought they meant that a members liability to pay fees and 
charges was up to the point of suspension and fees did not continue to accrue during 
suspension.5  
I thought it was likely that the aim of introducing these changes and the concept of 
suspension was because the previous terms could operate in a very restrictive, and 
potentially unfair, way (see Link Financial Limited v. Wilson [2014] EWHC 252 (CH) in which 
the court dealt with similar forfeiture terms and is considered further below). If fees continued 
to accrue during the suspension period, then that would do little to alleviate any potential 
unfairness. In addition, the revised Regulation 8 acknowledged that inability to pay the fees 
was the reason why suspension of membership was introduced. If fees continued to accrue 
during the suspension period, then all this would do would be to exacerbate a members 
inability to pay. To me that did not appear to be the intention of the terms. Furthermore, I 
thought that Article 4.4. distinguishes that obligations arising prior to such person entering 
suspension as a Member remain binding on them. If additional liabilities accrued during the 
suspension period, then I did not see why the terms would expressly refer to the obligations 
prior to suspension.
So, to summarise, I thought the December 2015 updates did mitigate the potentially unfair 
provisions under 12.1 and 12.2 of the October 2010 Articles of Association. And as fees did 
not continue to accrue, I thought it was unlikely that a court would consider the application of 
the December 2015 suspension terms created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship in this 
case. 
I noted the comments in the Counsels Submissions regarding Clause D of Mrs Ms 
Acquisition Agreement. Clause D stated:
In the event of the Applicant failing to make any payment due within 14 days of 
being given written notice to that effect by the Vendor Company or on its behalf, the 
Vendor Company may, at the Vendor Company's option, rescind this Agreement 
whereupon all monies paid by the Applicant will be forfeited to the Vendor Company 
and the Vendor Company shall be under no further liability to the Applicant
5 I understood that this was also CLCs interpretation of the terms.It was argued in the Counsel Submissions that this term was held to be unfair in Link 
Financial Limited v. North6. In that judgment, the court considered Clause D and held it was 
drafted widely enough to include any payment due under the agreement, including ongoing 
fees, and not simply the cost of joining. In that case, the CLC member had their membership 
forfeited for non-payment for fees and charges, Clause D being one of the provisions that 
allowed for this. So, it was held that this term, and how it was applied in that instance, 
created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.   
I considered the implications of that judgment in this case, and I accepted that Mrs Ms 
Acquisition Agreement included the same term. However, I did not think that alone allowed 
me to reach the conclusion that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair. I said that the 
presence of an unfair (or potentially unfair) term alone is unlikely to mean the courts would 
conclude this created an unfair relationship. As highlighted in that judgment, a factor to 
consider is how the clause operated in practice. And in this case I had not seen, nor was it 
alleged, that this term was applied or operated unfairly against Mrs M. So, I thought it was 
unlikely the courts would say it created an unfair relationship between Mrs M and BPF. In 
addition, I thought that the change to the contractual terms in December 2015 to introduce 
suspension of membership for non-payment of fees was relevant. CLC confirmed that it 
would apply the December 2015 terms and apply suspension in the circumstances of a 
members non-payment. So, I could not see how the courts would conclude the presence of 
Clause D, which had not been applied (and would not be based on CLCs updated terms 
and representations), would create an unfair relationship in this case.
The final provision relevant to ending The Membership is Article 7 Cessation of Membership:
7.1 A Member shall cease to be a Member:
7.1.1 when he ceases to be the registered holder of Point Rights in the Point 
Rights Register; or
7.1.2 on his death.
7.2 A Member may at any time within the current year withdraw from the Association 
provided the Member both gives written notice before 1st September of that year to 
the Association and pays all Membership Fees and Management Charges due 
including those for the current year.
7.4 Upon the Member ceasing to be a Member, neither he nor any of his successors, 
executors, personal representatives, trustees or liquidators shall, have any claim 
upon or interest in or rights to the funds or other property of the Association.
7.5 The Association shall be entitled to claim from any Member or his estate any 
Management Charges and other sums due from him, together with Interest from the 
date upon which such amounts are due and payable until the date of payment in 
full.7
It was clear from Article 7.1.2 that membership ends upon death. Again, much like Article 43, 
this also offered little practical help to a member who actively wished to end their 
membership prior to this. 
6 I assumed this reference was actually to Link Financial Limited v. Wilson [2014] EWHC 252 (CH) as 
the Defendant in that case was called North Wilson. I invited PR to refer me to a different judgment if 
I was wrong about that, but I was given no such referral.
7 Taken from the October 2010 terms. The December 2015 included a minor variation in phrasing to Article 7.1.1. Under Article 7.2 a member could give notice to terminate The Membership. Article 7.2  
required payment of all Membership Fees and Management Charges including those in the 
current year. However, it was not expressly clear if that needed to precede the termination of 
membership. I thought it could be read as saying that the Member was liable to pay the 
outstanding fees and charges after they had given notice and terminated their membership. 
Article 7.5 envisioned that scenario occurring, as it allowed CLC to pursue fees and charges 
from the member or the members estate. So, it could be concluded that payment of the fees 
and charges was not conditional on giving notice and being able to terminate The 
Membership.
However, CLC said that it required the membership fees in the year of terminating to be paid 
as a prerequisite to ending the Membership (together with giving notice). I accepted CLCs 
interpretation of the terms was possible, as the terms were not clear as to whether or not the 
payment of fees and charges was a pre-requisite to terminating the Membership.
I thought that, in practical terms, it was clear that fees did not continue to accrue, as in the 
event of non-payment the Membership was suspended indefinitely. But if that happened to 
Mrs M, she would have the option to leave the Membership dormant and reinstate it in the 
future should she wish to start using it again. Or to give notice and terminate the 
Membership. In both instances, she needed to pay the applicable fees for the year of 
termination or reactivation. That gave Mrs M options, as she could also simply pay nothing 
and leave open the option of reinstating the Membership at a future date. I thought this 
clearly made suspension a more favourable option to terminating the Membership, so I 
thought it was unlikely the courts would consider this created an unfair relationship between 
Mrs M and BPF  most crucially because she was not locked into a membership with fees 
continuing to accrue and compound an outstanding balance. Mrs M could pay nothing and 
leave the Membership dormant.  
I considered the argument that Article 7.2 should be ignored when considering the fairness 
or reasonableness of the initial transaction, as it was not publicised by CLC. I thought that 
not only would taking this approach significantly limit the terms applicable to the 
Membership, but I did not agree it was a sensible approach to take. Article 7.2 applied to 
Mrs Ms contract and, taking it alongside the rest of the terms, I thought it was unlikely a 
court would conclude it created an unfair relationship between Mrs M and BPF. 
Finally, I considered the arguments raised in relation to Article 12.5. Specifically, that the 
member could be liable for interest and legal costs in connection with recovery of sums 
outstanding and that there was no limit on the amounts that could be charged. Whilst it was 
possible that this could create an unfair relationship in some circumstances, I could not see 
that it did in those of this case. Mrs M had not provided any evidence to show she had been 
asked to pay anything following this term and, as explained above, CLC said it would 
suspend a membership for non-payment, suggesting it would not take active steps to pursue 
a debt if outstanding. 
- Calculation of fees 
I considered all the arguments, set out in some detail in the Counsels Submissions, in 
relation to challenging the calculation of maintenance fees, the requirement for a reserve 
fund and shortfalls in maintenance fees from a previous year being recovered in a 
subsequent year. I agreed there may be circumstances in which the operation of these terms 
could breach the UTCCRs and go on to create an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
However, I had seen nothing to suggest they had so in the circumstances of the case I was 
considering. Further, I did not think Mrs M was told that the increase in fees was somehow 
pegged to inflation (or even that there was sufficient evidence that they did increase above 
an inflationary measure or in any other way that was unfair). So, if a court was considering the same facts, I did not think it would conclude the presence of these terms alone would 
create an unfair relationship between Mrs M and BPF. 
Ultimately, if Mrs M found that she was unable to pay the fees and charges asked of her, I 
said she could exit or suspend her membership in the ways set out above. She would not 
have got back any of the upfront costs of taking out the Membership, but importantly, the 
fee paid by Mr and Mrs M when they took out the Membership was effectively a joining fee. I 
did not think they were under the impression that it had any intrinsic value and the 
expectation was that it would be lost if they withdrew. So, I could not see this led to any 
unfairness in the circumstances of this particular case.
- Other arguments why there could be an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
I noted PR said the interest rate being offered on this loan was higher than other lenders. 
Whilst that may have been the case, I thought the interest charged was made clear on the 
loan agreement, which Mrs M signed. So it would have been for her to decide if she still 
wanted the loan at the level of interest offered. So, in the circumstances of this case, I could 
not see how this could lead to an unfairness under s.140A CCA.
BPFs lending decision 
PR said that there were breaches of the OFTs guide to irresponsible lending (it also pointed 
to the FCA Handbook, but that did not cover this type of lending at the Time of Sale). It 
argued that BPF did not complete proper checks before agreeing to lend. I had limited 
information about what checks were completed when Mrs Ms loan was agreed. So, I 
accepted that proper checks may not have been completed.
However, to uphold this aspect of Mrs Ms complaint I explained that I would still need to be 
satisfied that the loan was unaffordable for her and that, had proper checks been completed, 
they would have uncovered this.  Mrs M and PR had not provided any evidence to support 
the allegations that the loan was unaffordable for her. So I could not conclude the loan was 
granted irresponsibly to Mrs M. 
It was also important to highlight that an irresponsible lending complaint could be considered 
under a s.140A CCA claim. If the lending were unaffordable, I thought it was possible a court 
could conclude that gave rise to an unfair relationship. However, I had no information about 
Mrs Ms actual position at the time, so I could not conclude the loan was unaffordable for 
her.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
BPF responded to my provisional decision, but it didnt ask me to consider anything further 
before I issued a final decision.
PR responded on behalf of Mrs M. It provided some more of Mrs Ms recollections. It was 
said that the only reasons she and her husband took out membership in 2009 was to be able 
to defer a holiday from one year and then use it for a longer holiday the following year or for 
more family members to join, and they felt the membership offered flexibility. When they 
eventually took out the Membership that was financed by the loan that is the subject matter 
of this complaint, they felt they had no option but to take it out as they were told the original 
membership they had would no longer given them the benefits they wanted. Mrs M 
explained that she was upset at the Time of Sale, but she did not cancel the Membership 
within the fourteen-day cancellation period as she and her husband felt committed to sticking 
with the Membership to get the holidays they wanted.What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Again, I wish to make clear that in coming to my final decision, I am required by DISP 3.6.4R 
of the FCA Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
When I need to make a finding of fact based on the evidence, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, I base it on what I think was more likely than not to 
have happened, given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I note that PR has not provided any submissions or disagreement on my findings on the 
issues of exiting the Membership, the obligation to pay ongoing fees, the calculation of those 
fees or BPFs decision to lend. So in absence of anything further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings on those issues.
I have considered Mrs Ms further recollections and I think they are most closely related to 
the issues I considered in respect of allegations of misrepresentation and a pressured sale, 
set out above at pages 7 to 10. Having considered what Mrs M has said, I do not depart from 
my earlier findings. I have seen the concerns that Mrs M has raised about what she was told 
at the Time of Sale, but she has also said she was aware of the fourteen-day cancellation 
period, but chose not to cancel. On balance, I still think it is more likely that not that Mrs M 
chose to take out the Membership for the package of benefits offered and I do not think she 
was induced to purchase the Membership due to any misrepresentations or due to a 
pressured sale.
Having considered everything, I have reached the following conclusions:
Mrs Ms s.75 CCA claim for misrepresentation was made too late and outside the 
relevant provisions of the LA. So I do not think it was unfair of BPF to rely on the LA 
as a full defence to this claim.
I am not persuaded it was more likely than not that Mrs M was pressured into taking 
out the Membership. I think it was most likely she chose to take it out as she was 
interested in the package offered. 
In considering her claim under s.140A CCA, I am not persuaded the Membership 
was misrepresented to Mrs M.
I do not think the associated contract terms in relation to on-going fees, terminating/ 
suspending the Membership and fee calculation created an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship in this case. I therefore think it is unlikely the courts would reach this 
conclusion. I have also not seen anything else which made me think the courts would 
conclude there was an unfair relationship between Mrs M and BPF.
I have seen nothing to persuade me that the loan was unaffordable for Mrs M, so I 
cannot conclude it was irresponsibly lent. My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman