DRN-2677583
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold a Premier Vantage Account (PVA) by Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds) in July 2012.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons.
Mr D had previously had a fee free account, and on one occasion declined a PVA upgrade, 
so in July 2012, I think its more likely than not that he knew he had a choice and chose to 
take the PVA out.
The PVA was suitable for Mr D as from what he says about his circumstances at the time he 
could use all the key benefits of the product if he wished to.
So, the key issue is whether Lloyds provided him with the correct information about the PVA.
Mr D says Lloyds told him that the car breakdown service and the mobile phone insurance 
covered his family as well as himself. Lloyds says it didnt tell him this and says it provided 
an accurate verbal and written description of the PVA.
As there are two opposing views of the information provided, I can only look at what other 
evidence there is of what took place. Lloyds has provided a copy of a form that Mr D has 
signed to say that he has received the welcome pack which accurately described the 
product. 
And Lloyds has provided a record of its discussion with him where the advisor says she has 
explained all the key costs and benefits to him.
So, based on this, while I dont doubt Mr Ds honest recollections, in my view its more likely 
than not that his memory is mistaken, and Mr D did receive the correct information about the 
PVA. And Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the PVA.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman