DRN-3823141
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled escape of 
water claims made under his Property Owners Policy.
Any references to Aviva in this decision include its appointed agents and any references to 
Mr Y include his representative.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr Y was made aware of damage to a property he rented out, following an 
issue with a foul water sewage pipe which serviced the property, so he contacted his insurer, 
Aviva. Aviva started investigating the problem  but following investigations it said it couldnt 
do anything straight away as the issue appeared to be with the mains pipe. It said the 
supplier was responsible for this, so Mr Y contacted his mains water supplier.
The supplier, however, said there were issues for the insurer to sort out as there were also 
defects to the private sections of pipework. Mr Y was unhappy about how his insurer had 
handled things and about the incorrect information given, so he made a complaint. He said 
the delays in Aviva carrying out repairs had caused him financial loss as he hadnt been able 
to rent out his flat for over a year and a half.
Aviva said in its final response letter dated 25 February 2021 that it had carried out a full 
investigation and that the source of the damage was from both neighbouring properties, and 
that the neighbours would need to organise repairs of the leaks first, before restoration work 
could commence at Mr Ys property. It also said loss of rent wasnt covered as the cause of 
the problem wasnt an insured event (i.e. it was a non-insurance related incident at the 
neighbouring properties which had caused the damage).
It did, however, accept that when the toilet was removed from Mr Ys property during site 
investigations, there was a delay in its agents returning to reinstate the toilet. For this issue, 
Aviva offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. It also agreed to pay pest 
control fees and Mr Ys representatives fees up until the date of the final response letter, as 
it accepted that its claims department hadnt sufficiently explained what was covered by the 
policy regarding professional fees.
Mr Y raised further complaints, including a complaint about the way Avivas loss adjuster had 
handled the matter and the customer service provided. Aviva responded to this complaint 
offering an apology for any distress and inconvenience caused. A further final response was 
issued on 15 March 2021 which confirmed that the loss adjuster had responded directly to 
the complaint and Aviva had nothing further to add.
Mr Y didnt agree with Avivas final responses, saying among other things that the delays 
had been unreasonable, had caused a rat infestation in the bathroom and significant 
distress. So he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and said he could only consider issues up until the 
date of Avivas final response letter. And he thought the £100 compensation Aviva had 
offered Mr Y was fair in the circumstances of the complaint, for events up until that date.
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has now come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to determine whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms 
of the policy, given the information it had available at the time. And I can only consider 
events up to the date of Avivas most recent final response letter. So Ive not been able to 
consider any events which took place after 15 March 2021 as this is the date of the last final 
response letter I have seen.
Ive considered the reports following the initial site visits, which set out the findings of Avivas 
contractors investigations. These say the claim arose due to an escape of water from 
neighbouring properties. A drainage report was also obtained highlighting the findings from a 
CCTV survey. This confirmed there were defects on both the mains water pipework and the 
private sections of pipework. So I agree with Mr Y that he was given incorrect information 
when Aviva said the only issue was one for the mains water provider to rectify.
Ive seen evidence showing the mains water supplier accepted liability for a misplaced joint 
on its section of the pipework, and its investigations highlighted some further defects on the 
private pipework. So it said it would arrange to rectify its pipe defect while the rest would be 
for the insurer to sort out. Mr Y says the fact that defects were found on the private section of 
pipework highlights Avivas contractors incompetence, as it directly contradicts Avivas 
agents report of November 2020. Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Aviva to rely 
on its agents report, even if this proved to be incorrect. And Ive seen nothing which I think 
shouldve made Aviva question the accuracy of that report or the information contained 
within it. The report is sufficiently detailed and supported by photographs and survey results. 
It also recommends further investigations and contains updates following further site visits. 
All in all, Im not persuaded that the errors that were made by Aviva or its contractors were 
entirely avoidable and  at least up until March 2021  I dont consider any further 
compensation is warranted. It may be that further compensation is warranted for delays after 
that date, however.
Ive considered carefully what Mr Y has said about the rat infestation that was caused by the 
delays in carrying out remedial work. The pest control work was completed in April 2021 and 
I can see from Avivas internal emails that payment for the pest control work was requested 
urgently  following which remedial work to rectify the bathroom could be carried out. 
However, as Ive mentioned, whilst I have considered what happened up until March 2021, I 
cannot consider as part of my decision anything beyond this date, as to my knowledge Aviva 
has not issued a valid final response letter which would cover the period from March 2021 
onwards. I recognise that will be frustrating for Mr Y, but it also means that matters following 
that date can be considered afresh by both Aviva and by this service, if Mr Y chooses to 
bring a further complaint to us about any of the ongoing delays or the handling of the claim 
from that point onwards.
So based on the information Im able to consider, I think Avivas offer of £100 for the issues 
with the remedial work in the bathroom and how it handled the claim in general up until 
March 2021 is fair and reasonable. But I think Aviva needs to properly respond to Mr Ys complaint points following this date, with a new final response letter. I say this because its 
clear there are valid complaint points which have arisen since the date of Avivas last final 
response, which have not been adequately addressed by Aviva. Instead Aviva has 
repeatedly referred Mr Y back to its original final response letter of February 2021, which is 
unhelpful.
Once Aviva issues a new final response about its handling of the claim from March 2021 
onwards, Mr Y may bring his complaint to this service if he remains dissatisfied, but he must 
do so within a reasonable timeframe and subject to the usual time limits. In this case, we did 
not hear from Mr Y between May 2021 and August 2022 and this meant matters could not 
be dealt with as swiftly as we would like. There was a considerable amount of information 
provided by both parties, which was reviewed but which we couldnt consider, due to the fact 
that we cant consider any issues which post-date the final response. 
I should point out that although I am not upholding this complaint, this is only because of the 
aforementioned limitations on my remit. Further errors may have been made and poor 
service received that Mr Y has not yet been compensated for. Aviva should consider what 
further compensation it is willing to offer Mr Y for the errors and delays that have taken place 
in dealing with this claim, from March 2021 to date. It should also consider a suitable level of 
compensation for the prolonged distress and inconvenience Mr Y says he has experienced 
due to its delays, which meant Mr Y was unable to rent out his flat sooner.
I appreciate Mr Ys comments that Avivas emails and the loss adjusters correspondence 
should be considered final letters  but a final response must meet certain requirements and 
must give a customer six months to refer a case to the ombudsman. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr Y, as Im aware he wants me to consider everything thats 
happened as part of this complaint, which I cannot do. But provided he refers a new 
complaint to Aviva for any errors and delays that have taken place since 15 March 2021, and 
he refers that complaint to us within a reasonable timeframe, we will ensure we deal with 
that complaint as a priority. This will include looking again at Mr Ys representatives fees if 
these are covered by the policy, as well as looking at the issue of loss of rent subject to 
policy conditions and any compensation for distress and inconvenience from March 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman