DRN-2170482
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. declined his claim against his travel insurance policy. Reference to Mapfre includes 
reference to its agents. 
What happened
In September 2017, Mr M took out a travel insurance policy with Mapfre in relation to a trip in 
the UK which had departure and return dates of 2 October 2017 and 10 October 2017 
respectively. 
On 4 October 2017, Mr M suffered injuries whilst cycling on the trip. He completed the cycle 
ride. In mid-October 2017, Mr M attended A&E near his home in relation to injury to his left 
hand, back and left elbow. 
In the early part of 2018, Mr M made a claim against the personal accident part of his travel 
policy. Reports were sought from a consultant neurologist, a clinical psychologist and a 
consultant orthopaedic surgeon.
In November 2019, Mapfre declined Mr Ms claim. It said its chief medical officer had 
reviewed the medical reports which show that Mr M had a previous history of physical and 
mental health issues. It said that none of the consultants said that the accident was the sole 
reason for Mr Ms permanent injury or illness. 
Mr M disputed that and Mapfre looked at the matter again but didnt change its view. Mapfre 
said that it would review the matter if Mr M could refer its chief medical officer to the part of 
the medical report which says that Mr M has a permanent disability of his 7th cervical 
vertebra (C7) which is a direct result of the accident. Mr M wasnt happy with that response 
and pursued his complaint.  
Mr M says that he suffered an injury to the C7 in his neck, injury to his left shoulder and ulna 
nerve in his left elbow. He says that the accident exacerbated a pre-existing lower back 
problem and caused his mental state to deteriorate. In summary, Mr M says:
Whilst he had pre-existing back problems and a history of depression he was coping 
well and fit and active before the accident but thats no longer the case.
Mapfre hasnt interpreted his injuries correctly. 
The term disabled is open to interpretation. 
Mapfre hasnt taken into account the findings of the neurosurgeon and clinical 
psychologist.
His psychological injury is as a direct result of the accident, meets the definition of 
disabled and exceed the time limits in the policy.
He meets the criteria of disabled as he has a disabled persons parking permit issued 
by his local council. 
His claim is valid under the terms of the policy. 
The accident caused him to have surgery, extensive pain and loss of income.
Mr M wants Mapfre to accept that his claim is valid so further medical evidence can be 
obtained and compensation paid. He wants Mapfre to pay the benefit he believes is due 
under the policy.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre had 
treated Mr M unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that Mapfre declined        
Mr Ms claim due to his pre-existing conditions. He didnt think that Mapfre was at fault for 
asking for additional medical evidence. The investigator said that the fact that Mr M has a 
disabled persons parking permit isnt relevant here. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the medical evidence hed provided 
hadnt been considered.  
Mapfre said that whilst Mr Ms injury might be permanent, it doesnt meet the criteria in the 
policy. It said that under the terms of the policy, the accident must be the sole cause of the 
injury and it must stop the policyholder from working for at least 12 months. Mapfre said that 
theres no evidence that the injury was so severe that it prevented Mr M from working for at 
least 12 months post injury and theres little evidence to suggest that the accident was the 
sole cause of Mr Ms injuries. It said that the medical evidence supports its position and that 
further medical evidence isnt necessary. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows: 
D  Personal accident
What you are covered for
We will pay you [] up to the amount shown in the table of benefits, if you are involved in an 
accident during your trip which causes you an injury, and this accident is the only thing that 
results in you becoming disabled within 12 months of the date of the accident. We will pay 
for one of the following.
1. Your permanent total disability caused by an accident during your trip that:
a. stops you from working in any job you are qualified for;
b. lasts for 12 months, and
c. our medical advisor believes is not going to improve at the end of those 12 months;
[] 
Special exclusions which apply to section D
We will not cover the following:
[]3. A disease or any physical disability or illness which existed before the trip.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ms ill-health. Its clear and quite understandable that Mr M has 
very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support his 
complaint, which Ive read and considered. However, I trust that he will not take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central issue, that is, whether Mapfre 
acted within the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly in declining the claim. 
This service is an informal alternative to the courts. My role isnt to substitute the medical 
judgment of any of the medical professionals involved in the case with my own. But I do 
weigh up all the medical evidence Ive been provided with to decide whether I think Mapfre 
handled Mr Ms claim fairly and reasonably. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated him unfairly. I 
say that because:
Theres an exclusion in the policy which means that Mapfre wont cover a disease, 
physical disability or illness which existed before the trip. When an insurer seeks to 
rely on an exclusion it must show that it applies in the particular circumstances that 
led to the claim. I think Mapfre has done that here. For the reasons Ill go on to 
explain, I think that the matters which concerned Mr M after his accident were 
present before his trip.  
In his report dated 16 July 2019, the consultant orthopaedic surgeon said that Mr M 
had extensive interventions of his left shoulder dating back to 2014/2015 and 
another accidental fall in March 2017. In relation to Mr Ms neck pain, the consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon said Mr M had chronic spinal problems. And in relation to        
Mr Ms left elbow, he said that Mr M had  pre-existing degenerative chronic 
neurogenic changes.
In her report of 29 July 2019, the clinical psychologist said that before the accident, 
Mr M had mild generalised anxiety which was exacerbated to moderate to severe by 
the accident. She said that Mr M had recurrent depressive disorder and referred to 
instances of Mr Ms depression from 2012, 2013, 2016 and 2017. The clinical 
psychologist said that whilst some of Mr Ms symptoms are attributable to the 
accident, the psychological symptoms dont meet the threshold for a formal 
diagnosis.
In his report dated 3 August 2019, the consultant neurologist said that Mr M had a 
long history of chronic low back pain and left sided sciatica. He said that the accident 
possibly exacerbated Mr Ms longstanding sciatica but noted that Mr M saw his GP 
four weeks before the accident due to worsening low back pain and sciatica. The 
consultant neurologist said that Mr M had a long history of degenerative shoulder 
disease.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Mapfre was at fault in deciding that the 
matters which troubled Mr M after the accident in October 2017 were present before 
the trip. Even if I came to a different conclusion about that, its for Mr M to show that he 
suffered a permanent total disability that stopped him from working in any job he was 
qualified for. The evidence Ive seen suggests that the accident didnt affect Mr Ms 
employment prospects. The consultant orthopaedic surgeon said that Mr M was fit for 
work and that his employment prospects are likely to be unaffected. The clinical 
psychologist said that she didnt  identify any evidence of disadvantage in the 
open occupational market, as a result of the psychological symptoms attributable to 
the accident. So, Mr M hasnt shown that hes met one of the qualifying conditions 
for a successful claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman