DRN-3248819
The complaint
Mr H complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
effective affordability checks. Had it done so, then Mr H wouldnt have been provided with
the loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Hs complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to partially 
uphold Mr Hs complaint  but for not as many loans as the adjudicator. A copy of the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics and form part of 
this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr H took four loans between June 2014 and November 2016 Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 20/06/2014 19/12/2014 50 £7.00
2 £400.00 23/01/2015 14/12/2015 50 £14.00
3 £500.00 14/12/2015 30/11/2016 52 £17.50
4 £500.00 30/11/2016 02/07/2018 52 £17.50
Morses acquired some of these accounts from a previous lender, but it only purchased loans
that were open in March 2014, when the acquisition took place. So Morses believes there
was one further loan, taken out before loan one in the table above.
A review of Mr Hs credit file shows the loan was closed in December 2013. So, like the
adjudicator explained in their assessment, Morses wasnt responsible for the sale of that
loan, and that loan wouldve formed part of a different lending chain. But overall, Mr H did
have five loans, but only the four in the table above can be considered.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 and 2. But the
adjudicator thought that loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have been lent. He said the pattern of
lending indicated Mr H had become persistently reliant on the loans and therefore they
shouldnt have been provided.
Neither Mr H nor his representative responded to the adjudicators findings.
Morses partial agreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 and 2. But it 
disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to loans 3 and 4. In summary, it 
doesnt feel Mr H had become persistently reliant on these loans for the following 
reasons:
There was no evidence that Mr H was using other funds to repay these loans.
Based on Mr Hs declared income and expenditure the loans looked affordable 
for him.
Morses decision to lend was complaint with the regulations applicable at the time 
and it considers the loans to have been sustainable.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr H doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Morses wasnt wrong to
lend loans 1 and 2. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute. But for the avoidance of doubt,
given this was early on in the lending relationship and given the amounts borrowed, I dont
think it was wrong of Morses to have provided them. But I have kept these loans in mind
when thinking about the overall lending relationship between Morses and Mr H.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
3 and 4.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Loan 3
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan 3 Mr H had taken three loans in around 18
months, he was taking larger loans, his repayments to Morses had increased and Mr H was
also committing to repay Morses for another 52 weeks. Which is why the adjudicator thought
this loan (and future loans) should be upheld.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Mr H had become reliant
on the loans. The loan amounts had increased but there werent any obvious repayment
difficulties, indeed, loans 1 and 2 appeared to have been repaid without any problems.
The number of loans and time in debt, is in my view, not particularly concerning, at this point
in time. So, I dont agree with the adjudicator that Morses ought to have reasonably
concluded that this loan was unsustainable for Mr H.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Mr H had been almost
continuously indebted to Morses for 18 months, and he was returning for further credit,
extending his indebtedness for at least another 52 weeks. Overall, I dont think it was
reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mr H declared to it about his income and
expenditure. Even though this information suggested Mr H had disposable income of around
£90 per week, Morses, in my view still needed to do more.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Hs actual financial position to
ensure loan 3 was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Mr Hs credit report. This
mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mr Hs general financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks but by carrying out a
proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that Mr H couldnt afford these loans.
Mr H hasnt provided this Service with a copy of his bank statements, But I do have a copy of
Mr Hs credit report that was generated in March 2019. So, the information recorded within it,
would cover the period of time when loan 3 was approved.
The credit report shows that Mr H had a credit card, mobile phone and what looks like a rent 
to-buy loan. But there isnt any indication that Mr H was a regular user of other forms of high
cost credit, such as payday loans or other home credit loans from other providers. There
also, werent any other signs of financial distress. This has led me to conclude, that even if
Morses wouldve carried out further checks it still wouldve likely have concluded Mr H
couldve afforded his repayments.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loan 3. Im not minded therefore to think Morses was wrong tohave provided this loan.
As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 3.
Loan 4
The loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of the consideration. So, I havent
felt he need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks for this loan because I
didnt consider it necessary to do so. Although, I accept, based on what Morses provided this
Service, that this loan wouldve looked affordable to it.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Mr H, Morses also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Mr H. Having looked at the overall pattern of
Morsess lending history with Mr H, I agree with our adjudicator that at this point in time,
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise
harmful, at the time it provided loan 4. I say this because;
Mr H had taken out four loans over an approximately two and a half years. I think this
was now a long time to be using this type of high cost credit and Mr H was also
extending his indebtedness for a further year.
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken out 4 loans and he had been indebted to Morses
for almost for the entire time. So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely
than not Mr H was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that Mr Hs
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably and his underlying financial situation
didnt seem to be improving.
By loan 4, Mr Hs weekly repayments had more than doubled compared to what he
way paying when he took loan 1. He started paying £7 per week but was now
committed to paying £17.50 per week. So, Mr Hs weekly repayments were
increasing which suggests that his finances may have been worsening.
Mr H frequently took new loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid.
Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H, on these occasions,
was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term financial need. To me,
this is indicative of his indebtedness not being sustainable.
I think that Mr H has lost out because Morses provided loan 4 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept
him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things right as
set out below.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mr H and Morses were asked to provide any further comments, information or evidence 
for this Services consideration no later than 12 January 2022. 
Morses didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr Hs representatives acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, it explained it would 
forward the decision to Mr H and get back in touch with this Service if there were any further 
comments. 
No further contact has been received and the deadline for a response has now expired, I see 
no reason to delay issuing the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr H nor Morses provided this Service with any new comments or information I 
see no reason to depart from the findings that I made in the provisional decision. So, I still 
think, that Morses was wrong to have advanced loan 4 because the lending was now 
harmful and unsustainable for Mr H. 
Ive set out below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Mr H. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not granted loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr H loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest,
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr H the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loan 4 means any information recorded aboutit is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr H as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman