DRN-3265707
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr G complain about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.s (Mapfre) offer of a partial refund of their travel insurance premium. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs F and Mr G bought single trip travel insurance through a broker. The 
policy was Platinum level which included cruise cover. Mapfre was the insurer. The cover 
was for the trip departure date of 11 March 2020 and cover ended in early May 2020. The 
premium cost £2,729.74 which also covered Mrs F and Mr G for any declared medical 
conditions.
Mrs F and Mr G say they travelled abroad but they were unable to board the cruise ship as it 
was cancelled due to countries borders being closed because of the Covid-19 situation.
Mrs F and Mr G contacted the insurance broker and asked for a policy premium refund. 
They received a final response from both the broker, who acted as Mapfres agent for 
collecting premiums, and Mapfre after they complained to us.  
The broker said when Mrs F and Mr G spoke to it to ask for a premium refund its 
representative had said they could receive a voucher to use against another of the brokers 
policy, but as Mrs F and Mr G had travelled on the policy that information was incorrect. It 
said cruise cover was incorporated into their policy and there was no partial refund if they 
didnt use the incorporated cruise cover. However, as a gesture of goodwill it offered a 
refund of the difference between the cost of the Gold Plus level policy (which didnt include 
cruise cover) and the Platinum level policy at the time they bought the poilcy, which was 
£289.58.
Mapfre said no premium refund was payable under the policy terms and the £289.58 offer 
was fair.
Mrs F and Mr G complained to us. They said the offer wasnt enough and they had been 
offered £1,000 in vouchers.
Our investigator said Mapfres offer was fair.
Mrs F and Mr G disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They said:
The holiday for was for special occasion and they were being penalised for  
something which wasnt their fault.
They had paid £2,729.74 for the premium for three months cover when a standard 
single trip policy for an older couple with medical conditions should cost around £300. 
The broker had told them the premium was so expensive because they were 
travelling to different countries. Mrs F and Mr G said as they didnt go on the cruise 
that multi stop element of the policy wasnt used so the offer was unfair.
They noted the policy included £5,000 cancellation cover and thought that should 
cover their situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is just about Mrs F and Mr Gs complaint about the policy premium refund. In 
response to our investigators view Mrs F and Mr G mentioned the cancellation section of the 
policy. The policy does provide cancellation and curtailment (cutting short a trip) cover in 
some circumstances which are set out in the policy. The cruise cover element of the policy 
also provides cover for certain circumstances as set out in the policy terms.
I understand Mrs F and Mr G havent made a claim under the policy about their trip not 
happening as it should have done. If Mrs F and Mr G travelled abroad before the cruise was 
cancelled theyre unlikely to have a cancellation claim as thats likely to only cover certain 
costs if the travel plans were cancelled before they left home. However, its possible their 
circumstances may be covered by other terms in the policy. They can make a claim to 
Mapfre if they wish. I note the brokers letter says if Mrs F and Mr G accepted the premium 
refund offer any potential claims made under the cruise cover would be void but we may not 
think thats a fair reason for Mapfre to decline a claim. If Mrs F and Mr G didnt agree with 
Mapfres decision about a claim they could make a separate complaint to us on that matter.
The policy says (the broker) act as agents of the insurer in collecting premiums; such 
monies are deemed to be held by the insurers with which your insurance is arranged. So 
although Mrs F and Mr G contacted the broker about the premium refund the broker acted 
as Mapfres agent for collecting premiums and Mapfre is the right business for this complaint 
to be about. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs F and Mr Gs insurance policy outline their contract of 
insurance with Mapfre. Under those terms and conditions the only time Mapfre needs to 
possibly refund any part of the premium is if Mrs F and Mr G cancelled the policy within a 
14 day cooling off period from when they first bought the policy. But for a single trip policy, 
as Mrs F and Mr G had, the policy terms are clear that no premium refund is payable if Mrs F 
and Mr G have already travelled even within the 14 days cooling off period. Thats in line 
with whats required by the relevant insurance industry rules.
Mrs F and Mr G didnt cancel the policy within the first 14 days, or at all. They travelled using 
the policy. Im satisfied that under the poilcy terms Mapfre doesnt need to pay any premium 
refund. 
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mrs F and Mr Gs planned trip changed due to circumstances outside of their 
control. So Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Mapfre to do 
anything further, taking into account the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs F and Mr G 
contract with Mapfre to be performed  cover under the policy started on the date they 
bought the policy. 
Mrs F and Mr G werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Mapfre also 
covered Mrs F and Mr G for cancellation cover from the policy start date. So the premium 
Mrs F and Mr G paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mrs F and Mr G 
falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
Mapfre was covering the risk of Mrs F and Mr G making a successful claim on the policy 
from the policy start date. And as Mrs F and Mr G went on the trip Mapfre bore the risk of the 
holiday, even if they didnt have the trip they planned. Its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however 
short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
However, as once Mrs F and Mr G were abroad they werent able to go on the planned 
cruise Mapfre has offered to refund the element of the premium that related to the cruise 
cover, £289.58. Mrs F and Mr G say they were told by the broker that the premium they paid 
reflected that the cruise was going to have multiple stop overs. But theres no evidence to 
support thats so. The evidence is that the Gold Plus level policy, without the cruise cover, 
cost £289.58 less than the Platinum level policy which included the cruise cover. So the 
evidence is that the part of the premium related to cruise cover was £289.58.
Having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the 
Covid-19 pandemic, I think the offer Mapfre has made to refund £289.58 of the premium is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs F and Mr G say the broker offered £1,000 in vouchers as a refund. But the brokers 
letter says it gave them wrong advice about vouchers being available as they had already 
travelled on the policy. For the reasons Ive given above Im satisfied Mapfres offer to refund 
£289.58 is fair.
Putting things right
Mapfre must pay Mrs F and Mr G £289.58 as a premium refund, as its now offered to do. 
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint about the premium refund and require Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay Mrs F and Mr G £289.58 as 
a premium refund, as its now offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman