DRN-3114774
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim on their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs H booked a skiing holiday abroad. They took out an insurance 
policy on 8 March 2020 and were due to travel in April 2020.  
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic and, within a few days, the country they were due to visit shut all non-essential 
public spaces and closed the border. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. That advice 
remained in place on the date that Mr and Mrs H were due to travel. As a result, 
Mr and Mrs Hs trip was cancelled by their providers  that included various components of 
their trip such as trains and other services theyd booked.  
Mr and Mrs H were able to cover the majority of their unused costs, including some in the 
form of vouchers. However, they were unable to recover all their money from the various 
providers theyd booked with. Since they raised their complaint to our service, they told us 
that one of the vouchers they were provided with has expired. 
URV declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim on the basis that Covid-19 was a known event at the 
time the policy was taken out and because they said the circumstances of the claim werent 
covered by the policy. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think 
that the policy terms made it clear that Mr and Mrs H werent covered for cancellation due to 
change in FCDO advice. And she didnt think it was reasonable to consider that Covid-19 
was a known issue at the time Mr and Mrs H bought the policy. The investigator 
recommended that URV reassess the claim, and she highlighted to Mr and Mrs H that theyd 
need to demonstrate that any vouchers or credit notes were no longer valid. She explained 
that she didnt think it was fair and reasonable to direct URV to pay interest in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted our investigators findings. URV didnt and asked an ombudsman to 
make a decision. They set out the terms of the cancellation section and said that 
Mr and Mrs H had a 14-day cooling off period when purchasing their policy.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page two it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all but essential travel. 
Page seven of the policy terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which 
cancellation is covered. Cover is available if the policyholder has to cancel a trip if one of the 
following circumstances unexpectedly arose before they left home:   
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation was not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant; 
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders 
cancelled.
In such circumstances the policy says it will pay: 
Up to £5,000 for your share of any costs that are directly related to your trip, which 
you have paid and cannot get back from anyone else, or which cannot be transferred 
or used for another purpose. 
However, the policy also has an exclusion within the criteria for purchase, on page one of 
the policy, which says that the insurance will only be valid if the consumer:
Is not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: The policy covers unexpected cancellation. However, I dont agree that Mr and Mrs H 
could have known that Covid-19 would impact on their travel plans in April 2020 
when they took out their annual travel insurance policy on 8 March 2020. The WHO 
didnt declare a pandemic until 11 March 2020. And URV also hasnt provided any 
evidence that they made it clear to consumers like Mr and Mrs H that claims relating 
to Covid-19 wouldnt be covered. Its not mentioned within the policy documentation 
and therefore Im not persuaded that its fair and reasonable for URV to conclude 
Mr and Mrs H took out the policy knowing that they were likely to need to claim due 
to Covid-19. In reaching that conclusion Ive also taken into account that 
Mr and Mrs H have demonstrated that the policy was also taken out to cover an 
unrelated holiday in March 2020, which went ahead as planned.
Mr and Mrs H trip was cancelled due to the impact of the pandemic and, at the point 
of their planned departure, theyd have been unable to travel because the FCDO 
advised against all but essential travel to their destination. Thats not something that 
is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed 
insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, 
I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr and Mrs H had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs H.   
Mr and Mrs H would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order 
to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that 
this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. 
So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear to 
them.
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of 
Mr and Mrs H and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs H would have purchased 
the policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought the policy and that this would impact on their 
travel plans. In reaching that conclusion, Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs H 
could have purchased cover for changes in FCDO advice when they purchased their 
policy. And I think its likely that they would have done so had the relevant exclusions 
been made sufficiently clear. 
As our investigator has already explained travel insurance policies typically only 
cover irrecoverable losses. So, Mr and Mrs H are likely to need to provide evidence 
that any vouchers or credit notes that they were issued with are no longer able to be 
used or cant be extended.  
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman