DRN-4256604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about the poor customer service they received from a 
mortgage broker business that was a member of Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB). 
Mr and Mrs T say their mortgage application was withdrawn without warning, which they say 
has caused them financial loss, distress and inconvenience for which they would like to be 
compensated. They estimate their losses at £32,100.
Mr and Mrs T are also unhappy about the way MAB dealt with their complaint, and that the 
mortgage adviser contacted the police.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs T being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Briefly, in 2022 Mr and Mrs T were applying for a mortgage through MAB. They were selling 
their existing property and buying a new-build which would be completed in December 2022. 
Mr T had worked at MAB since May 2022 on a three-month probationary period, which is 
when the mortgage application was begun, using an adviser employed by the same 
company within the MAB network for which Mr T worked.
An application was made to a lender (which I will call L) and a mortgage offer was issued on 
28 June 2022. However, Mr T left his employment with MAB in early August 2022. As a 
result, the adviser informed L of this, because it was a material change to the application. 
Mr T had a new job beginning in September 2022, but on a lower salary.
This meant that L wouldnt be willing to lend the same amount. Mr T told MAB that he was 
taking a second job, and after being prompted several times to provide details of this, Mr T 
sent a letter about a casual job he said hed taken. However, L required three months 
payslips, and said it wouldnt accept a second job taken just to bump up income to qualify 
for the mortgage. 
MAB had concerns about the documentation Mr T had provided. In October 2022 MAB 
withdrew the mortgage application. Mr and Mrs T went to another broker and were able to 
arrange another mortgage, but at a higher interest rate, and with additional broker costs. 
Mr and Mrs T completed their purchase in December 2022, and Mr Ts told us that in 
January 2023 he gave up his second job.
Mr and Mrs T complained to MAB, not only about the way the mortgage application had 
been dealt with, but also that the adviser had contacted the police, who had visited 
Mr and Mrs T at their home, which they consider to be harassment. 
In its final response letter, MAB set out a timeline of events and explained why it wasnt 
upholding the complaint. MAB explained that L was entitled to re-underwrite the application 
due to Mr Ts change in circumstances. Reasonable deadlines were set for Mr T to provide 
MAB with information about his employment. However, MAB didnt feel the documentation 
provided was sufficient for mortgage purposes. 
MAB said that the adviser was entitled to withdraw from the application. MAB also noted that 
the adviser had felt harassed and had received abusive messages from Mr T, as a result of 
which MAB was satisfied that she had been justified in involving the police.
Finally, MAB apologised for any delay in responding to the complaint.
Dissatisfied with MABs response, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator was satisfied that MAB had reasonable grounds for withdrawing from the 
application. He also clarified that we couldnt investigate any issues relating to the adviser 
calling the police, as this didnt relate to the provision of a financial service. The investigator 
also clarified that a complaint about complaint-handling wasnt something we could consider 
either.
He also noted that Mr and Mrs T were raising new allegations against MAB, including failure 
to provide a client care letter, breach of the General Data Protection Regulation, failure to 
explain the mortgage process, dishonesty and misleading the police. The investigator said 
that these were new issues that hadnt previously been raised and so couldnt be considered 
as part of this complaint.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a court, a consumer protection body, or part of the criminal justice system. Were an 
alternative dispute resolution body, that is, an informal alternative to the courts for financial 
businesses and their customer to resolve their differences.
 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Its unfortunate that the relationship between Mr T and the adviser deteriorated to the point 
where she found it necessary to contact the police. However, that isnt something which falls 
within the scope of our rules. 
Likewise, Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about the way MAB dealt with their complaint is outside 
our jurisdiction. Complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, and in the context of the 
circumstances of the main complaint, complaint-handling is not ancillary to a regulated 
activity either.Ive also noted the new complaints Mr and Mrs T have raised. However, before our service is 
able to consider any new complaint, Mr and Mrs T will first need to raise it with MAB. If they 
are dissatisfied with MABs response, they can ask us to look at the complaint. 
Turning now to the mortgage application, Im satisfied that, when Mr T left his job with MAB 
in August 2022, the adviser was obliged to let L know this, as it was a material change to 
Mr Ts circumstances. As a result of this change, L asked MAB to obtain further information 
from Mr T so that the mortgage application could be re-underwritten by L. That is standard 
industry practice, and so there was nothing untoward in the requests made by MAB for this 
information.
After Mr Ts salary changed, L wouldnt lend the full amount it had originally been going to 
lend. However, Mr T said hed taken a second job to supplement his income, and so L 
wanted to see proof of this.
I will explain the significance of second jobs in relation to mortgage applications. Generally 
where a potential new borrower takes a second job to boost their income, mortgage lenders 
will need to be satisfied that this isnt just on a temporary basis, in order to meet affordability 
criteria, as there is a risk to the lender that once the mortgage completes, the borrower will 
immediately give up that second job and their income will reduce. Consequently lenders will 
generally want to see a sustained employment pattern over a period of months. 
Im therefore satisfied that reasonable requests were made by MAB for Mr and Mrs T to 
provide sufficient information to support their mortgage application, and that the deadlines 
for this information to be provided were quite clear. Im satisfied there was nothing unusual 
or unprofessional in these requests, or in the tone of the emails requesting this information.
MAB didnt think the documentation provided stood up to scrutiny. That is a judgement call 
that MAB was entitled to make. Im also satisfied that, when the information provided didnt 
appear to MAB to be satisfactory, MAB was entitled to withdraw the application and cease 
acting for Mr and Mrs T. 
I appreciate this was frustrating and upsetting for Mr and Mrs T. Ultimately, however, they 
were able to proceed with their purchase with a mortgage from another lender, albeit at a 
higher interest rate. However, because Im satisfied MAB acted appropriately, there is no 
basis on which it would be fair or reasonable for me to order MAB to compensate 
Mr and Mrs T for the additional interest they will be paying their new lender, for their new 
broker costs, or for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman