DRN-1972084
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined a claim made 
under their buildings warranty.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B have a buildings warranty with NHBC which covers their home.
Mrs and Mr B have had the NHBC warranty since 2015. In September 2018, the curtain wall 
glass panel at the front of their property shattered, so they made a claim to NHBC.
NHBC declined the claim. They acknowledged that there was damage to the panel but said 
this wasnt caused by a defect in the building of the property and so wasnt covered by Mrs 
and Mr Bs policy.
Mrs and Mr B complained to NHBC, but they maintained their position, so Mrs and Mr B 
brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think NHBC had done anything wrong. 
Mrs and Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The NHBC warranty has a number of sections, which provide different types of cover in 
different periods of time. This claim was made around three years into the life of the 
warranty, so Section 3 applies. Broadly speaking, during this period, NHBC provide 
insurance against certain types of damage to the home.
The policy defines damage  and theres no dispute here that Mrs and Mr Bs glass panel is 
damaged.
It also says NHBC will cover any damage to various parts of the home which is caused by a 
defect. Theres no dispute here that the glass panel is one of the parts of the home that is 
covered.
The policy also defines what is meant by a defect, which is:
The breach of any mandatory NHBC requirement by the builder
So, the issue in this case is quite simple. NHBC say the property was built in line with their 
requirements, so there is no defect and hence no cover for the damage. Mrs and Mr B say 
there was a failure to follow NHBC requirements by the builder  and so cover should be 
provided.
A summary of the NHBC requirements is set out at pages 22-25 of Mrs and Mr Bs policy 
document. In short, NHBC require builders to comply with five mandatory technical 
requirements.
One of these, the Materials requirement, says that when choosing what materials to use, 
builders should take account of the proposed purpose and location of those materials.
The policy also says:
Materials, products and building systems will normally be acceptable if they comply 
with NHBC standards or British Standards
The policy then refers the reader to very specific technical standards for different parts of 
buildings which underpin the NHBC requirement. This very detailed guidance is not included 
in the policy, but it is accessible via the NHBC website.
The requirement relating to curtain walling and cladding (Chapter 6.9 of the NHBC 
requirements guidance), says that glazing in curtain walling should be in accordance with 
Chapter 6.7, which is about Doors, Windows and Glazing. 
Chapter 6.7 says, amongst other things:
Glazing and materials should comply with appropriate British Standards. 
including BS EN 12150
Its not in dispute that the glass used in Mrs and Mr Bs panel complied with BS EN 12150. 
Nor is it in dispute that the most likely explanation of the glass shattering is that it contained 
traces of nickel sulphide. This was the explanation provided by the expert NHBC consulted. 
In short, if glass is contaminated in this way  and apparently its very difficult to ensure that 
its not  then the molecular structure of the nickel sulphide when heated and cooled can 
cause a glass pane to shatter spontaneously.
Mrs and Mr B think the builder should have used glass which conforms to a different British 
Standard (BS EN 14179). This has been heat soaked so that any fracturing caused by 
nickel sulphide contamination may occur before the glass is put to use. Although this method 
itself isnt fool-proof and cant guarantee that spontaneous shattering will not occur at a later 
time.
I have every sympathy with Mrs and Mr B. Their property is relatively new and one wouldnt 
expect a major component such as the glass panel to fail so soon.
However, I have to take into account what the NHBC warranty is intended to cover  and 
what its terms and conditions say. NHBC are, in effect, providing some security so that 
homeowners are covered if and when damage results from builders not building in 
accordance with recognised standards. 
The warranty isnt intended to cover all damage to the home, no matter how it occurs. Its in 
effect a safeguard against sub-standard building.
In this case, Im satisfied the builders used glass in the curtain wall panel which conformed 
to British Standards  and so met the NHBC technical requirement. According to the British Standards Institute itself, BS EN 12150 provides, Thermally toughened soda lime silicate 
safety glass for use in buildings.
There may be other British Standards which provide a different  and/or higher quality  
standard of glass. But Im satisfied that, in complying with BS EN 12150  which sets 
standards for glass for use in buildings - the builders of Mrs and Mr Bs home have used 
materials which comply with the recognised standards.
That being the case, there is no defect, as defined in the NHBC policy. And the damage to 
the glass panel is not covered by the warranty.
I completely understand Mrs and Mr Bs frustration about this. But its not for me to enter into 
any debate about whether the current standards are correct. 
Its arguable that those standards do allow builders to use a material which may  in a 
limited number of cases  shatter spontaneously. That may be something Mrs and Mr B 
want to take up with the British Standards Institute. 
But I have to focus on the warranty and what its terms and conditions say NHBC will do (and 
wont do). Its clear to me there is no defect, as defined in the policy  because the builders 
have used materials which comply with the current recognised standards. And so, the 
damage to Mrs and Mr Bs glass panel isnt covered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman