DRN-4003159
The complaint
Mr W complains Aviva Life and Pensions Limited gave him incorrect information about his 
pension policies which led him to paying more tax than he should have done.
What happened
Mr W had a number of workplace pension policies from his employment with firm S. These 
policies were originally set up with Friends Life and are now the responsibility of Aviva.
The policy details are:
A- Scheme F20079/18 made up of three policies (**35, **39 and **43) valued in 2019 at 
around £23,678
B- Scheme F8032/29 valued at around £29,099 (described as a conventional with-profit 
money purchase scheme with GAR) 
For ease of reading Ill refer to these as policy A and policy B, even though policy A is made 
up of three elements. It seems the policies were originally linked together under a Corporate 
Trust. 
Mr W turned 60 in May 2019, and although he was still working he wanted to use these 
workplace pensions to build up some savings to enable him to retire early. Due to poor 
annuity rates at the time, he decided it would be more tax efficient to make lump sum 
withdrawals in different tax years, which would allow him to do some home improvements 
and change his car. So he wrote to tell Aviva he wanted to encash policy A in the 2019/20 
tax year, releasing sufficient funds for his needs without attracting higher rate tax. 
In June 2019 Aviva wrote to him with retirement options relating to policy B, which he didnt 
wish to encash, as he believed it was performing better. In July 2019 Aviva sent Mr W a 
Retirement Options pack headed up with the scheme number of policy B, with an estimated 
valuation of just under £54,725, and that the policys guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) would 
be lost if transferred or encashed. To Mr Ws surprise Aviva said schemes A and B were 
linked, so all four policies had to be encashed together, which Mr W was concerned would 
make him liable for higher rate tax. But given the choice between encashing them together 
or having to purchase an annuity, he decided to go ahead with full encashment, believing he 
could claim back some of the tax overpayment from HMRC, or utilise his wifes unused 
personal tax allowance.
In August 2019 Aviva sent Mr W a retirement pack (headed with scheme B) with a much 
higher valuation of around £78,021. Encashment was delayed as Aviva needed to verify Mr 
Ws identity and bank account. A new retirement pack was produced based on a retirement 
date of 20 September 2019 with a valuation of £55,021, which meant Mr W received a net 
payment from his Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) of just over £38,171, 
which was far lower than he expected based on the August figure. Aviva had deducted 
emergency tax of around £16,850, which it said Mr W would need to correct with HMRC.
Mr W complained to Aviva, saying he based his decision to encash the policies on the higher 
valuation, and was unhappy with the overall service. Aviva said the August 2019 valuation 
was incorrect and out of line with those in September and July 2019, and statements Mr W 
had received over the years. So Mr W hadnt suffered an actual financial loss, just a loss of 
expectation, for which it paid £300 compensation. But Mr W declined Avivas offer to unwind 
the transaction, saying he feared it would take too long.  
Mr W referred his complaint to this service in January 2020, making a number of complaint 
points. The case was allocated to one of our investigators in October 2021, who didnt 
uphold it. In relation to the incorrect valuation she said Aviva had made a mistake but the 
compensation it had paid was enough to put things right. And Mr Ws other points needed to 
be reviewed by Aviva first. 
While Mr Ws complaint was with this service, in March 2022 Aviva discovered the policies 
could have been encashed separately. It paid Mr W an additional £300 for this, and offered 
to consider any financial loss, on the production of evidence. This development changed the 
investigators mind, as she said Mr W had lost out financially by not being able to encash the 
policies separately in different tax years. So she said Aviva should reimburse Mr W for the 
additional tax he paid. And pay an additional £500 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr W accepted the investigators view and agreed to work out his additional tax. Aviva said it 
was confused, as our investigator had initially limited this complaint to the incorrect valuation 
and some service issues and had directed it to treat Mr Ws other points including the policy 
encashment separately. Yet the two complaints had been combined in the second view. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 in which I acknowledged the investigator 
had initially separated the complaint, but Id decided to list all of Mr Ws complaint points and 
set out which ones formed part of this decision. 
My provisional findings 
Mr W had made the following points (in summary):
He asked why Aviva had provided a valuation relating to B, when he wanted to 
encash A only;
If the schemes were linked and had to be encashed together, why was this not made 
clear at the outset;
He took the decision to encash all four policies together based on the higher August 
2019 valuation so Aviva should honour it;
Encashing all policies in the same tax year led to him paying more tax, for which 
holds Aviva responsible;
Aviva then said he could have encashed the policies separately, meaning hed taken 
action he wouldnt have done;
Aviva caused an unnecessary delay by not asking him to confirm his identity at an 
earlier stage;
Aviva takes too long to respond to written correspondence, and should reply using 
first class post;
I also said the below points which arose subsequently dont form part of this decision:
When the policies were encashed Aviva failed to update its records correctly, so it 
wrote to Mr W as if one of the policies still existed. It paid £50 compensation for that;
In December 2020 Aviva wrote to Mr W to say it had used an incorrect surrender rate 
when calculating the policy value of policy B, so paid him an additional £1,336.59. In January 2022 Aviva told Mr W it should have added late payment interest on the 
sum above, so paid a further £39.54
I made the following findings (in summary):
Mr W made clear from the outset in his letter to Aviva dated 23 May 2019, he wanted 
to encash policies *35, *39 and *43 (so Scheme A). On 19 June 2019 Aviva had sent 
Mr W a retirement options pack which appeared to relate to policy B (valuation 
£54,725), without explaining why, so I thought its communication could have been 
better;
Aviva subsequently explained the policies couldnt be encashed separately due to 
the corporate trust, so on that basis Mr W decided to proceed with the encashment 
rather than purchase an annuity. But he said he understood the tax implications and 
didnt intend to take financial advice;
I didnt agree Mr W only proceeded with the encashment based on the August 2019 
valuation, as hed clearly given instructions prior to August. I said the valuation had 
been a nice surprise, but was much higher and out of line with previous valuations. 
So Aviva didnt need to honour the higher valuation, and I thought £300 and offering 
to reverse the transaction, (which Mr W declined) was in line with what Id suggest;
But in March 2020 six months after Mr W went ahead with the encashment of the 
four policies, Aviva admitted the two schemes were no longer linked under the 
corporate trust but were held under direct obligation. Meaning Mr W couldve 
accessed policy A as an UFPLS, and amended his retirement date for policy B, or 
taken B as an UFPLS in a subsequent tax year, either option would have reduced his 
tax liability;
Aviva hadnt explained when this changed, so I based my conclusions on the policies 
being held in direct obligation in May 2019, but Avivas records being incorrect. Had 
Mr W been given the correct information, I thought it more likely than not he would 
have just encashed the three policies held under Scheme A, rather than schemes A 
and B combined.  
So I upheld that element of his complaint. But I recognised, as Mr W had also done, 
the difficulty in putting him back in the position hed otherwise have been. As his loss 
relates to a higher tax liability, but also the consequences of encashing policy B 
which he wouldnt otherwise have done. Reinstatement of policy B would require Mr 
W to return the funds to Aviva (or at least the balance in excess of what hed have 
received in relation to policy A), and it wasnt clear if Aviva could reinstate the policy;
I agreed with Mr W its not possible to be sure what wouldve happened if policy B 
hadnt been encashed. There are so many variables, including market fluctuations 
and Mr Ws own circumstances, and it wouldnt be fair to apply hindsight. And 
although Mr W no longer has policy B, hes benefited from the funds, the policy value 
has been protected from any market volatility, and hasnt asked to reinstate policy B 
and hasnt offered to return funds to Aviva; 
Mr W has provided Aviva and this service with his calculations showing the difference 
in tax between only encashing policy A in 2019/20, with what actually happened. 
Hes worked out he wouldve paid tax of around £4,802, whereas he was actually 
charged £10,650, meaning he paid £5,852 more tax than he should have. 
I didnt feel it would be fair to simply accept Mr Ws calculations, so I set out my own 
rough calculations comparing the tax obligations for policies A and B. I concluded 
that by encashing the policies together rather than separately in two tax years, it 
appeared Mr W had paid around £5,890 more tax than he otherwise wouldve done. 
But as this was a fair and reasonable solution, rather than a precise calculation, I 
said Aviva should pay Mr W the sum of £5,800 in respect of his additional tax. 
As Mr W intended to obtain a refund of overpaid tax from HMRC and see if he could 
utilise his wifes unused personal allowance, I said if he did receive a tax rebate from HMRC in respect of this, as an undertaking I would expect him to repay this to Aviva, 
as it would represent double enrichment. 
In terms of the customer service issues Mr W experienced, I didnt think Aviva was 
obliged to use first class post, and it wasnt responsible for delays caused by the 
postal system. I acknowledged Mr W is entitled to choose postal communication, but 
a phone call or email is usually a quicker way to resolve queries;
I didnt think it was unreasonable of Aviva to only request proof of identity once firm 
instructions had been received. I accepted its an additional administrative burden for 
Aviva and inconvenience those customers who may not wish to proceed once a 
quote had been received. I was satisfied this wasnt the reason for the fall in Mr Ws 
policy value, as the August 2019 valuation hadnt been genuine; 
In summary I said Aviva had certainly got some things wrong here, and paid Mr W 
£600 in compensation. I didnt agree with the investigators recommendation of a 
further £500. So I said Aviva should pay Mr W an additional £200 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded. 
Mr W accepted the provisional findings. Although he was disappointed with the 
recommendation of £200 rather than £500, as the matter has been outstanding for around 
three years he was just pleased to reach a conclusion. 
Aviva made the following points (in summary):
It repeated that it had been told by this service to address some issues separately, so 
those points shouldnt have been combined in this decision;
It had offered to compensate Mr W for the additional tax he paid, but couldnt do so 
without evidence which Mr W said hed been too busy to provide;
It pointed out it had actually paid Mr W total compensation of £650 not £600, so the 
increase was £150 not £200. It didnt agree any more compensation was justified, 
and had understood it wasnt usually the practice of this service to increase 
compensation by small amounts;
But Aviva didnt clarify when or why its position in terms of the corporate trust changed. Nor 
did it say whether if it would be possible to reinstate policy B if Mr W wished and was 
prepared to return the funds.
So the case has come back to me to issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems both parties have broadly accepted my provisional findings, so I see no reason to 
change them. But before I go on to set out how things should be put right, Ill address Avivas 
points. 
The reason Mr W complained to this service was because he intended to encash policy A, to 
avoid paying higher rate tax and was told he couldnt. And then believing he had no choice 
but to encash the policies together, the value changed. He then discovered he could have just encashed policy A all along, so he paid additional tax, and overall he felt he received 
poor customer service. 
I apologise to Aviva for any confusion, as I recognise our investigator initially separated out 
the points Mr W brought to this service, but which Aviva hadnt addressed. I think all these 
points relate to one transaction, so it makes sense to consider it as such.  
Aviva has issued three final response letters to Mr W, in October 2019, July 2020 and March 
2022, and has paid Mr W compensation totalling £650. But while for completeness I 
mentioned the issue addressed in the July 2020 response for which Aviva paid £50, that 
point isnt the main thrust of Mr Ws complaint, so I didnt make a finding on it. For the same 
reason I also mentioned but didnt make a finding on, the two subsequent errors in relation to 
the surrender value, which Aviva says came to light following an internal audit. 
I set out in the provisional decision why I felt it was appropriate to address the majority of Mr 
Ws complaint about the loss arising from his policy encashment together in this decision. As 
hes accepted my findings, theres no reason to think Mr W would attempt to pursue the 
additional points separately. But should that happen, Aviva can refer to this decision. 
So for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint in 
part. 
Putting things right
Financial loss 
I can see in Avivas 2022 final response it offered to consider evidence of Mr Ws financial 
loss. Mr W has provided his HMRC 2019/20 tax calculation, which shows the tax hes paid. 
And Ive explained why its not possible to put Mr W back to the position hed be in, (which 
would be having encashed policy A only in 2019/20), as both policies have already been 
encashed. 
While its not a perfect solution, Im satisfied Mr W has paid around £5,800 more tax than he 
otherwise would have, but for Avivas error. So I think its fair for Aviva to pay Mr W £5,800 in 
respect of the tax overpayment.
If Mr W receives any refund from HMRC in respect of this, he should undertake to repay this 
to Aviva. 
Trouble and upset 
Compensation to reflect the impact of a firms error(s) is not an exact science, and there isnt 
a set tariff. Mr W experienced a number of errors for which Aviva has paid compensation, 
but Im looking at the impact overall of Mr W experiencing more than one error which had a 
cumulative effect. 
Individually Id say £300 is about right for the disappointment and loss of expectation where 
an incorrect policy valuation has been given. 
But I dont think £300 is enough to compensate Mr W for the disjointed experience overall, 
the inaccuracy of Avivas communications, the lack of clear explanations, paying higher rate 
tax which he specifically wanted to avoid,  and the disruption to his retirement plans. I 
appreciate Mr W wasnt happy, but Ive seen no evidence he was treated with arrogance or 
disrespect. Mr W has been put in the position of sacrificing policy B against his wishes, and which if 
Aviva had given him the correct information he wouldnt have done. So I still think in addition 
to the two payments of £300 (and the £50 in relation to another issue), Aviva should pay Mr 
W a further £200 to reflect the impact of its errors.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Life and Pensions Limited should pay Mr W a total of 
£6,000. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman