DRN-3274197
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him incorrect information about removing his 
overdraft limit after he discovered his overdraft wasnt interest free and that the interest he 
incurred on his overdraft has contributed to his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr K has a current account with HSBC, his account has an arranged overdraft limit of 
£1,500. Mr K believed his overdraft was interest free so when he incurred interest on his 
overdrawn balance he contacted HSBC to complain as he felt he had been misinformed 
about his overdraft facility and was concerned that the charges were causing him financial 
difficulties.
Mr K says he was told by HSBC on two occasions that it would remove his overdraft limit at 
no cost to him. But HSBC then issued a final response letter where it explained that Mr Ks 
overdraft was only interest free for the first £500 of the facility, and that to remove the 
overdraft facility the account would need to be in credit or at a zero balance. Nonetheless, 
HSBC acknowledged that it may have given Mr K incorrect information, and offered to refund 
charges applied to his account from January to May 2021 and pay an additional £50 to 
recognise any inconvenience caused.
Mr K remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ks complaint. She thought that HSBC had acted fairly. Mr K 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He thinks HSBC 
should honour what it originally said to him and remove his overdraft facility as he says 
HSBC is aware that he is in financial difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that what HSBC has already done here is a reasonable resolution to 
the complaint, so I wont be asking it do anything more.
I appreciate that Mr K may not been aware that he would be charged for using some of his 
overdraft facility, and that he may well have been given incorrect information about removing 
the overdraft facility. But HSBC has now explained how Mr Ks overdraft facility works, and I 
think the compensation it has offered is appropriate to recognise any confusion or 
inconvenience caused.
Mr K says he was told his overdraft facility would be removed. I havent seen anything from 
HSBCs notes to support that, but even if he was told this HSBC subsequently explained in 
its final response letter that it wouldnt be able to remove his overdraft facility unless his 
account is in a credit position. 
I also understand that Mr K feels the overdraft interest has caused him financial difficulties, 
and where a customer is experiencing financial difficulties we would expect their bank to 
treat them with forbearance. 
But looking at Mr Ks account statements, I dont think there was anything prior to him 
contacting HSBC about the charges which should have flagged to HSBC that Mr K might 
need some help. 
I accept that Mr K was using his overdraft regularly, but the amount being credited to the 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by credits to 
the account. So I dont think this was enough to flag to HSBC that it ought to review his 
account in more detail, or that should have alerted HSBC to any potential financial difficulty. 
And when Mr K got in touch with HSBC to say he was concerned about the charges, Im 
satisfied that HSBC took reasonable steps to assist him by refunding some of the charges to 
Mr K, and subsequently asking him to get in touch to discuss a way forward with his 
overdraft. I would not expect HSBC to simply remove Mr Ks overdraft unless either the 
overdrawn balance was repaid or it became clear that Mr K was unable to afford to repay it 
and steps were being taken to either agree an affordable repayment plan or default the 
account. I would encourage Mr K to contact HSBC to discuss what help it may be able to 
offer him with his account.
With all this in mind, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly here. Its taken appropriate steps 
to respond to Mr Ks concerns and so I wont be asking it to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman