DRN-2874171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has not offered them an acceptable 
refund after they cancelled their travel insurance policy due to the impact of Covid-19.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs H purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by Great Lakes. They paid a premium of £544.63, which included cover for their 
medical conditions and a travel disruption extension. The main policy was effective from 1 
February 2020 until 31 January 2021. And the travel disruption extension was added on 10 
February 2020.
On 25 March 2020 Mr and Mrs H contacted Great Lakes by telephone to request a refund or 
suspension of their policy after the government had advised against foreign travel due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Great Lakes said that Mr and Mrs H werent entitled to a refund under 
the terms and conditions of their policy. So Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint.
Great Lakes later offered Mr and Mrs H a pro rata refund in the form of a credit voucher 
towards buying a new 15-month policy for the price of 12 months. Or a pro rata credit 
towards buying an annual deferred policy. Its since told us it calculated this credit to be 
worth £421.12 based on the premium Mr and Mrs H had paid for their base policy and to 
cover their medical conditions, for the remaining policy period from 25 March 2020 when 
they first contacted it to cancel their policy.
But Mr and Mrs H say Great Lakes still want them to pay a further £450 for either of these 
two options. They think this is unacceptable - particularly given Mr Hs age and medical 
conditions. So they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 1 February 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to amend its pro rata refund calculation to include the premium Mr and 
Mrs H had paid for their optional travel extension cover, as well as the policy base premium 
and premium paid to cover their medical conditions. The investigator also felt that it was fair 
for Great Lakes to offer this refund by way of credit voucher if the terms were not 
unreasonably restrictive. 
Unfortunately our investigator described Great Lakes voucher terms incorrectly in their initial 
view to the parties. But I can see the investigator has since confirmed that Great Lakes offer 
is for: 
An opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual 
policy for the price 12, at the current market rates. 
Or the opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a deferred annual 
policy. This will be a 12-month policy, at the current market rates. You can then 
choose to start the cover at any time within 12 months of purchasing the policy. 
The pro rata credit is non-transferrable and must be used for an immediate purchase.
Great Lakes has also told us it now offers UK only annual multi-trip policies, where there is a 
potential to upgrade the destination area later, subject to terms and conditions.
Following our investigators recommendations Great Lakes agreed to increase the value of 
its pro rata refund credit voucher to £459.60, which took into consideration the premium Mr 
and Mrs H had paid for their travel disruption cover extension. But Mr and Mrs H do not think 
the terms of the credit voucher associated with this offer are fair. 
So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I asked Great Lakes to review the way it had calculated the pro-rata refund amount offered. I 
explained that based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should 
calculate the refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length 
(in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Your right to cancel the policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you 
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs H a pro rata refund. I say 
this because: The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that no premium refund is due 
outside of the cooling off period, though Great Lakes may use its discretion in 
exceptional circumstances. The examples it gives as to what constitutes exceptional 
circumstances are bereavement or a change in cover for medical conditions. These 
are clearly very individual circumstances. But the Covid-19 pandemic has affected 
the travel plans of a great may people. So I dont think it would be reasonable to 
expect Great Lakes to use the discretion referred to here in this situation. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. I think it is fair for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata refund. I say this 
because Great Lakes was effectively providing cover to Mr and Mrs H during the 
period between 1 February 2020 when their policy started, and the 25 March 2020 
when they first let it know they wished to cancel the policy. Whilst I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs H did not claim under their policy, during this period Great Lakes was bearing the 
risk that they may have taken a trip and had reason to make a claim due to an event 
insured by the policy. Or that they could have had reason had to cancel a future trip 
due to an event insured by the policy. And its fair that it should retain some premium 
for this.
Mr and Mrs H were given a discount at the point of sale. Ive seen the refund 
calculation formula used by Great Lakes, but I dont agree this leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on everything 
provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should calculate the refund by dividing 
the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by 
days not on risk.
I can see Mr and Mrs H feel very strongly that they should be given a monetary 
refund or their policy be suspended until they wish to travel again. But I think a 
voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. 
Mr and Mrs H chose to enter into a contract with Great Lakes paying a premium for a 
policy in return for Great Lakes accepting the risk that they may make a valid claim 
under the policy. The credit voucher represents the unused days of cover after their 
policy was cancelled. And means the risk Great Lakes accepted at their request is 
effectively moved to a future date.  
Mr and Mrs H have told us they have been quoted a higher price for insurance going 
forward. I accept that prices may increase. But I dont think this means Great Lakes 
offer is unreasonable. As Ive outlined, this offer is more than is required by both the 
relevant industry regulations and the policy terms.I can also see that Mr and Mrs H would prefer a voucher that they do not need to use 
immediately. I dont have the authority to tell Great Lakes what terms it should apply 
to its credit vouchers. But I have thought about whether the terms it has put forward 
are fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs H. Great Lakes offer does include the option 
of using the pro rata credit voucher towards the immediate purchase of a policy but 
then deferring the policy start date. So whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs future 
travel plans may still be uncertain, I dont think the terms of Great Lakes offer are 
unreasonably restrictive. 
Mr and Mrs H have made reference to Mr Hs age and medical conditions being a 
factor in their uncertainty over future travel. But I also have to bear in mind that Mr 
and Mrs H were willing and able to travel with their medical conditions at the time 
they purchased this policy. Our investigator did make enquiries as to whether their 
circumstances had changed significantly since the purchase of this policy. But I 
havent seen or heard any information to suggest they have.  
Putting things right
Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Hs voucher on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic annual multi-trip insurance policy 
from the date their policy was cancelled;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension from 
the date their policy was cancelled. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint to the extent that Ive outlined above. I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman