DRN-4335682
The complaint
Mr F complains that Embark Services Limited (Embark) caused unnecessary delays to the 
transfer of his pension from Embark to Hargreaves Lansdown (HL).
Mr F has stated that investment market movements during the delay period have caused 
financial loss. In addition, Mr F has said that the delay was a source of worry and stress.
What happened
On 13 May 2022 Mr F instructed HL to transfer his Standard Life pension to them.
Mr F queried the progress of the transfer with HL on 21 July 2022 and confirmed that whilst 
the pension was held within a Standard Life wrap, the funds were held / managed by 
Embark, and the cash element of the pension held with Hornbuckle Mitchell.
On 28 July 2022 HL replied and provided forms for Mr F to complete. These included 
confirmation on what funds had previously been crystallised. Having assessed the forms 
submitted by Mr F, HL contacted him on 5 August 2022 stating that the forms had been 
completed incorrectly.
Corrected forms were confirmed as being received by HL on 24 August 2022. HL also 
confirmed that they would request the transfer and implement any investment instructions 
that had been given by Mr F once the funds had been received. 
Embark contacted Mr F on 26 August 2022 to state that the paperwork that had been 
submitted was incomplete and requested the relevant sections be completed and returned.
On 8 September 2022 HL contacted Mr F to note that Embark had returned part of the 
transfer forms as they had not been completed correctly. Section 3 of the forms had been 
left blank and as such needed to be completed with an Investment Withdrawal Form also 
needed to be returned to Embark before the transfer could be processed.
Mr F contacted Embark the same day and submitted the relevant paperwork.
Given the time taken, and with the transfer still not completed, Mr F registered a complaint 
with Embark, this was subsequently referred to this service for consideration.
Embark confirmed the investment funds were received from Standard Life on 
10 October 2022 with these subsequently being received into the HL plan on 
12 October 2022.
On 8 November 2022 Embark issued their response to the complaint. They noted they had 
received the request to transfer on 25 August 2022 and had emailed Mr F the following day 
to request additional paperwork. Mr F had called on 8 September 2022 to chase progress 
with this call resulting in Mr F providing all the paperwork required.
Unfortunately, subsequent paperwork had been sent to Standard Life by Embark with 
electronic signatures rather than the wet signatures required. Embark did not provide correct 
paperwork to Standard Life until 21 September 2022. Embark accepted responsibility for this 
and stated that without this delay (and allowing for weekends) Standard Life should have 
been sent the relevant paperwork by 12 September 2022 with the investment instruction 
being received by 13 September 2022. As such the complaint was upheld with Embark 
confirming they would ask Standard Life to value the investments assuming the sale 
instruction had been received on 13 September 2022 to see if a loss had occurred.
Whilst Mr F had queried why a cash balance of around £15,000 had also been delayed 
Embark explained that their process was to send all cash in one payment once all 
investment sales had been completed, as such this element of Mr Fs complaint had not 
been upheld.
Mr F did not accept this response and asked this service to continue to investigate his 
complaint.
Our investigator looked into things and concluded that whilst there had been a delay, 
Embarks assessment of this delay was reasonable. The investigator noted that the initial 
delays to the transfer could not reasonably be attributed to Embark, as they were entitled to 
ensure all the relevant paperwork had been completed correctly before the transfer was 
initiated.
As such the investigator agreed with the seven working day delay period which had been 
identified by Embark. 
Whilst Mr F had also queried why the element of his cash pension had not been transferred 
sooner, the investigator explained that the process followed by Embark in sending one 
payment of all pension monies only after all investment sales had been completed was not 
uncommon. As such this element of the complaint was not upheld.
The investigator also did not agree that the fees levied by Embark during this period should 
be returned but did go on to make redress recommendations to both Mr F and Embark.
Whilst Mr F accepted the outcome, Embark have yet to respond to the findings issued.
As such, and to limit any further delays to this complaint, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As per the investigators findings I have concluded that Embarks assessment of the delays 
they are responsible for is reasonable. 
The timeline of events above shows Mr F commenced the process of transferring his 
Embark pension in May 2022. However, it also shows that it was not until September 2022 
that Embark themselves were provided with the relevant paperwork which would allow them 
to commence the transfer process. 
Whilst I fully appreciate the time between May and September 2022 would have been 
frustrating for Mr F, I do not consider it reasonable to hold Embark responsible for this time 
period. It was entirely appropriate for them to insist on fully completed transfer paperwork 
before they began working on the transfer. In this case the fully completed paperwork was 
available to Embark on 8 September 2022 and it is only from this point at which Embark 
could act on the transfer request.Whilst Embark then had all they needed, the correct subsequent paperwork allowing 
Standard Life to sell the underlying investments was not issued 21 September 2022, with 
Embark initially providing documentation with electronic rather than wet signatures.
Embark have accepted responsibility for this error and provided an alternative timeline 
showing that upon receipt of the required paperwork from Mr F on 8 September 2022, they 
should then have sent the correct paperwork to Standard Life by 12 September 2022, 
allowing the sale of Mr Fs investments the following day  13 September 2022.
Given the correct paperwork was not in fact sent until 21 September 202, Embark stated that 
this equates to a delay of seven working days. 
As per the investigators findings I have concluded the alternative timeline proposed by 
Embark is reasonable. From receipt of the correct transfer paperwork on 8 September 2022, 
this would allow two working days for Embark to process these and forward the relevant 
documentation to Standard Life.
As explained by our investigator there are no set rules which govern timescales in which 
pension providers must act in relation to a transfer such as this, however the Association of 
British Insurers did issue a consultation paper in 2016 which suggested a 48-hour standard 
for companies to carry out each step in the transfer process  a timeline which would 
support the outcome reached by Embark and endorsed by our investigator.
With regard to Mr Fs other complaint points, I also agree with the outcomes reached by the 
investigator.
It is common practice for pension providers to transfer all funds from a pension once all 
investment sales are made, with a separate transfer for any cash held only completed if a 
specific request for this is made by the policyholder. There is no evidence of any such 
request being made by Mr F or HL and as such I do not believe Embark acted 
inappropriately in waiting until the investments within the pension had been sold before 
transferring the total sum to HL in one go.
Whilst I have concluded that Embark did delay the transfer, I believe the charging of the 
transfer out fee by Embark is reasonable. This fee is noted within the policy documentation 
issued to Mr F and work had to be done to process the transfer. Whilst there was a delay 
attributable to Embark this is relatively limited when compared to the overall time taken as 
detailed above.
As such I have gone on to give redress instructions below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had the delays not occurred.
I take the view that Mr F would have sold the Standard Life investments seven working 
days earlier and consequently invested into the HL pension seven working days earlier. As 
such Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr F's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Embark do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, Embark must:Calculate the encashment value of the Standard Life investments had they been 
sold seven working days earlier. 
I note here that within their submissions to this service Embark have stated they 
have encountered difficulty in getting the relevant information from Standard Life 
that would enable such calculation to be performed. I have not been provided any 
evidence to show how many attempts have been made to gather the information 
required, however I have concluded Embark should continue to request such 
information. If required, a letter of authority should be sought from Mr F providing his 
permission for Embark to access his transaction history within Standard Life.
Obtain a notional value for the HL pension had this earlier encashment value been 
invested into the HL pension seven working days earlier, using the actual 
investments made by Mr F within the HL pension. 
If the notional value of the HL pension using the earlier encashment / re-investment 
values is higher than the current value of the HL pension, then a loss has occurred, 
and redress is payable to Mr F.
Embark should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Embark is unable to pay the total amount into Mr F's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience the delayed transfer caused to 
his retirement planning. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Embark deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Embark should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr F asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual value of the HL pension.
Fair valueThis is what the HL pension would be worth had the Standard Life investments been sold 
seven working days earlier and this sum re-invested into the HL investments seven working 
days earlier. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the HL pension should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Embark totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr Fs transfer from Embark to HL was delayed. This delay impacted both the sale 
value of the Standard Life investments and the purchase price of the HL investments. 
The redress instructions above look to address both issues to ensure Mr F is put as 
closely as possible to the position he would most likely now be in.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Embark Services Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Embark Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman