DRN-1250126
The complaint
Miss V says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Miss V bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Miss V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Vs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Vs complaint for the following reasons.
On the credit card application form, Miss V was given a yes or no choice about PPI. She 
ticked the yes box. So, I think Capital One made Miss V aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Capital One didn't recommend the PPI to Miss V so it didn't have to check if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss V about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been  including in relation to its cost. But Miss V doesn't appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover  and based on what I know about 
her circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. Nor do I think it was 
unaffordable. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Miss Vs comments, including what shes said about being wary of 
PPI due to a previous claim being declined. But these points dont change my conclusion. 
Its clear from the credit card application that Miss V selected PPI, which suggests she did 
want it at that time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman