DRN-4078404
The complaint
Mr H has complained about QIC Europe Ltd. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his home insurance policy following storm damage to his property. 
QIC sent its surveyor to check the claim. He attended the property and was satisfied that the 
damage to Mr Hs roof was storm damage related so QIC looked to settle the claim directly 
with Mr H. But Mr H wasnt able to repair his property for the amount QIC was looking to pay 
him in settlement of the claim. 
When Mr H raised this with QIC it subsequently turned down the claim. It sent a second 
surveyor (over seven months after the storm damage) who thought the roof damage was 
caused by wear and tear and maintenance issues that have been highlighted during the 
storms. It offered £350 by way of compensation for changing its mind and delaying matters 
but as Mr H didnt agree he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H and upheld his complaint. He considered the 
original surveyors report alongside the second site visit attendance and was persuaded by 
the first report which was far more detailed than the second which didnt give any detail or 
expand on the change in position. QIC responded with a more detailed desk assessment of 
the claim but our investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld.
As QIC didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to QIC, but Ill explain why.
What troubles me in this case is that QIC sent its surveyor originally who undertook a full 
onsite survey of the claim and he was satisfied the damage sustained to Mr Hs roof was 
storm damage related. So QIC was more than happy that the claim was one that should be 
met in line with the policy terms and conditions following the onsite survey and looked to 
settle the claim. But it only looked to decline the claim when Mr H questioned whether he 
was able to repair all the damage the storm caused for the amount QIC was willing to pay. 
This was after it undertook a further onsite visit. 
However, the report from this further visit is scant of detail and Mr H wasnt present at the 
time when I would expect him to be. And I would expect this report to be detailed and 
thorough given the change in stance and seven-month gap in assessment, not just a 
paragraph suggesting possible wear and tear. 
Plus, as the report identified I would expect a conversation to take place with Mr H at the 
time of inspection and photographic evidence to be provided evidencing its position. I cant 
be sure from this second report what was and wasnt considered and obviously any delay in 
repairing Mr Hs roof would clearly make matters worse, in relation to both internal and 
external damage. And this inspection took place over seven months after the storm damage, 
so I can understand why our investigator upheld this complaint. 
QIC has gone on to provide a more detail desk top assessment in recent times. And that 
report does identify some possible wear and tear but also says Returning to the prevailing 
conditions at the time of the claim, violent storm gusts in the region of 75mph are likely to 
have caused some damage. Given the passage of time I think QIC needs more here to 
support its position. Im surprised QIC hasnt gone back to the first surveyor and gained 
more detail from them as it is looking to change the position and decline the claim months 
after the first inspection. I havent seen anything to suggest the first surveyor has changed 
his mind or that he has been given the opportunity to comment on QICs change in position  
which is surprising given he was clear from his attendance around the time of claim that 
storm damage caused Mr Hs roof problems (not poor maintenance or wear and tear). 
As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for QIC to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. It should consider any direct consequential damages stemming from this claim and 
the delay in finalising. And I think the £350 compensation QIC has offered for the delay, 
stress, and inconvenience all this has caused Mr H seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd 
to settle the claim as outlined above and to pay £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman