DRN-3161486
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly added fees to his 
overdraft after irresponsibly providing it in the first place.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Santander needed to 
refund the extra interest, fees and charges added as a result of the overdraft limit increase in 
June 2017. Santander agreed but Mr C was unhappy at the compensation offered and so 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Mr C has been left with an outstanding balance even hes been refunded all of 
the extra interest, fees and charges applied from June 2017. So while Mr C has been left 
with a balance and he might be unhappy with this, Santander has done what Id normally 
expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case. Mr C says 
Santander should do something different here. He says Santander shouldnt have provided 
the overdraft in the first place and he wants more refunded and/or the balance written off. 
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. But what hes said is a reason for upholding his 
complaint in the first place, rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to 
putting things right in cases such as his. All the extra interest, fees and charges Santander 
shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So what Mr C is left with to 
repay are the funds which he used and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have 
left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr C spent them, I think its fair and reasonable 
to expect Mr C to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr C perhaps being unhappy at 
having a balance to repay is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual 
approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case. And I leave it 
up to Mr C to decide whether he wishes to accept Santanders offer.
Even though I think what Santander has already agreed to do is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case, Id nevertheless also like to remind it of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance should it choose to pursue the outstanding balance from Mr C and its the case 
that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman