DRN-3637734
The complaint
Mr G complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who declined his 
claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G made a claim following the theft of his mobile phone. During the investigation of the 
claim, Assurant asked a series of questions regarding the phones sim card use and 
specifically if the sim card had only been used in the phone that had been stolen from Mr G.
Assurant said that the answers that Mr G had given, had discrepancies, in that he told them 
that he hadnt used the sim in any other phone. But Mr G explained that he didnt understand 
what was being asked of him and later confirmed that he had used the sim in another phone. 
But had swapped the sim back into the phone that was stolen from him. So, at the time of 
the theft, the sim was in the stolen phone. Mr G also provided a proof of usage from his 
network provider that supported this. 
Assurant said that the evidence that it obtained showed that the sim card was last used in a 
different phone, prior to and following the theft. It also said that Mr G hadnt reported the theft 
to the police or got a crime reference number, as required under the terms and conditions of 
the policy. So, it declined Mr Gs claim. 
Mr G complained to Assurant. In its final response, it maintained that the correct decision 
had been made, given the discrepancies, which it said called into question the validity of the 
claim. Assurant also said that Mr G hadnt reported the theft of the phone to the police or 
obtained a crime reference number as per the policy terms and conditions. Mr G was given 
his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the evidence that Assurant had been given from Mr Gs network provider was that 
the sim had been used in two devices. And the last device that the sim had been used in 
wasnt the phone that was subject to the claim. She said that she didnt think that because 
Mr G hadnt reported the theft to the police was the strongest point, as Assurant had gone on 
to consider the claim. But she concluded that Assurant wasnt unreasonable to rely upon the 
information it had been provided from Mr Gs network provider to decline his claim. This 
information suggested that the sim had been used in another device, after the phone had 
been stolen.
Assurant accepted the view Mr G did not. He confirmed that on the day of the theft the sim 
had been in another phone, but he swapped that sim into the phone was that was later 
stolen that day. He also said that he had been very busy, and this was the reason why he 
hadnt reported the theft to the police, which he could now do. So, he asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mr G, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
Following the theft of his phone, Mr G made a claim with Assurant. During its investigations 
of the claim, Assurant requested further information from him. And because it said there 
were discrepancies in the information provided, it declined the claim. My task is to consider 
whether Assurant acted unreasonably when it relied on information provided by Mr G and his 
network provider. With this in mind, I have taken into consideration, the evidence provided 
by both parties as well as the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr G admitted that he had swapped the sim from the phone that had been stolen and put it 
into another device. His admission was made after Assurant had declined his claim. He said 
that the reason for this was that he misunderstood what was being asked of him. I have 
listened to the call recording between Mr G and Assurant, in which it asked questions 
regarding the use of the sim. I can understand why Mr G misunderstood what was being 
asked and I dont think his responses were intended to mislead. 
Nevertheless, Assurant has relied on additional information. The first relates to the policy 
terms and conditions. The policy terms state that one of Mr Gs obligations was to report the 
theft of the phone to the police and obtain a crime reference number. This was not done by 
Mr G. Mr G said that the reason for this was because he was too busy to report the theft to 
police. Thefts like this, can now be reported online 24/7, so I dont think that I am persuaded 
that Mr G wouldnt have had time to report the theft of the phone to the police. And obtain 
the crime reference number, as was required under the policy terms and conditions. 
Assurant also relied upon the information that Mr Gs network provider gave to it regarding 
the proof of usage. I have read this information and what is of note is that whilst there is 
evidence that the sim had been in the stolen phone on the day of the theft, the sim had also 
been in another device on the day of the theft and after the day of the theft. 
Mr G said that there had been a fault with the stolen phone, and he got this repaired. He 
provided evidence of the repair. He said that as he was without his phone, he used another 
device and had the sim in that device. Once he collected the repaired phone, he said he 
placed the sim in the phone. I accept that this was done as Mr G provided evidence that the 
sim had been in the stolen phone. But Mr G went on to say that the phone was later stolen 
with the sim in it. 
Assurant who had obtained information of usage from Mr Gs network provider, relied on the 
evidence from them, that showed that the sim was still in the other device, after the phone 
had been stolen.  
I have reviewed this evidence and I can see that the sim was in another device for around a 
week before Mr Gs phone was stolen. Presumably whilst Mr G was awaiting the repair of 
the phone that was stolen. On 8 March 2022 (the date of the theft), there is evidence that the 
sim was in the mobile phone that was stolen. But, as Mr G said that the sim was in the 
phone that was stolen, I wouldnt expect the sim to be in any other device following the theft. 
Having further reviewed the evidence, I can see that the sim was in the other device, after 
the theft. It is for this reason, that I am persuaded by Assurants argument that the sim was 
last used in the other device and not the stolen phone. Consequently, I dont think Assurant was unreasonable in relying on the evidence from Mr 
Gs network provider, as well as relying on the policy terms and conditions, when it decided 
to decline Mr Gs claim. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to Mr 
G, but I cant reasonably and fairly ask Assurant to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.  
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman