DRN-2940178
Complaint
Mr O has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) unfairly continued applying 
increased charges to his overdraft, after changes it made to its pricing structure, even 
though he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Os complaint and thought Halifax should have realised 
Mr Os overdraft had become unsustainable for him by July 2017 and so it needed to refund 
all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Os overdraft from this point. Halifax agreed 
but Mr O didnt and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, the amount Mr O will be left with an outstanding balance with a third-party debt 
purchaser even though hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied. So 
while Mr O has been left with a balance on his debt with the third-party and he might be 
unhappy with this, Halifax has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
I know Mr O is unhappy with his refund being capped from July 2017. But weve already 
explained that this is because he already complained about the fees added before then. And 
although Mr O may have entered into further correspondence with Halifax after its initial final 
response of June 2017, this didnt change the time limit. Equally, as Mr O didnt refer his 
initial complaint to us within six months of that final response, Im satisfied that our 
adjudicator was correct to conclude that we can only look at the charges added to Mr Os 
account from July 2017. 
I also think its important for me to point out that all the interest, fees and charges Halifax 
shouldnt have added have been removed from Mr Os outstanding balance. So what Mr O is 
left with to repay are the funds which he used and benefitted from. I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Mr O to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr O perhaps 
being unhappy at having a balance to repay, even after his complaint has been upheld, is in 
itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here, or that it means he 
hasnt benefitted from his complaint having been upheld as what he owes the third-party 
debt purchaser has reduced .
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr O is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, I leave it up to Mr O to decide whether 
he wishes to accept Halifaxs offer.
   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr O is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman