DRN-4445928
The complaint
Mrs P complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited hasnt offered a fair value for her 
car following an accident which led to it being written off. 
Mrs P is represented by Mr P in this matter. For ease, Ive referred to Mrs P throughout this 
decision.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mrs P insured her car with Advantage under a motor insurance policy. In March 2023, Mrs P 
was involved in a car accident. The car was subsequently deemed the car to be a total loss. 
Advantage offered £1,095 to settle the claim, less the excess. This was based on a valuation 
of this amount provided through a trade guides portal which also allows a consumer to 
upload photos of their vehicle to. It relied on this valuation to make its offer to Mrs P as none 
of the other motor trade valuation guides it usually uses had a valuation for Mrs Ps car. 
Mrs P wasnt happy, so she complained about the valuation. She feels £2,200-£2,300 would 
be an appropriate valuation. Advantage didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint and explained it 
wasnt persuaded by the adverts provided by Mrs P as these related to vehicles of a different 
age and mileage to her car.
Mrs P brought her complaint to our service for an independent review and said she feels 
shes being scammed as shes not being given what she paid for. An Investigator at this 
service looked into matters and thought the offer made by Advantage was fair. Theyd been 
able to obtain one valuation from a motor trade guide of £995 and Advantages offer was 
more than this. They also explained they didnt find the advert sent by Mrs P persuasive - it 
related to a car with a different age and mileage to hers.
Mrs P didnt agree. She referred to a site which gives a range for the value of her car of 
£1,165-£2,245. And, as her car wasnt at the lower end in terms of its condition, she 
considers this shows the offer is unreasonable. Mrs P explains shes only seeking a value 
which gives her a like for like replacement and would be willing for Advantage to buy one for 
her instead of giving her the cash settlement. Alternatively, she says Advantage should send 
her the adverts for cars like hers within the range of its offer.
The Investigator and Mrs P communicated about these matters, but the points raised didnt 
change the Investigators view. This matter has now been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must explain to Mrs P I consider the Investigator reached a fair outcome in 
this matter. So, I wont be asking Advantage to do anything to put things right. 
It may be helpful to explain that my role isnt to give an exact value of Mrs Ps car. Instead, 
my role is to decide whether Advantage has applied the policy terms and conditions when 
reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think it has. Ill explain why below. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle. The policy defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not 
necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
Insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and 
will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and 
the circumstances in which you bought it. 
This means Advantage will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
here, it has ultimately determined to be £1,095. Advantage relied on one valuation in light of 
the other trade guides not having additional valuations. We use a similar approach and the 
same trade guides to help decide if a settlement offer is fair when valuing second-hand 
vehicles. And we generally find the valuations given in these guides to be persuasive. 
I can see the valuation obtained by Advantage was for £1,095. And I note the Investigator 
was able to obtain one motor trade guide valuation for Mrs Ps car of £995 and they 
confirmed the other trade guides didnt give valuations for her car. The valuation obtained by 
the Investigator also referred to a car similar to Mrs Ps which had been advertised at the 
same price as Advantages offer.
Taking all this information together, Im satisfied Advantages offer for the market value of 
Mrs Ps car at the time directly before the loss was fair, according to the terms and 
conditions of the policy and our approach to complaints like this. It follows I dont require 
Advantage to increase this.
Im aware Mrs P says a similar car will cost a lot more to replace and she refers to adverts 
online in support of this. But I dont agree the evidence Ive seen shows this as they arent 
sufficiently similar to Mrs Ps car. So, having thought carefully about this, Im not persuaded 
the evidence shows Advantages offer  based on the highest valuation - wasnt a fair one.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but this ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with 
Advantage about the valuation of her car  can do for her. I acknowledge shes made 
suggestions for what Advantage should do such as buy her a similar car in lieu of a cash 
settlement. But its not obliged to do this under the policy terms. And, as I havent upheld this 
complaint, Im not asking it to take any steps in this matter.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman