DRN-1772661
The complaint
Ms H, who is represented by a claims management company (CMC), says 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms H opened a line of credit with Sunny in October 2014. She made six drawdowns from the 
facility between 25 October and 18 December 2014. I understand the total amount borrowed 
was £475. The drawdowns were repayable in monthly instalments, with the largest 
repayment (after the last drawdown) being about £157.
Sunny offered to partially uphold the complaint in its final response, in respect of the sixth 
and final drawdown. Ms H, via her CMC, then referred her complaint to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
I don't intend to comment on whether Sunny lent to Ms H irresponsibly. That's because
I think the offer Sunny made in its final response letter was fair if the lending was indeed 
irresponsible.
Sunny's offer was as follows:
"To put things right, we propose to do the following:
 Calculate the interest paid by you on your draws from your sixth draw onwards;
 As you did not repay more than you borrowed, there is no refund due;
 We note that you did not repay all of your loans and the outstanding balance(s) were sold 
to a third party debt purchaser. Assuming no further payments have been made towards 
these balances, we will contact the debt purchaser and arrange for any outstanding 
balances to be written off;
 Amend your credit file by removing any relevant loans/entries to reflect the
above."
Ms H responded to say she didn't think Sunny's offer was fair. But she hasn't said why she 
thinks it's unfair, despite her CMC asking for her comments this. I also note the settlement 
offered by Sunny is essentially the same as Ms H requested when her complaint was 
referred to this service.
From what I've seen, I think Sunny's offer is fair. Sunny has said Ms H repaid less than she 
borrowed. It says she borrowed £475 and repaid £93. Sunny's offer also indicates it will take 
into account any amounts paid to third parties, in case Ms H has paid more than this.So, from the information I have, it seems Ms H hasn't paid any interest and charges to 
Sunny because she's paid less than she borrowed. And Sunny has also offered to write off 
any outstanding balance - which from what I've seen may even include unpaid principal. 
This service would not normally ask a business to write off principal, so Sunny's offer may go 
even further than we'd normally ask. The offer to amend Ms H's credit file also fairly resolves 
any non-financial detriment Ms H may have suffered.
As Sunny's offer is in line with (and perhaps better than) the approach this service takes to 
putting things right for complaints of this type, I do not think it needs to do anything more. So 
my final decision is that Sunny's original offer, as set out in its final response to this 
complaint, is fair.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, in the sense that the offer made by Sunny in its final response 
letter was a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman