DRN-4514485
The complaint
Miss S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd irresponsibly gave her an overdraft she couldnt 
afford to repay.
What happened
In March 2021, Miss S applied for a current account with Monzo and requested an overdraft 
facility on the account of £300. Monzo accepted her application for the account and 
overdraft. Miss S applied for an increase to the overdraft limit one month later to £750. This 
application was also accepted.
Miss S got in contact with Monzo in April 2021, the day after her overdraft limit had been 
increased. She said she had been the victim of a scam and a payment she had made as 
part of that scam had caused her to incur charges and a larger than expected balance on 
her account. She asked for a temporary increase to her overdraft to £1,000.
Monzo said it couldnt offer her a further overdraft increase but asked her for more details 
about her financial circumstances as she had indicated she was experiencing some short 
term financial difficulty. After a number of discussions throughout early May 2021, Monzo 
agreed a repayment plan with Miss S whereby the overdraft limit would be gradually reduced 
by £50 each month.
There was no activity on the account throughout May, June and July 2021. From 
August 2021 onwards, Miss S kept to the agreed £50 arrangement and her overdraft usage 
reduced by the agreed amount until May 2022. Overdraft usage charges were suspended 
during this time. In April 2022, Miss S asked for the arrangement to be paused by one month 
because she had an unexpected bill. A few months later Miss S stopped using the account 
and it was eventually defaulted with an outstanding balance of around £330.
I sent Miss S and Monzo my provisional decision on 28 November 2023. I explained why 
I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Prior to lending to Miss S, Monzo needed to ensure it completed proportionate 
affordability checks. What is considered proportionate will vary with each lending 
decision as there isnt a set list of checks that had to be completed every time. In 
deciding what would be proportionate, Monzo needed to take into account things 
such as (but not limited to): the amount borrowed, the size of any reasonable regular 
repayments and the consumers circumstances.
As part of both applications Miss S declared she was employed full-time and living at 
home with her parents. The amount she declared as her annual income was £15,000 
per year on the first application and £20,000 per year on the second application. 
However, from what Ive seen of Miss S income on her account statements, the 
higher figure she declared appears to be broadly accurate.
Monzo also completed a credit check which showed that Miss S existing credit 
commitments were well maintained with no recent history of repayment difficulty. Her 
existing monthly credit commitments were recorded as less than £50 per month. 
Monzo also used statistical data to estimate Miss S likely essential living costs which 
it calculated to be around £450 per month.
Ive not seen anything to demonstrate that Monzo attempted in any way to verify the 
income Miss S had declared on her applications. Given the large discrepancy 
between the figures she gave just one month apart, I would consider that 
proportionate checks on the second overdraft application ought to have included 
some attempt to verify what Miss S had declared. However, as Ive stated above, it 
appears Miss S income was broadly in line with what she had declared on that 
second application. This means that even if Monzo had done more, it wouldnt have 
revealed any different information.
Taking into account what evidence and information was (and should have been) 
available to Monzo prior to each lending decision, I dont think there was anything 
that ought to have caused it concern about Miss S ability to repay an overdraft of up 
to £750. I therefore dont think it acted unfairly when it lent to Miss S.
Ive also considered whether throughout the lending relationship Monzo acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Miss S. Having done so, I think it did.
As Ive set out in the background to this decision, Miss S contacted Monzo in late 
April 2021 to say she had been the victim of a scam, and then, through further 
probing by Monzo, that she was in short term financial difficulty. Miss S initially 
explained that she would be able to repay most of her current overdrawn balance 
once she got paid in around a week. Over the coming week Monzo tried to get a 
better understanding of Miss S finances to see if it could do more to assist her. 
However, Miss S then said she would pay the overdraft off in full by the end of June.
Miss S then told Monzo that she had been temporarily signed off work and therefore 
her income was reduced. She asked what help Monzo could provide regarding her 
overdraft. Monzo asked Miss S to complete an income and expenditure document so 
that it could assess what her financial circumstances were. Miss S completed the 
form but filled out her debts inaccurately. Monzo asked for clarity around these debts, 
but Miss S didnt respond for a month. During this time Monzo had paused overdraft 
charges.
When the overdraft charges began debiting again, Miss S got in touch with Monzo. 
She said by the end of June she would be receiving her usual income again and 
would begin to reduce the overdraft by £100 each month. A few days later she said 
she could reduce it by £50 per month.
Monzo said this was something it could potentially agree to. It asked Miss S to 
complete an updated income and expenditure assessment and for further information 
about her circumstances. The payment arrangement was agreed between Miss S 
and Monzo to begin in August 2021. While Miss S was on the payment arrangement 
Monzo agreed to freeze all overdraft interest and charges. Miss S began paying 
down her overdraft as agreed, and the limit was reduced by £50 each month.
Having reviewed the correspondence between Miss S and Monzo during this time, I 
think Monzo acted fairly when treating Miss S financial difficulty. It put in place an 
affordable arrangement to bring down her overdraft borrowing and also agreed to 
waive all charges while she was on the plan. I dont think it needed to do more at that 
time.Miss S got in touch with Monzo in late April 2022 as she had received an unexpected 
bill and was therefore unable to reduce her overdraft by the planned £50 the 
following month. I can see that like the previous year, Monzo tried to assist Miss S by 
obtaining more detailed information about her circumstances and finances and it 
agreed to re-start her overdraft reduction plan a month later, albeit without the freeze 
on overdraft charges.
Given that at this time Monzo could see that Miss S salary had been coming into this 
account (it had previously been paid into a different bank account), and that each 
month her salary comfortably cleared the overdraft in full, I dont think its actions 
were unreasonable. It was still allowing Miss S to reduce her overdraft limit each 
month by £50, but there wasnt anything to indicate that the overdraft fees and 
interest (of around £7 per month) would cause her any difficulty.
A few months later Miss S stopped using the account and left an overdrawn balance 
of around £330. Within a month, Monzo had stopped applying any further overdraft 
interest and fees and a little later, it defaulted the account due to non-payment. As 
Miss S stopped communicating with Monzo and stopped making payments towards 
the account, I dont think Monzo acted unfairly when it did so.
Neither Miss S nor Monzo responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision with any further information or 
evidence, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion. I therefore dont think Monzo 
acted unfairly in lending to Miss S. I also dont think it acted unfairly towards her when she 
was in financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman