DRN-3956045
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc removed her overdraft limit without notifying 
her.
What happened
Miss P had an arranged overdraft limit of £1,500 on her current account. She made a 
purchase of around £1,400 on 21 July 2022 which took her account into her arranged 
overdraft. She set up a standing order of £50 per month from another bank account to clear 
the balance she owed in instalments.
On 2 September 2022, Miss P received a text message from Barclays letting her know that 
theyd removed her arranged overdraft limit. Miss P complained that Barclays didnt do 
enough to notify her and shouldve sent her a text message before removing her overdraft. 
She was also concerned about her credit score being impacted and whether shed have to 
pay a higher interest rate.
Barclays said they wrote to Miss P on 13 July 2022 to inform her of their intention to remove 
the overdraft facility from the account on 31 August 2022. They explained they dont send 
this type of information via text message as theyre legally required to inform Miss P of their 
decision in writing. They didnt agree that they gave insufficient notice to Miss P. They asked 
her to contact their collections team to come to an arrangement to repay the overdraft.
Unhappy with this, Miss P referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said that Barclays had notified Miss P that they were removing 
the overdraft. Miss P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that since raising the complaint with our service, Miss P has experienced difficulties 
with getting in contact with the collections team at Barclays to agree a repayment plan.
In summary, Miss P hasnt been prepared to accept incoming calls from the collections team 
as shes unhappy with their caller verification processes. This is due to her concerns over 
scam calls and not being comfortable with sharing personal information.
Miss P didnt want to make outgoing calls to the collections team directly as she didnt have 
time to wait on hold. She was willing to visit a branch for no longer than 30 minutes as she 
only gets free parking for this amount of time.
Im pleased to see that our investigator was able to work with both parties and facilitate a call 
to Miss P from the collections team. Miss P has told us that she has come to an 
arrangement which shes happy with. 
However, I wont be commenting on these issues within this decision, Ill only be focusing on 
the complaint Miss P raised with Barclays and then our service on 21 September 2022  that 
Barclays failed to notify her about their decision to remove her arranged overdraft facility. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Ps account says that Barclays can end an arranged 
overdraft at any time and for any reason. They also say Miss P will be given at least 30 days 
written notice of any changes to her overdraft limit.
Ive looked at the letter Barclays send to Miss P on 13 July 2022. They explained that its 
important their customers arent borrowing more than they can afford, and to help Miss P 
stay in control of her borrowing, theyd reviewed her overdraft limit. They thought her 
overdraft limit might be set too high. And since she hadnt used the overdraft limit in the last 
12 months, they were planning to remove it on 31 August 2022.
Its unfortunate Miss P didnt receive this letter. But Barclays have provided evidence to 
show they sent it. I havent seen any evidence of any printing issues with the letter being 
sent to Miss P, as shes suggested. And I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible if Miss P 
didnt receive the letter due to other external factors, such as issues with the postal service 
in her area. 
Although Miss P says she prefers to receive communication via text message, Barclays 
have explained theyre required to send some information in writing. Im satisfied the terms 
and conditions require Barclays to give Miss P 30 days written notice if they decide to end 
her overdraft. 
Also, the terms and conditions explain that Barclays will contact Miss P using the details they 
have for her which could be on her mobile or landline phone, email or at her home or 
correspondence address. 
So, sending a letter was a communication method Barclays had available to use. Barclays 
sent the letter to the postal address Miss P had provided to them. And they werent required 
to also send Miss P a text message regarding this.
All things considered, Barclays were entitled to remove Miss Ps arranged overdraft limit and 
they gave her 30 days written notice of this change. Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. 
Barclays system notes show they sent Miss P a letter on 17 September 2022, after the 
arranged overdraft limit was removed. They asked her to make payment to clear the 
overdrawn balance. If she couldnt make the payment, they asked her to contact them to 
discuss options. They also gave information about where she could seek free help and 
advice. This is what Id expect them to do under these circumstances. 
I know Miss P was concerned about paying higher interest rates due to her overdraft limit 
being removed. Barclays have confirmed that they dont apply additional interest and 
charges when a customer is overdrawn without an overdraft limit. So, Miss P shouldnt 
expect to pay anything more in interest and charges than if she still had her arranged 
overdraft limit. Miss P has also mentioned that her credit score has been impacted. Since Miss P borrowed 
money using her overdraft, its not unexpected that this would affect her credit score. But this 
doesnt mean that Barclays have done something wrong.
Barclays are required to report true and accurate information to credit reference agencies 
about the performance of an account. This means Barclays have to record the borrowing on 
Miss Ps credit file. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Barclays have reported 
incorrect information on Miss Ps credit file. So, I cant agree Barclays have treated Miss P 
unfairly.
Miss P has made the point that the collections team told her she couldve still called Barclays 
after shed used her overdraft and asked them not to remove the overdraft limit. I dont 
disagree that Miss P had the option to ask Barclays to reconsider their decision. But there 
was no guarantee that Barclays wouldve agreed to Miss Ps request.
I say this because, in the letter of 13 July 2022, Barclays told Miss P that she could contact 
them within 30 days to ask them to review their decision, if she still needed an overdraft limit 
and could provide further information on her income, borrowing, commitments etc.
Ultimately, this doesnt change the outcome here because Miss P didnt contact Barclays 
within 30 days of the letter and her overdraft limit was removed on 31 August 2022. I dont 
think Barclays had to also make Miss P aware of their decision to remove her overdraft limit 
again after she used the overdraft. In their letter of 13 July 2022, Barclays had already 
provided information about what would happen if Miss P used the overdraft before the limit 
was removed. 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays havent treated Miss P unfairly and I wont be asking them to 
do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman