DRN-3648105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC allowed a third-party to re-instate a cancelled direct 
debit and collect an unauthorised payment for £100.88.
What happened
Mr S cancelled his direct debit on 12 April 2021 due to an ongoing dispute with his utility 
provider, but it was reinstated by the supplier in May 2021 and a payment was taken on 23 
June 2021. The direct debit was cancelled again on 25 June 2021. A direct debit indemnity 
claim was subsequently raised by Lloyds but successfully challenged by the supplier on the 
grounds funds were owed.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint saying their direct debit indemnity claim had 
been unsuccessful as the supplier had evidenced it had sent Mr and Mrs S a letter 
confirming a direct debit would be taken. It advised them to contact the supplier if they 
wanted to dispute this agreement. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this response. They want Lloyds to return the payment of 
£100.88, apologise for allowing this to happen and compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator issued two views. I will summarise his most recent as that is the current 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint by this service. He upheld the complaint. And said 
whilst the set-up of the direct debit in May without Mr Ss authority would need to be raised 
with the supplier as it was responsible for that, not Lloyds, he felt Lloyds ought to have been 
able to make a successful direct debit indemnity claim. He said the direct debit guarantee 
says the following in relation to cancelled mandates:
Money shouldnt be collected from your account after you have cancelled the Direct Debit 
and, under the scheme rules, an organisation would have to obtain your authority to 
reinstate a cancelled instruction. 
And he thought this to be relevant in this case whether the supplier had re-instated the old 
direct debit or created a new one. He said the evidence from the supplier showing it wrote 
confirming a direct debit payment of £100.88 was to be collected monthly did not evidence 
the supplier had obtained Mr Ss authority to either re-instate or establish a new order. He 
concluded Lloyds must refund the payment and in turn recover the funds from the supplier 
under a new direct debit indemnity claim. For not having done this properly previously, and 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience this caused, he said Lloyds must also pay       
Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation. 
Lloyds disagreed with this assessment. It said Mr S had not cancelled the direct debit until 
25 June 2021, so the bank was bound by industry rules to uphold the suppliers challenge to 
the claim. It argued no bank error has occurred. But it later sent evidence to show the direct 
debit had been cancelled on 12 April 2021, and that the May re-instatement was done by the 
supplier using the same payment instruction reference. It explained that due to the way this 
supplier sets up its direct debits electronically it is unable to add a direct debit block. 
Mr and Mrs S replied saying in addition to the refund of £100.88 they want £250 
compensation, for Lloyds to follow up with the supplier as to why an unapproved direct debit 
was honoured and then justified - with all correspondence shared with both Mr S and the 
regulator, and a full apology.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my focus is on what I think the key issues are and how to remedy any 
errors. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal 
alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I am upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has now provided two separate pieces of evidence that confirm the direct debit was 
cancelled on 12 April 2021. Mr S has also provided emails to the supplier that confirm this. 
Whilst the supplier sent Mr S notification of his new direct debit amount by post on 22 May 
2021 and by email on 20 May 2021, Mr S replied by email on 27 May 2021 saying Further to 
my May 18 email you now expect me to subscribe to a direct debit of over £1,200 per 
annum, an increase over 250% from your projected £458 of only two months ago. Clearly 
this is unacceptable and will not be agreed. So he had clearly not given consent. 
This means when a payment was taken in June under that same payment instruction 
reference, and Mr S got in touch to dispute that transaction, I find Lloyds ought to have 
refunded it to Mr and Mrs S and then recovered the money from the utility supplier under the 
section of the direct debit guarantee that relates to cancelled mandates, as set out above. As 
it failed to do this, it must now take that step.
I have found no grounds however to increase the compensatory award from £100. I have 
considered the impact of the banks failing on Mr and Mrs S, and find the investigators 
recommendation to be reasonable given the scope of the issue.
I feel Mr Ss request is fair that Lloyds acknowledge its error and so send him a letter of 
apology. But I will not be instructing it to take any further action. It has now explained that the 
way this supplier sets up direct debits electronically prevents blocks from being added. 
Whilst I anticipate Mr S will not be satisfied with this as an explanation, it is a systemic issue 
and so is not something this service has the power to instruct the bank to look into. We 
consider individual complaints, whether the bank has made an error and if so how it should 
put things right. It is the role of the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) to review 
policies, processes and systems across the industry.    
Putting things right
Lloyds should refund the £100.88 and process a new direct debit indemnity claim, and pay 
Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman