DRN-3320616
The complaint
Miss S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined her claim for flood 
damage under her Landlords buildings insurance policy after telling her that her policy would 
cover the damage. Miss S also complains that Ageas loss adjuster told her arrange 
alternative accommodation for her tenant which was also not covered under the policy. 
What happened
In late June 2021, following a storm, Miss Ss tenanted property suffered flood damage when 
water entered the property.
Miss S reported the claim to Ageas, with whom she held Landlords buildings insurance. It 
initially told her that her policy provided cover for storm and flood damage and instructed a 
loss adjuster to assess the damage.
Miss S said that the loss adjuster told her she could arrange alternative accommodation for 
her tenant. So she booked and paid for accommodation for three weeks, expecting to be 
reimbursed.
After the loss adjuster had assessed the damage, he considered that the likely cause of the 
flood was that storm drains had become inundated following a period of torrential rain. The 
loss adjuster referred Ageas to an endorsement against Storm or flood within the policy. 
And asked it if this meant the claim should be denied. Ageas referred the claim to their 
underwriters who confirmed that the claim should be denied based on the endorsement. 
They said that the endorsement effectively removed all cover under the policy wording for 
claims caused by storm or flood, regardless of the underlying circumstances.
Ageas then told Miss S that as her policy had an endorsement about storm and flood 
damage, her policy didnt cover the claim. Ageas acknowledged that its call handler had told 
Miss S to look into booking her tenant a hotel for a night or two to allow the loss adjuster 
time to review the damage. 
Miss S complained to Ageas about the following:
- the initial reporting of the call and the advice provided 
- that the loss adjuster had advised her to book alternative accommodation 
- that her policy should cover her damage claim 
- that her policy should cover her for loss of rent, as the property was uninhabitable 
due to storm.
In its final response letter, Ageas partly upheld the complaint. It agreed that its call handler 
didnt make Miss S aware of the endorsement. It also acknowledged that itd suggested that 
Miss S place her tenant in a hotel for a night or two. Ageas offered to pay for one nights 
accommodation costs if proof of payment could be provided. Ageas said itd found no 
evidence that the loss adjuster had given Miss S approval to book three weeks 
accommodation. But said that if Miss S could provide evidence of this it would be 
considered. Ageas maintained that its decision to decline the claim based on the 
endorsement had been fair. And said that as the cause of the loss of rent was the flooding, 
which had been fairly declined, they couldnt provide cover for it.
Miss S was unhappy with Ageass response to her complaint. So she complained again. She 
asked Ageas to cover the cost of the three weeks accommodation. And the cost of the 
restoration assessment shed initially arranged. Miss S said she couldnt prove the loss 
adjuster had told her to go ahead with organising the accommodation. But asked it to 
consider why she would pay for the accommodation for her tenant when she wasnt legally 
obliged to if shed had no assurance of getting her money back. Miss S also felt that the 
wording of the policy was misleading. 
Unhappy, Miss S brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that the complaint be upheld. She felt that Ageas had fairly declined the 
claim for flood damage. But considered that it should increase its offer from one night of 
accommodation to two nights. She said Ageas should add 8% simple interest to the payment 
for two nights accommodation.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
Ill explain why.
Should the claim have been covered?
The loss adjuster advised Ageas that the damage occurred following a period of prolonged 
rain. He felt this had caused the storm drains to become inundated, which meant that water 
entered Miss Ss property at ground level.
Although storm damage is often covered by insurance policies, Miss Ss policy had an 
endorsement which effectively removed all cover under the policy for claims caused by 
storm or flood.
I have to consider whether Ageas decided the claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. And whether it came to a fair and reasonable decision when it declined the claim. 
The policy schedule which was issued to Miss S has a number of endorsements. On page 2 
of the schedule it states: There are endorsements applying to this policy, see attached 
endorsement sheet. And on page 5 it covers the Landlords+ General Flood Exclusion.
The schedule states that under the Flood Exclusion the policy will not pay for loss or 
damage:
1. by subsidence ground heave or landslip except as covered under subsidence peril
2. to gates hedges fences drives or paths
3. to radio or television aerials4. caused by rising ground water levels
5. caused by or attributable to inadequate maintenance of the Insured Property
6. caused by frost
7. caused by:
the escape of water from the normal confines any natural or artificial water course lake 
reservoir canal or dam or inundation from the sea whether resulting from storm or otherwise
So damage in relation to storm or flood is not covered by the policy in these scenarios. As 
the rainwater caused the groundwater level to rise, the policy doesnt cover this flood 
damage under part 7. above.
Miss S said she wasnt aware of the endorsement. But I consider that it is relatively 
prominent on the policy schedule. And clearly worded. I also note that the same 
endorsement had been in place for the policy year prior to the one in which Miss S made the 
declined claim. 
Miss S also said that the policy document said that cover would be provided for flood 
damage. So she doesnt accept that her claim shouldnt be covered. But the policy document 
also defines Endorsement as: A variation in the terms of the Policy. And the policy 
document also states, on page 3: The Policy, your Schedule and any Endorsement pages 
should be read together as one document. Taking all of the documentation into account, I 
consider that Ageas provided clear information about the endorsements on the policy. So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold them responsible for Miss S not being aware of them.
In view of this endorsement I consider that in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
Ageas is entitled to decline any claim in which damage is caused by the peril of flooding 
caused by either storm or flood. Although I understand that heavy rain caused the drains to 
overflow, I consider that Ageas acted fairly when it declined this claim in respect of any 
damage caused by the flooding.
I appreciate that this will have been an extremely distressing incident for Miss S. However, I 
cant fairly say that Ageas acted unfairly when it declined the claim.
Does Ageass error mean that it cant rely on the endorsement?
Its not in dispute that the call handler incorrectly told Miss S that her claim would be 
covered. And while this service takes into account the law, we ultimately decide cases based 
on what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each case. And when 
a financial business has made an error, our aim is to (as far as possible) place the 
complainant in the position they wouldve been in, had it not been for that error.
Given the mistake Ageas call handler made, I consider that it would only be unfair for Ageas 
to rely on the endorsement to decline the claim if Miss S had suffered a detriment as a result 
of Ageas actions. 
Miss S feels that she has suffered a detriment. She paid for three weeks accommodation for 
her tenant - that she said she didnt legally have to pay for - because her claim was initially 
accepted by the call handler. And because she felt the loss adjuster had approved the cost 
of accommodation shed booked. She also considers that the call handler told her the 
restoration visit would be covered.Regarding the three weeks accommodation Miss S booked and paid for, the loss adjuster 
said that Miss S had asked him what he thought was the best type of accommodation for the 
tenant. He said he told her that before he could provide specific advice he needed to attend 
the property and report back to the insurers. And although he did make a suggestion, he 
said he didnt approve costs for this at any stage.
Ive not being able to confirm exactly what was said between Miss S and the loss adjuster. 
But I havent seen any evidence to confirm that the loss adjuster agreed to cover 
accommodation costs. Normal practice in cases like this one is for the loss adjuster to review 
the damage and contact the underwriter for approval of any repair or associated costs. 
Ageas has confirmed that this is the approach it takes. Therefore, based on what Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded that the loss adjuster approved the accommodation costs.
Ive carefully considered if Ageas call handlers mistake led to a detriment for Miss S. 
From the evidence Ive seen, and the phone call Ive listened to, the call handler didnt tell 
Miss S that the restoration visit would be covered. She explicitly said she didnt know 
whether it would be covered or not. And went on to explain that Ageas loss adjuster would 
have to assess the damage. I also note that the call handler told Miss S that Ageas would be 
able to sort out the alternative accommodation her tenant needed. But she told Miss S to find 
somewhere for the night. And told her to: act as if youre not insured. From the evidence 
Miss S has shared with this service, she arranged and paid for three weeks accommodation 
for her tenant on 29 June 2021. This was the day after shed first made her claim. But it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold Ageas responsible for all of this outlay. I say 
this because even though the call handler was wrong to tell Miss S her claim was covered, 
she told her to book accommodation for one night. The fact that Miss S actually booked 
three weeks accommodation was her decision. I understand that Miss S felt that Ageas 
would pay for the accommodation when she booked it. But she wasnt told to do this. So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Ageas to cover the full cost of the alternative 
accommodation Miss S decided to book.
I acknowledge that Miss S was in a very difficult situation. I understand that Miss S considers 
that she had no legal obligation to pay for replacement accommodation for her tenant. But 
she was considering his needs when she booked three weeks accommodation. But, despite 
Miss Ss position that she didnt legally need to provide replacement accommodation for her 
tenant, it was still her choice to do so. I dont consider that she wouldve acted differently if 
Ageas had correctly declined her claim from the start. I say this because she wouldve still 
had a tenant who needed alternative accommodation. And Ageas call handler only told her 
to arrange accommodation for one or two nights. She even told Miss S to act as if youre not 
insured.  Therefore I agree with our investigator that its fair to ask Ageas to cover two 
nights accommodation costs, based on what the call handler said to Miss S. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Ageas fairly declined the claim for flood damage to the 
property. And therefore the claim for loss of rent. Ive found no evidence that the loss 
adjuster approved the booking for three weeks accommodation. However, because of what 
Ageass call handler told Miss S, I consider that Ageas should pay for two nights 
accommodation. It should add 8% simple interest to this payment, from the date the 
payment was made until the date of settlement.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to reimburse Miss S for two nights accommodation. As Miss S has provided 
evidence that the three weeks accommodation cost £2,179, Ageas should pay her 2/21 of 
this amount, which is £207.52. Ageas should add 8% simple interest to this payment, from 
the 29 June 2021 when Miss S made the payment, until the date of settlement.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited should take the actions noted in the 
Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman