DRN-3801595
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited unfairly recorded late payment markers against 
her account.
What happened
Mrs M complained to Vanquis after finding out that her account debt was returned to 
Vanquis by a third-party debt collector. Mrs M is unhappy that Vanquis didnt notify her 
because she ended up missing repayments that were due and late payment markers were 
recorded against her account.
In its response, Vanquis explained that it wouldnt have notified Mrs M that her account had 
been passed back. Vanquis pointed out that it had sent Mrs M multiple statements around 
the time, setting out the repayments that were due. Mrs M says she didnt receive all the 
statements and adds that Vanquis only gave her a short period of time to make the first 
repayment, after her account was returned to the lender.
Remaining unhappy, Mrs M asked this service to review her complaint. She wants Vanquis 
to remove the late payment markers and pay her compensation for the distress shes 
experienced. Our investigator concluded that Vanquis acted fairly. 
Mrs M didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators opinion that Vanquis has acted fairly  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ms debt was passed back to Vanquis by the third-party debt collector - I can see Mrs M 
was sent a letter from the third-party in October 2021 advising her of this. Although it 
wouldve been good customer service for Vanquis to advise Mrs M separately, theres 
nothing in the agreement between the lender and Mrs M that obliges Vanquis to have done 
so. 
Even though Vanquis didnt specifically notify Mrs M that the debt had been passed back, I 
think its general administration of her account was enough to make her reasonably aware of 
this change. I say this because Vanquis says it sent Mrs M statements in October and 
November 2021, advising her of the repayments that were due. Ive seen copies of each, 
and both advise that a repayment is due by a certain date. Vanquis also sent Mrs M an 
arrears notice in November 2021. In my opinion, I think this wouldve made Mrs M 
reasonably aware that Vanquis is managing the account again and that she needed to make 
the repayments by a certain deadline. Ive also seen an email Mrs M sent to Vanquis in 
September 2021, enquiring about her account appearing as live on her credit report. So I 
think its likely Mrs M was aware that something had changed. 
Mrs M says she didnt receive at least one of the statements Ive referred to. Ive looked at 
copies of all the statements Vanquis says it sent. I can see that all of these are correctly 
addressed, and Ive seen nothing that suggests any mail was returned as undelivered, or 
that Mrs M experienced problems receiving her mail around the time. Vanquis also recently 
confirmed that these statements were mailed to Mrs M.
Moreover, as per Mrs Ms email to Vanquis in September, it seems to me that she was 
aware that the account was live again. And Im satisfied that Mrs M wouldve been 
reasonably aware that a debt remained. So I think Vanquis did enough to notify Mrs M that 
she needed to make the repayments that were due.
Mrs M says that Vanquis didnt give her enough time to make a repayment before the 
relevant deadline. She points to the letter from the third-party debt collector that was sent to 
her only a few days before the repayment deadline of 1 November. Although I empathise 
with Mrs M, as I pointed out earlier, Vanquis had sent her a statement around four weeks 
before the repayment was due. So Im satisfied that the lender gave her a reasonable period 
to make this repayment. 
Vanquis has a duty to report accurate information to credit reference agencies. As I 
explained, Vanquis took reasonable steps to notify Mrs M that repayments were due. Mrs M 
didnt make these repayments on time, so I think it was reasonable for Vanquis to have 
reported these as late payments.
For these reasons, Ive decided that Vanquis acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to remove 
the late payment markers.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman