DRN-3079565
The complaint
Ms N complains Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB) have provided poor customer service and kept 
her waiting for an unreasonable length of time over the telephone. 
What happened
Ms N says she has had a series of issues with ARB. Firstly, Ms N  says she was refused a 
hard token for her bank account with them, secondly she was kept waiting for an 
unreasonable length of time when attempting to deal with her problems. In addition, Ms N 
says while on the telephone to ARB she overheard the bank details of another customer, 
and finally Ms N says ARBs banking app doesnt work and prevented her gaining access to 
her funds over a bank holiday weekend. 
Ms N says she wants ARB to provide her with a hard token as she requested, improve their 
banking app, ensure the security of their customers information is improved, make sure 
ARBs staff are better trained and for ARB to increase their offer of compensation of £15, for 
the poor customer service she experienced. 
ARB says their banking app does work and Ms N had logged on previously, and 
improvements to the app are ongoing. ARB says on some occasions given the close 
proximity of staff in their call centre, some conversations can be overheard but they do take 
steps to mitigate this as much as possible. ARB says the hard token is only available to 
those customers who dont have a compatible smart phone for its banking app. ARB feel the 
compensation offered to Ms N for the problems she experienced with the banking app was 
sufficient.
Ms N wasnt happy with ARBs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt the compensation offered for the issues concerning the banking app was 
reasonable. The investigator didnt feel he could tell ARB to change its own rules about 
whom should be eligible for a hard token. The investigator didnt feel the length of time Ms N 
was kept on the phone was unreasonable, bearing in mind this was at the time of Covid 
pandemic. The investigator accepted that while Ms N may have overheard details of other 
customers bank details, this wasnt in itself a breach of security and had no direct impact on 
Ms N. The investigator believed the level of compensation offered by ARB was sufficient 
here. 
Ms N didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms N when she says she experienced a 
number of issues with ARBs service when calling them and when she tried to use their 
online banking facility, she says it didnt work. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
ARB have treated Ms N fairly and if they were at fault for the various issues she has raised 
and if the compensation offered to her was sufficient. 
When coming to a full and impartial decision, the first thing to say is I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike.
Ms N has raised a number of points over the poor service ARB have provided her, and I will 
comment on these individually. 
Ms N says she was kept waiting for a considerable length of time when she telephoned ARB 
in March 2020. From the information I have seen this call was made by Ms N, following a call 
she had received from ARB, to discuss her request for a hard token device for secure 
banking authentication purposes. This telephone call was made because Ms N had 
previously refused to provide security details over the telephone when ARB originally called 
her, as she was uncertain of the authenticity of the caller. Ms N has complained to ARB they 
shouldnt have made the call in the first place, as its contrary to what they tell their 
customers about divulging personal details when receiving calls from the bank. I understand 
the point Ms N  makes here, but that said I am satisfied ARB like all banks are suggesting 
that its customers should be careful when providing any security information over the 
telephone, but thats not to say they cant from time to time, contact their customers by 
telephone if they feel the need to deal with customer service issues. Having said that, Ms N 
was entitled to refuse to provide any personal details if she was unsure who was calling her, 
as she did here.                                             
I have listened to the call Ms N refers to, in which she says she had been waiting for 25 
minutes to get through and felt that was unreasonable. The 50 minutes Ms N refers to in her 
complaint to this service, seems to take into account the time she was on the call, and not 
simply the waiting time to get through. Nevertheless, either way, Ms N feels the length of 
time was unacceptable. 
While I can understand it would have been frustrating for Ms N to have to wait to get 
through, however long that took, its fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic here meant 
that many businesses faced problems that resulted in inconvenience to its customers, so its 
important that this is taken into account when trying to establish what is fair and reasonable. 
And here, while Ms N has experienced some inconvenience waiting to be put through to an 
advisor, I am satisfied, in relation to this particular phone call in March 2020, this was 
unavoidable due to the problems caused by the pandemic.
Ms N during that phone call is directed to use the online banking app, but she insisted she 
wanted a hard token and she should be able to decide how to operate her bank account. 
While Ms N says there is nothing on ARBs website to say she isnt eligible for this facility, 
during that call it is explained to her, ARB only make this token available to customers who 
dont have a compatible smart phone for their banking app. So, while Ms N may not agree 
with this, I cant tell ARB they must make this available to her, as it now forms part of their 
policy for issuing such devices. 
I also understand Ms N says she has experienced issues with her banking app and in 
particular over a bank holiday weekend, which she says resulted in her being unable to 
access her bank account and had to make alternative arrangements. ARB have apologised for this but couldnt establish whether this was an issue with Ms N logging on, or the app 
itself, that said ARB have given Ms N the benefit of the doubt here and have offered a small 
amount for the inconvenience caused. I have not been provided with any evidence to show 
why Ms N had issues that weekend, so its not possible for me to comment on why this 
happened. All I can say is ARB have apologised and carried out upgrades on the app to 
improve their customers experience, albeit I cant say with any certainty, the app didnt work 
at all as Ms N suggests. With this in mind, I am satisfied the offer of £15 made by ARB is 
reasonable in relation to that part of Ms Ns complaint to them. 
The other main issue that Ms N has raised with this service, is she has concerns over ARBs 
customers security, given during her telephone call in March 2020, she overheard another 
advisor discussing the bank account number and sort code of a customer. ARB have told 
this service while they do have measures in place to limit incidents like this, for example 
noise cancelling equipment, these issues can never be totally eradicated. While ideally 
incidents like these shouldnt happen, I am satisfied from what I have been told by ARB, they 
do take the matter seriously and its unfortunate, that Ms N overheard this. That said, I cant 
say Ms N has been financially disadvantaged, or put at risk as a result of what happened 
here, although I understand she might have concerns about what could happen going 
forward. That said the Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator, thats the role of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and its not for this service to direct businesses to 
change their processes and procedures. If Ms N remains unhappy then of course she does 
have the option like all customers to make alternative banking arrangements if she so 
wishes. 
So, while Ms N has raised a number of concerns thats not to say compensation is warranted 
on every occasion or here above the level already offered by ARB. I say this because overall 
I cant say that ARB is at fault for the issues Ms N has raised, for the reasons I have already 
given.
While Ms N will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of ARB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman