DRN-3993793
The complaint
Mr D and Mr S complain that Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly refused to reimburse the 
costs of a barristers legal assessment under Mr Ns legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
it accepts responsibility.
What happened
Mr D and Mr S both made a claim under their policy for the legal costs to pursue an 
employment claim. 
Amtrust obtained a legal assessment from its panel solicitors, which concluded that the 
claims didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. As this is a requirement for cover under 
the policy, Amtrust declined the claims. It told Mr D and Mr S that they were entitled to seek 
a legal challenge in the form of a solicitors opinion, at their own cost, and if supportive 
Amtrust would obtain a third and final opinion from a barrister to determine whether the 
claims could be accepted. 
As the Employment Tribunal deadlines were fast approaching, Mr D and Mr S decided to 
obtain a legal challenge directly from a barrister to speed up the process. This was 
supportive, so Amtrust agreed to accept the claims and funding was subsequently put in 
place. 
Mr D and Mr S asked Amtrust to reimburse the barristers fees. They say the panel solicitors 
advice was wrong. And that had they obtained a legal challenge from a solicitor, Amtrust 
wouldve had to incur the costs of a barrister rather than them. But Amtrust say the costs 
were incurred without its authorisation, so it said its not obligated to pay them. 
Mr D and Mr S raised a complaint. They want Amtrust to meet these costs but without 
deducting it from the limit of indemnity. They were also unhappy that Amtrust had sent an 
email to Mr S which was meant for Mr D. 
Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. And that, as Mr D and Mr S claims are linked, there was no detriment to the 
email being sent to the wrong party. It did, however, offer to contribute £600 each towards 
the barristers fees as a gesture of goodwill. Mr D and Mr S didnt accept the offer. 
On reconsideration, Amtrust reduced its offer to £200 each. It said Mr D and Mr S had 
provided more information to the barrister than they had to Amtrust, meaning that the panel 
solicitors hadnt benefited from all available information. 
Mr D and Mr S accepted payment of this offer but they felt it was unfair. They say the reason 
the barrister had more information was because they asked for it, whereas the panel 
solicitors didnt request anything but instead concluded there werent reasonable prospects 
of success due to lack of evidence. They say, as theyre not legal experts, they dont know 
what information is needed to assess the merits of their claims. 
The complaint was brought to our service, but our Investigator didnt uphold it. She 
considered the offer from Amtrust to be reasonable in the circumstances. Mr D and Mr S 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide, and I issued the following 
provisional decision. 
My provisional decision
The terms and conditions of the legal expenses insurance policy say there is no cover for 
advisers costs or any other costs and expenses incurred which have not been agreed in 
advance or are above those for which [Amtrust] has given [its] prior written approval.
At the time Mr D and Mr S incurred the costs of the barristers advice, their claims had been 
declined on the basis of a negative prospects assessment from Amtrusts panel solicitors. So 
I dont think there was any ambiguity there that Mr D and Mr S legal costs at that time 
werent agreed or approved under the policy. I can see that Amtrust had given Mr D and 
Mr S their rights to obtain a legal challenge and it was clear this would be at their own cost. I 
dont think this is in dispute. 
Mr D and Mr S point is that they didnt have time to go through the process of getting three 
legal opinions when their limitation date was imminent, so they obtained the barristers 
opinion which wouldve been the responsibility of Amtrust had they followed the process. So 
theyve asked whether Amtrust would meet these costs. I dont think this request is 
unreasonable. 
For clarity, I dont agree with Mr D and Mr S argument that the panel solicitors assessment 
was wrong. Whilst their barrister agreed there were reasonable prospects, this doesnt mean 
a contrary opinion is incorrect  they are only opinions after all and not a guarantee of how 
the claims will conclude.
Amtrust initially offered £600 each out of the £1,900 incurred on each claim. This was based 
on what it wouldve paid a barrister had it instructed one and the barristers invoice which 
showed the cost of the written opinion was £600 and the remainder of the costs were for oral 
advice  which Amtrust wasnt prepared to pay. I think this offer was fair in the 
circumstances as Amtrust wouldve only obtained a written legal assessment to determine 
cover. 
But, when Mr D and Mr S asked if the offer could be improved upon, Amtrust reduced it to 
£200 each. It said the barrister had access to more information than its panel firm. But Im 
not persuaded thats fair. I say this because there was nothing to stop the panel solicitor 
requesting more information from Mr D and Mr S (like the barrister did)  they didnt have to 
conclude there were no prospects due to lack of evidence without checking whether there 
was more evidence available. So Im not persuaded it was fair to reduce the offer after it had 
been made.
Amtrust say it didnt have to offer anything and I agree, the policy doesnt obligate Amtrust to 
reimburse Mr D and Mr S. But Im not bound by the policy terms and conditions. Ive also 
considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And I think, 
based on Mr D and Mr S situation and the likeliness that Amtrust wouldve needed to pay for 
a barristers opinion if Mr D and Mr S hadnt, its reasonable for Amtrust to meet some of the 
costs here. 
For this reason, Im inclined to direct Amtrust to pay £600 per claim minus the contribution its 
already made. However, Mr D and Mr S should be aware that this will be deducted from their 
limits of indemnity as all claims costs are. As Ive said above, I dont agree the panel firms advice was wrong solely because it differed from the barristers, and I havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Amtrust werent able to rely on it when declining the claim initially. 
And finally, Mr D and Mr S also complain that Amtrust sent an email to Mr S which was 
meant for Mr D. I can understand why theyre unhappy about this as it follows a previous 
complaint of a similar nature. But in this instance, I dont think there has been a detrimental 
impact here, so I dont think Amtrust need do anything to put things right in this respect. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D and Mr S has asked me to consider awarding the following costs:
Reimbursement of the legal costs incurred after their claims were submitted to 
Amtrust to protect their position and satisfy the Tribunal deadlines including the costs 
of drafting the particulars of claim. 
The barristers fees for the oral advice which included all the readings costs used for 
the Tribunal representation too.
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, I dont agree with Mr D and Mr S argument that 
the panel solicitors assessment on the prospects of success of their claims was incorrect. 
And I havent seen anything to persuade me that Amtrust werent able to rely on it when 
declining the claim initially. 
Because of this, until a supportive prospects assessment was received, Amtrust werent in a 
position to accept the claims under the policy terms and there was no cover for any legal 
costs being incurred. I appreciate Mr D and Mr S wouldve needed to protect their position 
due to the limitation date. But as their claims hadnt been accepted under the policy at that 
time and the only prospects assessment received was unsupportive, these costs arent 
covered by the policy. 
So I cant fairly say that Amtrust should cover any legal fees incurred during that time until it 
was able to accept the claims. 
I do think Amtrust should meet the costs of the barristers prospects assessment on a fair 
and reasonable basis for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. But this doesnt 
extend to the legal costs of pursuing the claims (such as oral advice or reading costs for the 
Tribunal) as there wasnt cover under the policy to pursue the claims at that time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I direct Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr D and Mr S a 
further contribution towards the barristers fees of £400 each bringing the total paid to £600 
each in line with its original offer. Amtrust are entitled to deduct this from the limit of 
indemnity available for each claim. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, Mr N and Mr 
S to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman