DRN-3889204
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has recorded adverse information on 
her credit file and they did not make it clear to her that there would be further interest to pay 
when she cleared the outstanding balance. 
What happened
Mrs W paid off her credit card balance in full before the repayment date, however, she says 
Tesco charged her interest that she wasnt aware of in the following month and they 
continued to do so for two months, only writing to her on the third month. She says that when 
she contacted Tesco, they were quick to reverse the interest and fees, but they refused to 
amend her credit file which was showing the adverse information. Mrs W made a complaint 
to Tesco.
Tesco did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. They said in order to prevent a customer from 
incurring an interest charge, their account must be paid in full on or before the due date each 
month and this is confirmed on the reverse of their statements and states customers are 
given a maximum of 56 days interest free on purchases they make as long as the balance is 
paid in full and on time. Tesco said this also depends on whether the previous month's 
balance was also paid in full and on time. So if part payments are made or the full payment 
is received late, interest is charged on all transactions from the date of their debit until the 
payment is received in full with interest being charged up until this date. Tesco wrote off the 
fees and interest as a goodwill gesture. Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She said on 13 July 2022, Mrs W made a 
payment clearing the outstanding balance on her previous statement from June 2022. The 
20 July 2022 statement had interest applied totalling £13.83, but no payment was received 
when due. She said the following statements up to September 2022 clearly had the interest 
charge, as well as £12 late payment fees applied. 
Mrs W asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said the account was settled in full and no further correspondence was
received. She said the first correspondence she received was a letter in the post after three 
missed payments. She said Tescos excuse is that it states what they have done somewhere 
in their very small and long terms and conditions which isnt treating customers fairly. She 
said removing the fees and the interest as quick as they did clearly highlight how wrong it
was in the first place. Mrs W said that having made a call to attempt to pay off the balance it 
would have been appropriate for Tesco to disclose to her that there would be further charges 
for her to pay requiring a payment a month later, especially as other credit card companies 
do not act in this manner. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mrs W has said about how other credit card companies operate. But 
here, I can only focus on the agreement that she entered into with Tesco and not any other 
company as her complaint is solely about Tesco. Id like to explain to Mrs W that it is not 
within this services remit to tell a business how to run their policies and procedures including 
when there should be no interest charged. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Tesco to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mrs W has said about Tescos stating what they have done is 
somewhere in their terms and conditions which isnt treating customers fairly. But this 
information was made available to her on each statement. So Im persuaded that she should 
have been aware of this. Page two of her statement says in the summary box under the first 
section below this titled Interest Free Period that Maximum 56 days for purchases if you 
pay your balance (excluding any balances on a 0% interest rate) in full and on time, and 
have paid the previous months balance in full and on time. This is also reiterated in the 
following section titled Interest Charging Information
So I am satisfied that Tesco made it clear every month they sent a statement to Mrs W that 
the only way she would receive up to 56 days interest free for purchases was if she had paid 
the balance in full and on time and also had paid the previous months balance in full and on 
time. But Mrs W hadnt paid the previous months balance in full. Her statement also says 
under the interest free period section that There is no interest free period on cash 
withdrawals, cash transactions, balance transfers or money transfers. But Mrs Ws Junes 
statement is clear that not all of the outstanding balance was for purchases. And therefore 
she would have always had interest to pay on the following statement. 
In the interest charging information section, the credit card statement also tells Mrs W that If 
you pay the balance in full, any interest charge for the period from the previous statement to 
the date of full repayment will be debited the following month. So Im satisfied that Mrs Ws 
statement was clear to her on more than one occasion of how the interest is charged. And 
they reiterated this information each month on her statement. So Im not persuaded that it 
would be proportionate for the call handler she spoke to, for them to tell Mrs W that there 
would be further charges for her to pay requiring a payment a month later when they have 
already made this clear on her statement each month. As Tesco has made this information 
available to Mrs W each month, I cant hold them responsible if Mrs W did not read the 
information they made available to her on her statements. 
Tesco still produced a statement for Mrs W each month after she had made a lump sum 
repayment on 13 July 2022. It would be Mrs Ws responsibility to check her account 
statements while her account is open, even if she believed there was nothing owing on the 
account. But Tesco also sent a letter to her registered address dated 20 July 2022. This said 
Please be aware that your final interest payment will still need to be made. So I cant agree 
with Mrs W that Tesco did not send her anything about this until three missed payments 
later. It is addressed to the same address that Mrs W gave our service, so Im satisfied it 
was sent to the correct address. 
In addition to producing the monthly credit card statement and the letter on 13 July, Tesco 
also sent correspondence to her on 19 August, with a notification of fees charged letter, 5 
September, informing her that she owed £13.83, two letters dated 20 September with a 
notification of fees charged letter and separately a notice of sums in arrears letter and on 20 
November with another notice of sums in arrears letter. As Im satisfied Tesco sent these to 
Mrs Ws registered address, I cant hold Tesco responsible if there were any delivery issues with the postal service as these would be outside of Tescos control. 
Ive considered what Mrs W has said about how quick Tesco removed the fees and the 
interest clearly highlighted how wrong it was in the first place. But Im not persuaded by this. 
Tesco charged the interest and fees in line with the terms of the account and the information 
they provided in her statements. Im satisfied that the removal of the interest and charges in 
a quick manner was as a goodwill gesture to try and repair the customer relationship with 
Mrs W.
Tesco have an obligation to accurately report Mrs Ws payment history to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). As Mrs W missed payments, then Tesco would need to report 
this to the CRAs. So I cant say theyve made an error here by reporting the correct 
information to them. Mrs W may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the 
CRAs to explain what happened here. This is a short explanatory note that she can add to 
an entry on her credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who searches 
her credit report, such as a credit card provider, would see the notice of correction and take 
the notice into account if they viewed her credit file. 
Prospective lenders will each consider a notice like this differently and it isn't a guarantee 
that they will put the underlying payment information to one side. But given how strongly Mrs 
W feels here - it is an option that is open to her. She would need to contact the CRAs to do 
this. But as Tesco have made no error in reporting the payment history to the CRAs as they 
are obliged to do this, and they made it clear on each statement how the interest free period 
works, it follows I dont require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman