DRN-4276382
The complaint
Miss A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted irresponsibly by continuing to 
apply overdraft charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss A held an account with HSBC with a £2,200 overdraft limit. Miss A also had a credit 
card with a £3,000 limit and a loan for £7,500 which was paid off around August 2021.
Miss A got in contact with HSBC regarding her overdraft with it around May 2020. HSBC 
notes record that she was put on a payment plan regarding her overdraft from May 2020 for 
£60 a month for three months. During this period HSBC froze all interest and charges on the 
account. This was extended again until February 2021 when HSBC started applying 
overdraft fees and charges again.
In December 2021 HSBC wrote to Miss A regarding her overdraft usage and asked that she 
get in touch if she required help, but Miss A never did prior to raising her complaint with it 
about the overdraft lending in May 2022.
HSBC didnt uphold Miss As complaint regarding the overdraft lending but once again wrote 
to Miss A about her overdraft usage and explained it was monitoring her account and that 
she had reduced her overdraft usage in the past three months and encouraged her to keep 
doing so as well as providing information about external organisations that could help. 
Following this letter Miss A brought her complaint to this service. Miss A eventually got in 
touch with HSBC in October 2022 and a budget planner was completed. This recorded that 
Miss A had a net disposable income of £837.24 and that her priority bills were up to date. 
HSBC suspended all interest and charges on her overdraft and refunded the previous four 
months worth of charges.
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and thought that HSBC shouldve realised 
that Miss A was in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to the 
account from July 2020 because the account in question hadnt maintained a credit balance 
for a significant period of time. They didnt think the interventions HSBC made went far 
enough. 
HSBC disagreed. It says all interest and charges were frozen from May 2020 to February 
2021 and that when it did get try to make contact with Miss A in December 2021 she failed to 
respond. Furthermore, when she did get in touch with it in October 2022, it refunded four 
months worth of charges and once again suspended charges going forward. 
HSBC says for the period Miss A was charged for her overdraft (February 2021 until June 
2022) it didnt think there were clear signs of financial difficulty as the overdraft was repaid 
on numerous occasions and that there were numerous transactions going out of the account 
that it considered non-essential spending.  
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 8 June 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to 
uphold Miss As complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions 
before I reached a final decision and neither HSBC or Miss A have added any new 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Firstly, to be clear my decision only relates to Miss As complaint about the charges applied 
to her account and overdraft when she says she was in financial difficulty. I can see that 
HSBC has only charged Miss A for her overdraft usage between February 2021 and June 
2022 (my understanding is after this charges have either been suspended or refunded). 
So this being the case the focus of my decision is on this period and whether HSBC should 
have done more to assist Miss A and whether it acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss A 
when it applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss As account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss A was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
And I currently dont think that HSBC did treat Miss A unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Miss As statements I havent seen enough to suggest 
that HSBC ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty 
during this period.
Miss A may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss As 
expenditure, nonetheless there is spending on what I would consider discretionary, non-
essential items and what looks like at times foreign payments and investments. I can also 
see regular cash withdrawals and transfers to other accounts all of which were depleting her 
account. 
There were regular credits and cash transfers into the account and Miss A was able to bring 
the overdraft down and for the majority of months during this period saw a credit balance 
before once again going on to use her overdraft to make debit card transactions, further 
money transfers and cash withdrawals. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs I 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to any potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss As account was being used 
leading up to and during this period. 
So taking everything into consideration I dont think HSBC treated Miss A unfairly or 
unreasonably during this period. And when Miss A did get in touch with HSBC I think the 
steps it took to help her (going through her income and expenditure, refunding and 
suspending interest and charges) was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in-line 
with what Id expect. Which means that Im currently not minded to uphold this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Miss As complaint against HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman