DRN-3750143
The complaint
S, a limited company complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) gave it the wrong advice about 
closing its account and as a result, S incurred additional costs.
S wants Metro to pay compensation. S is represented in its complaint by a director, Mrs P.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs P visited a Metro branch as she wanted to change Ss account from 
a limited company account to a sole trader account. Ss account was in credit at the time.
Mrs P says that a member of staff told her to keep Ss account open for a few weeks to 
make sure nothing was owed from the account. Mrs P says the member of staff told her that 
after this time, there wouldnt be any problem with transferring the balance to the new sole 
trader account.
Mrs P started to close S down and kept Metro informed of this. Mrs P says Metro wanted her 
to make sure that she removed Ss limited company status from its website but didnt raise 
any concerns about transferring the balance.
Once Metro received notice of Ss strike off, it restricted the account and told Mrs P that it 
would pay the funds to the Crown. To prevent this from happening, Mrs P applied to 
reinstate S. Metro held on to the funds until S was reinstated in early January 2022 after 
which time, the funds were transferred to Mrs Ps sole trader account and Ss bank account 
was closed.
Mrs P says that her inability to access the money in Ss account meant that she couldnt buy 
products for her business. Mrs P used personal savings to keep her going. Mrs P says the 
issue has caused her a great deal of stress.
The investigator didnt recommend that Ss complaint be upheld. The investigator explained 
that it was difficult to know exactly what was discussed in branch. But that she couldnt see 
any evidence of an account closure form on the day. The investigator also thought it 
wouldve been reasonable to expect Mrs P to have followed up the closure and transfer of 
funds sooner. 
The investigator noted that Metros call notes indicated that Mrs P intended to transfer funds 
from Ss account once it was dissolved. She explained that Metro wanted to make sure that 
S removed the limited status from its website as part of the checks Metro carries out to make 
sure its customers are advertised in the same way as captured on the account opening.
Mrs P is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. Mrs P says the fact that Metro 
didnt give her an account closure form was outside her control. Mrs P says she trusted the 
staff at Metro and having been reassured, didnt feel the need to follow up later.
Mrs P asks whether there are any notes of her conversation with the member of staff and if 
calls between mobiles were recorded. 
Mrs P says that Metro initially told her there was no process over removing the reference to 
a limited company on a customers website but that now, the investigator was saying there is 
a process. Mrs P asks what training Metro gives to its staff and whether this includes telling 
staff they cant close the limited company account or transfer funds.
Mrs P wants to know what process Metro has when a customer asks to open a sole trader 
account and close a limited company account.
Overall, Mrs P says she fees unprotected as a consumer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro has confirmed it doesnt have recordings of calls made by Metro staff on their mobiles 
and it doesnt have a record of exactly what was discussed in branch. It does however have 
a record of Mrs P opening the sole trader account in branch.
In cases like this where the evidence is inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Im sorry to hear about the upset that Mrs P has felt, particularly due to the personal reasons 
shes kindly outlined in her complaint. When Mrs P originally brought her complaint to this 
service, she did so in her own name. But as the complaint centres on concerns about 
Metros handling of Ss account, I consider the complaint is that of S  rather than Mrs P 
personally. S, as a limited company cant have hurt feelings so although I appreciate the 
emotional impact Mrs P has felt, I cant make an award to S to reflect this distress.
Although Mrs P says that a member of staff in branch told her to leave Ss account open for 
a few weeks, this goes against what Metro says its usual process is. Metro confirms that it 
can close an account as and when requested, be that on the same day or on a specific day 
in the future. If Mrs P intended to close Ss account when she attended the branch, I 
wouldve reasonably expected to see evidence of a completed account closure form on file 
but there isnt any.
I appreciate Mrs P relied on what Metro told her and I accept there may have been some 
confusion about the process in branch. But Im not persuaded that Metro refused to action 
the closure in branch or that it said it would close Ss account a few weeks down the line 
without further input from Mrs P. 
In Ss complaint form, Mrs P says Metro told her that Ss account would be kept open for a 
few weeks to make sure there were no outstanding debts. And that once Metro was satisfied 
S didnt owe anything, the money would be transferred. But I dont think its likely that Metro 
said it would transfer funds without further instructions from S. 
In early April 2021, Mrs P told Metro shed been waiting for confirmation from Companies 
House before transferring funds from Ss account to the new account and then closing Ss 
account. I think this suggests that Mrs P was aware she would need to request the transfer 
of funds and closure of the account rather than Metro carrying this out within a few weeks of 
opening the sole trader account.
I accept that Metro may have told Mrs P she could transfer the funds at a later point  and 
this was true. I think the issue might be that Mrs P is unhappy that Metro didnt explain what would happen to Ss bank account once the company was dissolved. Mrs P therefore 
thought she could request the transfer once S had been dissolved. Metro has said to this 
service that if Mrs P had asked the member of staff what would happen to Ss bank account 
once the company was dissolved, the member of staff wouldve referred her to a local 
business manager. As I dont have evidence to suggest Mrs P asked the question, I cant 
find that Metro did anything wrong. 
Mrs P says she had no reason to think Metro wouldnt close Ss account in a few weeks so 
didnt feel need the check what was happening. But I think it wouldve been reasonable to 
expect Mrs P to follow up with Metro in the weeks and months after she set up the new sole 
trader account. Particularly as Mrs P says she needed the money from Ss account to keep 
running her sole trader business. 
I cant find that Metro made a mistake when it froze Ss account after being informed that S 
had been dissolved. Its unfortunate that this meant S had to be reinstated to transfer the 
money in the account to Mrs Ps sole trader account. But I dont find it reasonable to require 
Metro to refund the costs of this exercise. And Im satisfied that Metro acted reasonably by 
agreeing to hold the funds until S had been reinstated. 
Another aspect of Ss complaint is that its unhappy with how Metro has handled its 
complaint. However, the FCA Handbook limits the types of complaint that this service can 
consider to those: 
...about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service.... 
While I can appreciate that S is unhappy about how Metro has handled its complaint, the 
handling of complains isnt a financial service. This means I cant consider this aspect of Ss 
complaint.
Finally, Mrs P asked about the removal of Ss limited status from its website. Metro says that 
it has a quality team which checks accounts opened in store to ensure they are opened in 
line with Metros policies. And that customers are given two weeks to update their websites 
to reflect a change of entity. This seems reasonable and is in line with what Mrs P says 
Metro told her about removing the limited company status from Ss website. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont uphold Ss 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman