DRN-3044043
The complaint
Mr K complained about Paysafe Financial Services Limited, trading as Neteller (UK) Ltd. 
Mr K had a large number of reward points with a substantial cash value, which expired. He 
complained because Neteller didnt warn him in advance that his points were about to 
expire. Mr K says this was an unreasonable contractual term, and he wants Neteller to pay 
him for the expired reward points.
What happened
Mr K had an electronic money account with Neteller, and in April 2015 he joined the rewards 
programme, under which points were collected, to be exchanged for cash. 
Mr K redeemed just under 27,000,000 reward points for 20,850 US dollars. But a total of just 
under 9,500,000 reward points expired in February 2017 and January 2019. 
Mr K complained to Neteller. He said that it was an unreasonable contractual term that 
Neteller didnt proactively inform customers that points were about to expire. 
Neteller didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. In its final response, it said that participation in the 
rewards programme was subject to the programmes rules, which Mr K was responsible for 
reading. Neteller quoted four sections of the rules, including section 10 which said:
The accumulation of Points is subject to the Program Rules hereof. Some or all of the 
Points earned in any year must be redeemed by the end of the following calendar year (for 
Reward Items of any Catalogue value) or all of the Points earned in that year will expire at 
the end of that period. The ability to track Points online via the Program website will be made 
available and periodically updated at NETELLERs sole discretion. Its up to you to track and 
timely redeem the Points prior to the expiration of the respective calendar year.
Neteller said that giving notice about expiring reward points hadnt been part of the 
agreement. And it explained that the operation of the rewards site was managed on its 
behalf by a different organisation  so it couldnt track points itself.
Mr K wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said that he understood Mr Ks 
frustration. But he explained that this service doesnt perform the role of an industry 
regulator, which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So we cant set rules 
for financial businesses like Neteller, or tell them how to run their reward scheme. We can 
look at whats fair and reasonable. The investigator said that Neteller had adhered to the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ks account, and had reasonably informed him of these when 
hed opted into the scheme.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that the amount of money hed lost was too large. The reward 
points with real cash value that belonged to him, had disappeared from his Neteller account 
without his having been informed about the expiry. Mr K said he wanted Neteller to pay him 
the value of the expired reward points, and he asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr K is frustrated and upset at having lost the points, because the 
value was significant. But in reaching my decision, I have to take into account all the 
circumstances of the case  which includes the terms and conditions of the account.
By taking up Netellers rewards scheme in 2015, Mr K accepted the terms and conditions of 
the scheme. As Ive quoted above, these do make it clear that:
 Its up to you to track and timely redeem the Points prior to the expiration of the 
respective calendar year.
I do recognise that it would have been better customer service if Neteller had notified 
account holders that points were about to expire. And Im not persuaded that it couldnt do 
so, simply because it had outsourced the reward system  because it could have specified to 
the third party company if it had wanted this to be part of the scheme.  
But the bottom line is that the terms of this scheme make clear that there was no obligation 
on Neteller to notify account holders before points expired. So I dont think the fact that it 
didnt notify Mr K here was unfair in the circumstances. Equally, the terms here only suggest 
that Mr K should monitor the situation with his points and ensure that these were redeemed 
in a timely manner. I dont think that put an unfair expectation on Mr K here in his individual 
circumstances. 
I recognise that Mr K has argued that this was an unfair contractual term. This services 
role is to reach a fair and reasonable decision based on all the circumstances of the case, 
rather than to look solely at contract law. And its the role of the regulator, the FCA, to take 
decisions on whether a financial businesss procedures need to be changed. But I would 
point out that if Mr K felt the contractual term was unfair when he read the terms which 
explained how the scheme worked, it was open to him to decide not to join it. 
I realise this sounds harsh, and I do have sympathy with Mr Ks position and his loss, but 
unfortunately this is the case.
So although I sympathise with Mr K, its not open to me to uphold his complaint, because 
Neteller had at the outset clearly set out the position in the terms and conditions of the 
scheme.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman