DRN-2040921
The complaint
Ms Ws complaint is about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, has paid to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms W took out a credit card with Barclays in January 1992 and at that time was sold a PPI 
policy to protect the repayments on her card account.
In 2019, Ms W complained she had been mis-sold the PPI and Barclays agreed to uphold 
her complaint. Barclays wrote to Ms W in December 2019 offering £480.99 in compensation 
to settle her complaint. In that letter Barclays told Ms W it didnt have any statement data for 
her card account before May 2001. So it said it had used the information on the PPI from 
that date to estimate the PPI shed paid for the period from January 1992 to May 2001.
Ms W wasnt happy with the amount offered by Barclays because she thought that she 
hadnt received enough compensation for the PPI she paid in this earlier period. She 
referred her complaint to this service. Ms W told us she took out the credit card in 1992 
because she was about to go travelling abroad and made extensive use of the card then. So 
she thought that Barclays has underestimated the PPI she would have been charged in the 
period when no statements are available.
Following Ms Ws complaint being referred to us, Barclays said that it had been able to 
retrieve some further statement data for her account from its archive system for the period 
from January 2001. Barclays recalculated its estimate of the compensation due to Ms W 
using this additional information. But it found that this resulted in a lower compensation 
figure than it had already offered Ms W, so it said it still thought the amount it had offered Ms 
W was fair. 
Our adjudicator said she thought Barclays compensation offer was fair and it hadnt done 
anything wrong in dealing with Ms Ws complaint. Ms W didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclays has already agreed to uphold Ms Ws complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in 
this decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. I am only looking at whether 
Barclays offer is fair.
From the records Barclays has provided I can see that the credit card account was opened 
in January 1992. And except for a £38.23 transaction Ms W made on her card in March 2011 
and paid off the following month (for which she was charged PPI of £0.15), the card wasnt 
used by her after August 2009.
 
Barclays updated compensation calculation incorporated statement data from January 2001 
onwards. An estimate of the PPI charged prior to this was made by Barclays using what is 
referred to as the Decreasing Method. This method takes an average of the premiums 
shown on the first twelve months of available statements (i.e. from January 2001 to January 
2002). This average value is then decreased backwards to the start date of the policy. This 
gave a total compensation figure of 457.23 on the updated calculation, which is lower than 
the original offer made to Ms W. In calculating this offer, Barclays has also worked out 
compensatory interest at 8% simple each year on the amount Ms W may have been out of 
pocket because she paid for the PPI.
Businesses arent required to keep customer account-level data indefinitely. And in 
circumstances where a business is missing information on card balances and PPI paid from 
the start date, as is the case here, this service normally accepts the decreasing method as a 
fair way for it to estimate these when carrying out a compensation calculation. However, this 
wouldnt be the case if a consumer is able to provide information which allows a more 
accurate estimate of them to be made. 
Ms W doesnt appear to have statements or other records relating to her card account in this 
earlier period either. Thats not surprising given how long ago this was. But she thinks the 
PPI paid by her has been under-estimated by Barclays because she would have made much 
more substantial use of her card in the time before January 2001 than Barclays use of the 
decreasing method would suggest. 
Ms W may well be correct in what she has said. But, unfortunately, she hasnt been able to 
provide any estimate or supporting evidence of the amounts she spent each month on her 
card in these years either. Its also not known what repayments Ms W made against her 
month end balances during this period and this is likely to have had a significant impact on 
the amount of PPI she was charged.
So I fully accept that Barclays methodology could have resulted in the compensation offered 
to Ms W being lower than it should have been if a full historical record of her card account 
had been available. But I dont think it would be reasonable to direct Barclays to pay a larger 
amount  or indeed to expect it to be able to calculate what that larger amount might be 
in the absence of more information about this being available. 
Ive also reviewed the detailed calculations which Barclays has undertaken using the above 
methodology to arrive at its updated compensation figure. And Im satisfied that these 
calculations have been undertaken in the way this service would have expected and are 
accurate.
So, given what is known about the history of Ms Ws card account, I think the compensation 
which Barclays has offered her for the mis-sale of the PPI is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Barclays Bank PLC has offered in compensation 
to Ms W to settle her complaint about mis-sold PPI is fair. I understand that Ms W has now 
received payment of this offer, so Im not telling Barclays Bank PLC to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Simon FurseOmbudsman