DRN-3744393
The complaint
Mr D complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) didnt carry out 
checks before it granted a loan which he couldnt afford to repay. 
Mr D is also unhappy Cashfloat has recorded a default on his credit file while he was in the 
process of setting up a Debt Management Plan (DMP) with a well-known third-party debt 
advice group. 
What happened
Mr D took one loan from Cashfloat of £400 on 31 December 2019. Mr D was due to make 
four monthly repayments with his largest payment being £179.16. Mr D had some problems 
repaying his loan, and none of the contractual repayments were made. Instead, Mr D 
entered into a DMP and I can see from the statement of account that payments started to be 
received by Cashfloat in July 2020. 
Mr D doesnt appear to have had a response to his complaint after he raised it with 
Cashfloat. As a result, he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Cashfloat made a 
reasonable decision to lend the loan because it carried out a proportionate check which 
showed Cashfloat that Mr W would likely be able to afford the largest repayment he was due 
to make. 
In addition, the adjudicator concluded that when Cashfloat contacted the debt charity in April 
2020 it was told it had no listings for him  which meant there wasnt a record of a DMP for 
Mr D. Therefore, it was reasonable for Cashfloat to have defaulted the account when it did 
and the information Cashfloat had reported was an accurate reflection of the conduct of the 
account.
 
Cashfloat didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr D didnt agree with the outcome, in response he sent a number of emails and Ive 
summarised these below;
Mr D entered the DMP in March 2020 but there were delays in getting it finalised as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
On the day Mr D received the default notice he let Cashfloat know that he was under 
a DMP. Mr D says at this point, Cashfloat put the account on hold while it waited to 
hear from the DMP provider.
Mr D provided copies of emails between himself and the debt charity showing the 
DMP was being set up. 
Further emails where then provided between Mr D and Cashfloat in May 2020, which 
showed Cashfloat was aware of the DMP and that it was a creditor within the plan.
The complaint was then re-considered by a different adjudicator, and a second assessment 
was issued, this time it focused on the default and whether Cashfloat was correct to record a 
default. She provided a summary of the timeline of events from the loan being approved, to 
the missed payments and the communication between Mr D and Cashfloat. 
She concluded that at the latest in May 2020 Cashfloat was aware of the DMP and that it 
was a creditor within it. But it wasnt told when a payment would be made, and as no 
payment had been received towards the account and was sufficiently in arrears (and in in 
line with the Information Commissions Office (ICO) guidance) she thought it was reasonable 
for the default to have been applied. 
Mr D didnt agree and said that he was being penalised for the fact that everything had shut 
down due to the pandemic and he didnt think it had been taken into account. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr D could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ds 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include:
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr D was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint. 
I have split this decision into two parts. The first part will deal with Cashfloats decision to 
lend and whether it carried out proportionate checks and the second part deals with 
Cashfloats decision to default the account. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman to decide.  
Unaffordable lending
Before the loan was approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Ds income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded Mr Ds income as being £1,800 per month from a television subscription 
provider. In addition, it knew he lived at home with parents and had outgoings of £601 
across a number of categories including rent, utilities, food and travel.  This left Mr D with a 
monthly disposable income of £1,199. 
Cashfloat says it tested the validity of Mr Ds income and expenditure, and this came back 
with positive results, indicating the information he had provided was likely to be accurate. But 
the results of these tests havent been provided. 
Based on the income and expenditure information Mr D declared, Cashfloat wouldve been 
comfortable that he could afford the maximum monthly payment he was due to make (in 
both February and March 2020) of £179.16. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Cashfloat to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr D had provided.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to 
have relied on the information Mr D provided along with the income and expenditure figures 
to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about the loan.
Im therefore not upholding this element of Mr Ds complaint. 
The Credit file
Mr D hasnt provided a copy of his credit file, so I dont know exactly what information 
Cashfloat is reporting. However, Mr D does accept he received the default notice in 
March 2020 and that the account is being recorded as in default, which is what Cashfloat 
says is being reported. 
Pandemic support
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, in April 2020 the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) released guidance to lenders  such as Cashfloat as to how it ought to deal 
with consumers who were having problems directly related to the pandemic. 
So, for example, if someone couldnt work due to the pandemic then there was specific 
guidance as to what a lender may do in those circumstances. However, the guidance note 
released by the FCA also said:Where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance 
rules and guidance in CONC would continue to apply. These would include for 
example the firm considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further 
interest or charges, deferring payment of arrears or accepting token payments for a 
reasonable period of time.
In this case, I think its fair to say that Mr Ds difficulties started before the pandemic. After all 
this guidance wasnt in place until April 2020 and Mr D had already missed his January, 
February and March 2020 payments by then. So, he did have longer term difficulties that 
while they may have been exacerbated by the pandemic, they werent caused by it. 
Ive kept this in mind when thinking about what Cashfloat did after the default notice was 
issued in March 2020 but, importantly, the guidance note didnt say that this would prevent 
defaults from being added to someones credit file. 
Recording a default
When thinking about whether Cashfloat ought to have placed a default on Mr Ds credit file, 
Ive considered the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The 
ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a 
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonable to rely on this, because in my view, it 
constitutes good industry practice.
Principle two of the ICO guidance says;
2. Should a payment not be made as expected, information to reflect this will be 
recorded on your credit file 
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the 
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported to 
the CRAs [credit reference agencies] as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the 
level of reported arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking some form 
of action. This could include notification of their intention to report the account as 
defaulted (see Principle 4 below).
So clearly, the ICO expects payments to be recorded with the CRAs if they arent met. For 
example, Mr D didnt make his January or February 2020 payment and so the arrears and 
missed payment markers will be reported to the CRAs. 
The guidance also says what should happens if a DMP is agreed:
Debt Management Programme 
A debt management programme (DMP) is when a third-party debt adviser negotiates a 
repayment schedule for all or a number of a consumers credit agreements. If the plan 
is accepted by the lender, the record filed at the credit reference agencies must reflect 
that the consumer is on a DMP. For such accounts arrears may continue to be 
calculated in accordance with the contracted terms, but the account marked as under a 
DMP.
Therefore, it would seem that the ICO does suggest that if an arrangement is made, and 
stuck to, the default wouldnt be recorded. However, in this case, while Cashfloat was aware in March 2020 a DMP was being sought it wasnt until May 2020 that it received emails from 
Mr D showing that it was a creditor  but again, there is still no indication that the agreement 
had actually been agreed at that time. But it doesnt say an account cant be defaulted and 
then be subject to a DMP  which is what happened here. 
In this case, Mr D hadnt made the contractual repayments due in January or February 2020. 
I can see that after the payments were missed Cashfloat took steps to contact Mr D about 
them. For example, Mr D told Cashfloat on 28 January 2020 that his account was restricted 
due to fraud and he was waiting for a new card. 
At this point, in line with the ICO guidance, adverse information wouldve been reported to 
the CRAs about the missed payment between January  March 2020. In addition, his 
account was sufficiently in arrears, by March 2020 for the default process to start. 
The default notice was sent on 19 March 2020, and if no further payments were received, 
the account wouldve been at least three months in arrears (the minimum required to record 
the default with the CRAs as outlined by the ICO).  It was at this point, that Mr D responded 
to the default notice by letting Cashfloat know that he was seeking to join a DMP. There are 
then a number of emails after this date where both Mr D and Cashfloat are trying to find out 
more information such as reference numbers. 
Cashfloat applied a hold on the account for 30 days from 23 March 2020. In April 2020, at 
the end of the hold, it contacted the third party who Mr D advised was dealing with the DMP 
 at this time, it was told there was no listings for Mr D. However, due to the pandemic 
Cashfloat has said that it extended the 30 day hold to 12 June 2020. This was a reasonable 
and fair course of action to have taken. 
I think this was a positive step to take, this recognised that there was a pandemic ongoing 
and gave Mr D further time to finalise the DMP. Although, Mr Ds difficulties werent, as far 
as I can tell, caused by the pandemic it was reasonable for Cashfloat to provide him with 
extra time to finalise it. 
Then at the start of May 2020, Mr D has provided copies of emails where he showed 
Cashfloat that he was going to be subject to a DMP and that Cashfloat was included as one 
of his creditors. Cashfloat acknowledged this at the time and while this showed that a DMP 
was being set up, it hadnt as far as the emails go or Cashfloat was concerned had been 
agreed  which is important when thinking about the ICO guidance.
After 12 June 2020  at the end of the second hold, no payments had been received, and so 
Cashfloat provided a third and final hold to 29 June 2020. When no confirmation about the 
DMP was received and having received no payments towards the loan since the inception of 
the account, Cashfloat recorded the loan as being in default. 
However, as can be seen from the statement of account, the first payment under the DMP 
was received by Cashfloat on 1 July 2020. Unfortunately, this was after the third hold had 
expired, and after the request to record the default with the CRAs.
Here, Im satisfied that no DMP had been agreed with Cashfloat (and it wasnt aware when 
the payments were due to start)  although it was aware one was being set up. The account 
was sufficiently in arrears to be defaulted, the correct default notice had been sent to Mr D 
and it had provided additional time for Mr D to arrange for the DMP to be set up to take 
account of delays caused by the pandemic. Overall, I think this was the right approach for 
Cashfloat to take. 
It is also worth saying, that other guidance also seems to support that Cashfloat hasnt acted unreasonably in this case.  One of the main CRAs has a section on its website about DMPs 
and how this affects a credit file. It says;
You can get a default. Even if a creditor has agreed to your DMP, they may 
record a default on your credit report since youre making reduced payments.
This CRA provider is clear that even if a DMP is entered into and stuck to than the account 
may still default. Which while isnt the exact same situation here because Mr D was in the 
process of setting up the DMP and the account was defaulted before any payments were 
made. However, what this does show, is that even if at the time Cashfloat hadnt defaulted 
the account it was well within its rights to do so at a later date. 
In addition, Ive considered a well-known debt advice charity, about what it says about 
recording defaults when a DMP is entered into; it says;
Debt management plans and default notices
Its normal to receive default notices if youre on a debt management plan (DMP) or 
token payment plan (TPP). All this means is that you've been paying less than the 
agreed minimum monthly payment to your debts. Just continue with your plan 
payments as normal.
The debt charity also seems to back up what Cashfloat has done, by saying that the default 
can be recorded. After all, once the plan was in place and payments were being made, Mr D 
still wasnt paying the contractual amount and was significantly in arrears, so Cashfloat may 
have at a later date, even after the payments to the DMP had started, record the default. 
This is entirely consistent with the guidance from the ICO, the debt charity and what has 
happened in this case. 
It is also worth saying here, that the statement of account shows no payments being made 
towards the DMP in August and September 2020 as well as May 2021. So even if a default 
hadnt been recorded when it was, then given the DMP appeared to have been broken, then 
the default wouldve likely been recorded just at a later date. 
I have no doubt, the pandemic slowed down the process of Mr D entering into his DMP. I 
can see from the emails Cashfloat did apply a number of holds onto the account for around 
three months, which was reasonable for it to do given what was going on.
However, even if the DMP had been entered into outside of the pandemic, it was always 
likely the account couldve been marked with the CRAs as being in default just at a later 
date, because Mr D wouldve continued to be in arrears. 
I accept that Mr D will be unhappy with the outcome Ive reached, but I hope he understands 
why I have made the findings that I have. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman