DRN-4053739
The complaint
Mr D complains about credit granted to him by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (trading as 
Santander Consumer Finance). 
 
What happened
Santander agreed credit of £8,800 for Mr D on 20 March 2017 in order for him to acquire 
a car. The cash price of the car was £10,000. The total amount owed under the 
agreement came to £11,984.80 including interest and charges. Mr D paid a deposit of 
£1,200 and the remainder was to be repaid by 52 instalments of £207.40.
The credit was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Santander was the 
owner of the car until the credit had been repaid and Mr D was, in essence, paying for its 
use. I can see from the account history that Mr D met his repayments and the credit was 
repaid as per the agreement. The account closed in July 2021.  
Mr D said that Santander should not have agreed to lend to him. It should have realised 
that the repayments would be unaffordable for him because of the significant amount of 
existing debt he had. Mr D said that he managed to meet his repayments but with 
extreme difficulty and ended up in more debt by the end of the agreement. By then he 
owed £16,000 on credit cards, £10,000 on an overdraft and £30,000 to HMRC. He 
explained that he was only able to finally repay his debts upon receipt of an inheritance.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said it conducted a full credit assessment 
before lending to Mr D and found that he had a relatively low level of existing debt. The 
information it saw raised no affordability issues. 
Mr D referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. They found 
that Santander should have carried out more comprehensive affordability checks than it 
did before entering into an agreement with Mr D. They also found that further checks 
would have shown the credit to be unaffordable for him and so recommended that his 
complaint be upheld. 
Santander didnt agree with this recommendation. It said that Mr D never missed his 
payments or expressed any concerns with financial difficulties during the agreement. The 
agreement was paid off on time. Santander asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman for a review and its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Santander lent to Mr D. 
Its rules and guidance said that before agreeing credit for Mr D, Santander needed to 
check that he could afford to meet his repayments sustainably. In other words without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness, without having to borrow further, and 
while meeting his other debt payments and other normal outgoings. These checks 
needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount and term, for 
example) and to Mr Ds particular circumstances. 
Ultimately, Santander needed to treat Mr D fairly and take full account of his interests 
when making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted customers 
with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their 
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason. 
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Santander complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments sustainably? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown? Ultimately, did Santander make a fair lending 
decision?
Santander said that it carried out the correct affordability checks during the credit 
application and the agreement was approved because Mr D met the approval threshold at 
that time. It said that no affordability concerns were raised by the dealership or Mr D 
during the process. Santander also said, in its final response to Mr D, that he was 
provided with an affordability statement during the application process which he signed 
and that this statement confers the responsibility onto the customer to ensure that they 
are able to meet the monthly instalments throughout the lifetime of the agreement.
Let me begin by saying that I cannot agree with this view. Santander was required to carry 
out proportionate checks to ensure Mr D would be able to meet his repayments over the 
lifetime of the agreement and the affordability declaration didnt absolve Santander of this 
responsibility. 
When Mr D applied for credit Santander gathered some information from him about his 
circumstances and checked his credit file. It noted that Mr D had a mortgage with a 
monthly repayment of £1,028, was paying £340 on his non-revolving credit accounts and 
had over £17,000 of existing credit card debt. The only adverse information recorded was 
a defaulted amount of £100 almost three years prior. Mr D was making the minimum 
repayment at least towards his credit card accounts, given the lack of adverse information 
on his file. This would have amounted to several hundred pounds. 
Agreeing this loan could commit Mr D to repaying a further £200 a month for over four 
years and the consequences of not managing these repayments were potentially serious 
in that he might lose access to a car aside from the financial impacts. Santander noted 
that Mr D was self-employed but I havent seen any information about his income or 
expenditure, so I dont know what, if any, information Santander gathered about his 
means. Altogether, I cant say that Santander carried out proportionate checks on this 
occasion. 
Ive looked into what such checks would likely have revealed about Mr Ds ability to repay 
the credit in a sustainable manner. Mr D provided us with a recent copy of his credit file, 
his bank statements from around that time and his tax returns. Im not suggesting this is 
the information Santander ought to have gathered but I think its reasonable for me to rely 
on these as a proxy for what proportionate checks might have revealed. 
Mr D had been repaying an existing hire purchase agreement at a lower monthly rate 
which this agreement replaced. However, he was still left paying about £500 a month on 
existing debt. This included several credit cards with combined balances of £17,000 and 
an overdraft balance of about £9,000. Mr Ds bank statements show identifiable 
household bills of about £600. This means that together with his mortgage Mr D was committed to payments of over £2,100 a month. Mr D also had car running costs, food 
and child-related spending of several hundred pounds a month. His bank statements from 
around that time show a gross monthly income averaging around £3,000 and his tax 
return confirms an annual taxable gross of about £30,000. 
I think its likely Santander would have learnt that Mr D was living beyond his means and 
had been for some time to have accumulated his level of debt. I think it would have 
declined to lend to him under these circumstances because he wasnt likely to be able to 
repay the credit in a sustainable manner. Furthermore, I dont think Santander treated 
Mr D fairly or with regard to his interests by agreeing credit for him given his financial 
situation. Mr D was managing to service his debts but he wasnt making any inroads into 
repaying them and appeared to be reliant on credit. Although he managed to meet his 
repayments, his financial situation hadnt improved by the end of the agreement and, 
according to Mr D, he was even further in debt.    
Putting things right
As I dont think Santander ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or fees under the agreement. Mr D should therefore only have to 
repay the amount he borrowed. Anything Mr D has paid in excess of that amount should be 
refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ds complaint Santander should:
Refund any payments Mr D has made over £8,800; and
Add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file, if any, regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (trading as Santander Consumer Finance) and it needs to put things 
right as Ive set out.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman