DRN-2510404
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their claim for stolen 
jewellery under their home contents insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W contacted AXA on 4 August 2020 to raise a claim under their home 
contents insurance policy for jewellery they believed had been stolen. Mrs W had been 
wearing the jewellery when she visited her doctors. She put her jewellery in her pockets 
before her treatment. Mrs W said she discovered the jewellery was missing a few days later. 
Mrs W says that the jewellery was stolen while she was at the doctors, probably while she 
was in the lift. Mrs W reported the theft to the police. She also provided the Crime Reference 
Number to AXA when she made the claim.
AXA confirmed the visit to the doctors. But no CCTV footage which mightve shown the theft 
was available. Mrs W says its not possible to provide any CCTV footage as there are no 
cameras in the lift where she thinks the theft took place. But AXA declined the claim as it 
said that theft hadnt been established. 
Mrs W and Mr W complained to AXA but AXA didnt uphold their complaint. So they asked 
this service to consider their complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that theft had been proved. So 
he didnt think AXA had treated Mrs W and Mr W unfairly when they declined their claim. 
So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably when it declined the claim, I 
need to see what the policy shows Mrs W and Mr W were covered for. From the claim form 
and the receipts provided I note that the items claimed for would be classed as Personal 
Possessions as each piece was valued under £1,500.
The schedule says Mrs W and Mr W had General Possessions cover of £1,500. This means 
£1,500 is the most AXA could pay out for a successful claim of this type. The relevant 
wording in their policy document is as follows (Section 5(c)):
General Possessions (Anywhere in the World) 
Section 5 (c) 
What is covered 
This cover is designed to protect everyday Personal Possessions worth less than £1,500 
individually that You regularly take outside of Your Home against physical damage or theft. 
This cover is optional. Your Policy Document will show if You have chosen to protect 
Personal Possessions and the total sum You insured them for. 
Under this section of cover, Your policy will cover the following Insured Losses: 
 Theft 
What is not covered
For any claim, cover isnt provided for: 
 Your Excess (in this case Your Contents Excess) as shown in the Policy Document; 
 Any item worth more than £1,500 individually (these can be covered under section 5b); 
For theft claims, cover isnt provided for: 
 Accidental Losses. 
So the policy document states that theft of the type of items Mrs W said were stolen can be 
covered. But it then states that for theft claims, cover isnt provided for accidental losses. 
Now we need to look at how the policy document defines accidental losses:
Accidental Loss(es)
This relates to the loss of Personal Possessions, Contents, High Risk Items, Electronic
Gadgets or Bikes where theft cannot be established.
AXA have said that they dont have enough evidence to support that a theft took place. As 
there was no CCTV evidence, they said the theft couldnt be established. Without enough 
evidence, AXA classified the claim as an Accidental Loss. Mrs W and Mr W dont have cover 
for Accidental Loss under their policy. 
Mrs W disagreed, she said that shed tested her pockets with similar items to see if the 
jewellery couldve fallen out. And shed found it wasnt possible to lose them this way. Shed 
also reported the theft to the police. She felt shed done enough to prove the theft.
But I dont think AXA did anything wrong when they classified the missing jewellery as an 
Accidental Loss. Its not unusual for insurers to need proof around theft. Theyre entitled to 
ask for CCTV footage to confirm it. When that footage wasnt available, AXA did check to 
see if they could cover the claim under a different section of the policy. But unfortunately that 
wasnt possible. 
Im very sorry that Mrs W no longer has the items that she said were stolen. I know several 
of them were of sentimental value. But I havent seen enough evidence to confirm that the 
items were stolen. Its bad luck that there was no CCTV in the lift at the doctors to confirm 
Mrs W and Mr Ws claim. But AXA was entitled to need CCTV footage to confirm theft. As 
that CCTV footage wasnt available to confirm theft, I cant say that AXA has treated Mrs W 
and Mr W unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman