DRN-2543150
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as S complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly 
declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mr L who is a director of S brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
S has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy with Covea. Mr L made a claim 
on that policy to cover his losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
Notifiable Disease was ambiguous and so his claim should be covered.
Mr L complained to Covea but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain Infections Diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr L wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathises with Mr Ls situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Mr L didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L is looking to claim on Ss business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining his claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mr L took out. 
Ss policy included cover for notifiable disease. The policy states:
We will indemnify You in respect of loss resulting from interruption of or interference 
with the Business during the Indemnity Period in consequence of the following 
contingencies:
(a) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease at The Premises
(b) any discovery of a harmful organism likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Notifiable Disease at The Premises
The policy goes on to provide a definition for the term Notifiable Disease :
The occurrence of any of the following human infectious or human contagious 
diseases sustained by any person:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, 
Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, 
Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough, Yellow Fever.
This policy sets out a list of specified illnesses that are covered however, COVID-19 isnt on 
that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something Covea would have known about when the policy 
was drafted, but there were other policies on the market that did provide cover for the 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list. In contrast, Ss policy includes a list of diseases it has chosen 
to cover. And I havent seen anything in the policy which implies that cover will be provided 
for diseases not on the list set out in the policy, including for any new diseases which 
emerge. The policy specifies that no other diseases can be added to the list without Coveas 
prior written consent, which Im satisfied has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to those 
diseases listed within the policy. 
Mr L has argued that Notifiable Disease is a defined legal term with statutory obligations 
and that the wording of the term is unclear as it uses the word any. So he says the policy is 
ambiguous. However I dont agree that the policy is ambiguous. The policy states that a 
word with a specific meaning shall be highlighted with a leading capital letter and in bold 
text within the policy wording. The term Notifiable Disease is capitalised and in bold, 
showing that it has a specific meaning. The term is clearly defined within the policy and the 
diseases the policy covers are clearly listed immediately before the policy term. The wording 
also explains that the definitions given are for the purposes of that policy extension.
There are other clauses in the policy which look like they could provide cover including for 
Damage and Denial of Access. Mr L hasnt raised specific objections to the investigators 
view in relation to those issues. But for completeness, these terms require there to be 
physical damage in one form or another in order for the policy to respond to a claim. And as I 
dont think COVID-19 caused physical damage to property, I dont think these terms provide 
cover in these circumstances.
Mr L also referred to the Supreme Court Judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys test 
case. However the Court case didnt consider all policies or all terms, and whether the claim 
should be paid still depends on the specific terms contained in the policy. And having 
considered these, I dont think there are any terms that would provide cover in these 
circumstances.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Mr L. But for 
the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont 
think Covea acted unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 Sara Falzon
Ombudsman