DRN-3662742
The complaint
Miss B says that Oplo PL Ltd lent irresponsibly to her.
What happened
Miss Bs complaint is about a loan provided by Oplo. The loan was advanced in August 2021 
for £10,000 over 60 months.
Miss B said the lending was irresponsible because she had other significant borrowing at the 
time which meant she was unlikely to be able to afford the repayments.
I issued a provisional decision saying I wasnt upholding the complaint. I explained that Oplo 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly, which meant that 
it needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to make sure that Miss B could 
afford to repay what she was borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
I said that prior to advancing the loan, Oplo had carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment and had found only one unsecured loan with a balance of £66. The checks also 
showed that Miss B had a credit card with a credit limit of £3000 but that none of the credit 
limit had been utilised. Oplo calculated Miss Bs monthly disposable income at £1044 and 
determined that the loan repayments of £287 were affordable.
I found that the checks carried out by Oplo were reasonable and proportionate and that the 
lending decision was fair.
I considered what Miss B said about the further loans she had taken out in August 2021 
before applying for the loan with Oplo. I said that if Oplo had carried out further checks I 
didnt think it would have reached a different lending decision, because the other loans were 
so recent that they wouldnt have shown up on Miss Os credit file, and I didnt think the 
loans were something that Oplo ought reasonably to have been aware of. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
Miss B didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Oplo responded and said it agreed with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my 
provisional decision. I think the checks carried out by Oplo were reasonable and 
proportionate and Im not persuaded that it lent irresponsibly. 
My final decision.
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman