DRN-3305249
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a mortgage in 2009. 
What happened
Halifax sold Mr B a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP). A TMPP was typically 
comprised of a number of different types of insurance products such as accident/sickness, 
unemployment, critical illness cover and life protection. It was possible to choose some or all 
of the products that were offered. In this case, Mr B was sold unemployment cover only.  
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through his representative, Mr 
B disagreed with that view. He said that the PPI was just added on to his mortgage and it 
was not discussed with him at the point of sale. 
As the complaint could not be settled informally, it has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr B in a face to face meeting. Looking at the 
documentation thats available to me, it looks as though Mr B already had a Halifax 
mortgage and the PPI was sold at the same time as a product transfer. In other words, that 
means Mr B kept his mortgage with Halifax but moved it to a different product. And PPI was 
sold when he was discussing moving the mortgage to that new product. 
I cant know what was said during that meeting. So to help me decide what is most likely to 
have occurred, Ive looked at what Mr B remembers about the sale. And Ive also considered 
the documentary and electronic evidence thats available from the time. 
I know Mr B feels strongly that PPI was added without his knowledge. But looking at the 
electronic evidence, I can see there was a discussion about the PPI policy and several 
questions were seemingly asked about PPI at the meeting. I can see that only the 
unemployment cover was selected for this policy, which indicates there was some 
discussion about which components of the TMPP were right for his circumstances. 
Mr B would have also most likely had to complete a separate direct debit mandate for 
payments of the premium to be taken separately from his bank account. I think if the PPI had 
been added without Mr Bs knowledge, he would have queried what those additional 
payments being taken from his account were. I accept that what Mr B told us is what he 
genuinely remembers about the sale of the cover. But it is difficult to remember precisely 
what happened over ten years ago  which is when this cover was sold. On balance, 
although I appreciate Mr B doesnt recall, I think PPI most likely was discussed at the point 
of sale and that he knew he could refuse it if he didnt want the cover. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. So that means Halifax had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the cover was right for Mr B. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought carefully about what 
we know of Mr Bs circumstances at the relevant time. 
Looking at the terms of the cover, I can see that if Mr B had to make a claim, his mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months if he was made redundant. I know 
that Mr B had been in his job for some considerable time at that point, but I think the cover 
would have lasted for longer than his redundancy pay. 
Mr B told us that he didnt need the PPI cover because his family members could have 
helped him if he ran into financial difficulties. I dont doubt that it would have been the 
intention of those family members to assist him in such circumstances. But circumstances 
can change and there is no guarantee that help would have been available to Mr B as and 
when he needed it. 
Ive next considered whether any of the policys limitations would have made it more difficult 
for Mr B to make a claim. But I havent seen anything unusual about his employment 
circumstances that would have meant he was affected by any of the exclusions. So it looks 
to me as though Halifaxs recommendation was suitable for Mr B. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mr B enough information about the cover so he could 
decide for himself whether the policy was a good fit for his needs. That information should 
have been clear, fair and not misleading. I accept its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mr B 
everything it should have done about the PPI cover. But Ive set out above how the cover 
could have been helpful if Mr B was made redundant. So I dont think he would have acted 
differently even if Halifax had given him more or better information about the PPI. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr B, but for the reasons set out above, I cant reasonably say PPI 
was mis-sold. So I dont uphold the complaint and I dont require Halifax to take any further 
action in respect of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman