DRN-3939155
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society restricted his account which has caused 
financial hardship. 
What happened
Nationwide placed a restriction on Mr Ws account, meaning he had to visit a branch in order 
to carry out transactions, as long as a reasonable reason was provided. Mr W says this was 
an inconvenience due to his mobility issues and meant he had to borrow funds from his 
brother. 
Mr Ws representative, who Ill call P for simplicity, raised a complaint on his behalf. This was 
about the restriction that had been placed on the account, as well as issues they 
experienced while in a Nationwide branch, and because a clear explanation had not been 
received about why the restriction had been applied. 
Nationwide issued a final response in which it explained that they have a duty to safeguard 
their customers and this is why a restriction was placed on Mr Ws account. They said that 
Mr W could still make transactions but had to do so in branch. They also confirmed that the 
branch staff had acted in line with their internal policies. So, they did not agree that an error 
had occurred. 
Mr W referred the complaint to our service and focussed on the account restriction. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and felt that while the restrictions were frustrating,     
Mr W did still have access to his funds if he visited a branch. They said that Nationwide was 
able to review Mr Ws accounts if they had concerns and did not have to disclose the 
reasons for this, so they did not agree that Nationwide had made an error in the 
circumstances. 
P disagreed with this as he said Mr W was unable to visit a branch due to mobility issues, so 
this was still negatively affecting him.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think 
Nationwide acted reasonably when it placed restrictions on Mr Ws account, so I dont think it 
has made an error. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Firstly, Id like to clarify that Nationwide has now confirmed that the restriction has been 
lifted, just over three months after it was initially placed.
Ive firstly considered if Nationwide was acting fairly when it applied the restriction. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the account that were relevant at the time. Section 37 
states that they can suspend or cancel a customers right to use certain services if they think 
it is reasonably necessary for a customers protection. It goes on to say that they will try to 
provide warning of this unless it could compromise their reasonable security measures. 
Looking at this, Im satisfied that Nationwide was acting within the terms and conditions 
when it placed restrictions on Mr Ws account and did not provide an explanation for this. Ive 
looked at Nationwides reasoning for this and the evidence they have relied upon to reach 
that decision and having done so I think they placed the restrictions fairly and reasonably. I 
appreciate it must be frustrating for Mr W to not have a clear understanding of why this has 
occurred, but I want to assure him that this was done with the safety of his account in mind. 
Ive considered the delay in the restrictions being lifted, and the fact that Mr Ws mobility 
issues meant this delay has caused him financial difficulty. Ive reviewed Nationwides 
actions while the investigation was ongoing and having done so, I dont think the 
investigation was unnecessarily delayed in any significant way. Even with Mr Ws health 
issues in mind, the time taken to come to a safe outcome for the investigation was needed, 
and I cant agree that Nationwide has acted unreasonably in the circumstances. 
In summary, having considered everything available to me, I think it was reasonable that 
Nationwide placed restrictions on Mr Ws account without providing an explanation as to 
why, and that it did so in line with the terms and conditions. And I cant see that there were 
unnecessary delays during the investigation which ended up in the restrictions being lifted. 
So, I dont think Nationwide needs to take any action to remedy this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman