DRN-3155872
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr C received a text message saying a new payee had been set up on his account from an 
unrecognised device. He followed the link in the text and was taken to what appeared to be 
the HSBC website, where he was asked to enter his details and told he would receive a call 
from the HSBC fraud team from a specific number. Unfortunately, we now know this was all 
part of a scam.
Mr C was called by the scammers from the number he was told, and he says they went 
through a security procedure with him and then told him someone was trying to fraudulently 
send money out of his account so he should go into branch with ID to stop it. But before 
Mr C got to the branch he was called by the scammers again and told they now suspected 
the staff at his local branch were committing the fraud and they needed his help to 
investigate it.
Mr C says he was told by the scammers to generate a number of codes using his HSBC 
mobile banking app so they could run some tests. He was then told the scammers would 
transfer some money into his account and he then needed to transfer it back out, and they 
would catch the suspected fraudsters if they tried to stop the transfers. But what was actually 
happening was that the scammers used the codes Mr C generated to move all his savings 
into his current account, applied for a loan in his name and got him to transfer all this money 
to account details they had given him.
Mr C made a series of payments to the scammers over the following two days. Ive set out 
the payments below:
Date Amount Details
7 December 2021 £14,600 Loan funds into account
7 December 2021 £9,900 Payment out of account
7 December 2021 £10,000 Payment out of account
8 December 2021 £10,000 Payment out of account
8 December 2021 £10,000 Payment out of account
Mr C made the payments in branch, and HSBCs actual fraud team called him about several 
of them. But the scammers had told him to say the payments were for construction work on 
his house and to be assertive to make sure the payments went through. So Mr C told HSBC 
this and the payments were put through. It was only when Mr Cs wife came home that she 
realised it was a scam. Mr C then reported the payments to HSBC and asked that they be 
refunded.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, except in limited circumstances. HSBC 
investigated Mr Cs case but said one or more of the exceptions applies, specifically that 
Mr C had made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing they were legitimate. 
So it didnt think he was entitled to a full refund under the CRM code. HSBC accepted Mr C 
had been the victim of a scam though, so agreed to refund the loan that was taken out in his 
name and one of the £10,000 payments made. And it was able to reverse another of the 
£10,000 payments before it left Mr Cs account and recover £2,717.88 from the banks the 
payments went to. But Mr C wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Cs complaint. They didnt think HSBC had established 
that Mr C had made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing they were 
legitimate, or that any of the other exceptions to reimbursement applied. So they felt Mr C 
met the requirements to be fully reimbursed under the CRM code and recommended HSBC 
refund the money hed lost. HSBC disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has already refunded one of the £10,000 payments, as well as the loan taken out 
in Mr Cs name, and was able to reverse another of the £10,000 payments, Ive only 
considered the remaining payments of £9,900 and £10,000.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether HSBC 
should have reimbursed Mr C under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The CRM 
code places a level of care on Mr C too, so Ive considered whether he met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, HSBC is a signatory to the CRM code. The CRM code requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief?
Mr C received a text message with a link to what he says looked like an exact copy of 
HSBCs actual online banking website. The website asked him to log in to his account by 
entering his security details, as hed have expected from online banking. And the website 
then took him through a multi-step process to confirm or cancel the new payment instruction. 
So I think its reasonable that this will all have felt legitimate to Mr C.
The website then told Mr C hed receive a call from the fraud team on a specific number, 
which he did, and gave him a reference number, which the caller then asked for. The caller 
also went through security with him and was able to identify when he answered one of the 
security questions incorrectly. And Mr C says the caller sounded very professional, spoke to 
him in the same manner as other calls hed received from HSBC and didnt give him any 
reason to doubt the call. So I think its reasonable that Mr C thought the call was legitimate.
HSBC has said Mr C didnt verify the person he was talking to was connected to HSBC in 
any way. And its said he had several conversations with its fraud team and was told to lie to 
them, which should have raised concerns for him. But Mr C said the person on the phone 
went through security with him, including correctly identifying when he answered one of the 
security questions wrong. And he was told he would receive the call, on the number it was 
received from, by what appeared to be the genuine HSBC online banking website. So I dont 
think its reasonable to say he lacked a reasonable basis for belief that the caller was 
legitimate because he didnt carry out further checks himself.
And while Mr C did have several conversations with HSBCs actual fraud team, the scam 
had been going on for some time before he spoke to them, hed had several conversations 
with the scammer by that point and had been convinced the scam was genuine. As the 
scammer had gained Mr Cs trust and given him an explanation of why the fraud team would 
call and why he should lie to them, I dont think it was unreasonable that being asked to do 
so didnt cause Mr C more concern. And, having listened to calls between Mr C and the 
fraud team, I dont think the fraud team raised significant concerns with him about what was 
going on or clearly highlighted the possibility of similar scams to him. So I dont think the 
calls with the fraud team will have been enough to break the spell of the scam or mean that 
Mr C didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that the payment was for a genuine purpose.
This was clearly a sophisticated scam. The scammer spoke to Mr C several times, knew 
enough information about him and sounded professional and convincing enough to gain his 
trust. So I think Mr C did have a reasonable basis for belief that the scammer was legitimate 
and that the payments he was making were genuine.
Did Mr C ignore an effective warning?
The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.
The remaining payments of £9,900 and £10,000 were both done in branch. And while Mr C 
and HSBC both say Mr Cs identity was verified when he made the payments, HSBC hasnt been able to provide evidence from the time of what warnings Mr C was given about 
possible scams.
In one of the calls with Mr C, the HSBC fraud team does ask if he has been told to move 
money to a safe account and explains that, if this does turn out to be a scam, HSBC wont 
be responsible. But the fraud team doesnt explain that HSBC would never ask a customer 
to move money to a safe account or that scammers can spoof phone numbers and 
websites to appear genuine. It also doesnt explain what steps Mr C could take to spot or 
avoid falling victim to this kind of scam or that its unlikely Mr C would be able to recover the 
money if the payment goes through and it is a scam. So I dont think the information HSBC 
gave Mr C either in branch or during the calls with the fraud team was specific enough to be 
an effective warning in his circumstances.
So I dont think Mr C ignored an effective warning in relation to these payments.
Overall, Im not satisfied that any of the exceptions set out in the CRM code apply in this 
case. So I think HSBC should have refunded the full amount Mr C lost under the provisions 
of the CRM code.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to:
Refund Mr C the remaining £19,900 he lost as a result of this scam, less the 
£2,717.88 already recovered, for a total of £17,182.12
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on that refund from the date it initially rejected his claim 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman