DRN-1379664
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy bought during a telephone call in 2002 in connection with a 
credit card.
What happened
Mrs S complained to this Service. She said she didnt know she had PPI because she 
never discussed it. She says there was no telephone call and she says Capital One cant 
prove that a telephone call did happen. It was not made clear to her the policy was 
optional. So she concludes the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note 
on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result for her. So Ill set out my reasons below.
Mrs S says she didnt know PPI was optional and wasnt aware that PPI had been added to 
her credit card account. But I could see that she first applied for the credit card on 21 
October 2002. Mrs S didnt buy the PPI until 31 October during a telephone call she made 
to Capital One to activate the credit card. She says this call did not happen and Capital 
One cant prove it did happen. However, I think it is reasonable to assume that as she was 
invited to make the call to activate the credit card, it is unlikely she would have been able to 
use the card until the call had been made. So I think the call probably did happen  even 
though she may not remember it - and she probably was aware the policy was optional 
because she was able to get the credit card before she bought the PPI during the call.
Capital One produced a telephone call script which it says was used around the time of the 
sale. The script instructs its representative to tell the customer that the PPI is optional and 
to obtain the customers consent to add it to the account. I dont know if the script would 
have been followed exactly, but its more likely that the Capital One representative would 
have mainly stuck to it. So based on the evidence of the choices available to Mrs S, I think 
Capital One made it clear to her that the policy was optional and that she had a chance to 
refuse her consent to the sale.
Capital One and Mrs S say the sale was non-advised. So for non-advised sales, Capital 
One didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs S  she would have had to 
do that for herself - but it did have to make sure she received enough clear information to 
make an informed choice. Unfortunately, theres no recording of the call, so I will look at 
the documents and the facts the parties have given to us about the sale.
To help me decide whether Mrs S had enough clear information, I have looked at her 
financial circumstances to see if she would have thought the PPI was of any financial 
benefit to her and its affordability. So I looked at the cost of the policy compared to the 
benefits she would receive in return.
Capital One tells us the cost was 89p per £100 for 10% of the outstanding balance to be 
paid each month up to a maximum of 12 months for life, accident, sickness or 
unemployment cover - I dont know exactly how these details were explained to Mrs S 
during the telephone call. As its possible she may not have got clear information, I looked 
at what she told us about her finances at the time of the sale.
Mrs S told us she wouldnt have received any sick pay from her employer at the time of 
the sale. So I think its possible she still could have received a useful benefit from the PPI 
 particularly as she also told us she had no sick pay at that time. Also, as I think she 
chose to take out the cover, I think the PPI was likely to be of some benefit to her and that 
the policy was affordable. So I dont think she would have been put off from buying the 
policy even if the cost and benefits had been fully detailed.
Mrs S said she could have relied on her husband to pay her credit card repayments. I 
understand the point she is making but there was no guarantee that she still could have 
relied on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I still think the PPI could 
have been of benefit to her.
I also looked at whether the main things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions) had been 
explained to Mrs S. I dont know how or if she was told about them during the telephone 
call, but I dont think it would have mattered to her. Her circumstances were that she was 
eligible for PPI cover, she was in employment and had no medical conditions at the time 
of the sale. So, I think its unlikely she would have been affected by the main exclusions. 
So again, I dont think she would have been put off from buying the policy even if the main 
exclusions had been listed in full because they were not likely to have any impact on her.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was optional and I dont think that any more 
detailed information would have put Mrs S off from buying the PPI. So Im not going to 
uphold this complaint.
All of the above means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
S. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - including what she said about the policy not 
being shown as optional and not having the initial telephone call with Capital One. But these 
points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman