DRN-3904122
The complaint
Miss S complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED, trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook) 
lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss S was approved for one loan in June 2019 which was for £1,000 repayable over 
12 payments at £115.96 each month. After a month Miss S informed Oakbrook she was 
taking advice and entering a debt management plan. 
Oakbrook responded to the complaint with its Final Response letter (FRL) dated 
28 September 2022 in which it explained it had relied on the information Miss S had given to 
it about her income and expenditure, it had verified her income using an on-line tool, it had 
used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to double check the information she had given 
it and had decided she could afford the £115 each month. Oakbrook carried out a credit 
search and explained that there was nothing in that set of results to lead it to be concerned 
as to affordability. One default had been registered in the past but that was two years earlier 
and so it did not consider that to have been a concern. So, it did not uphold her complaint. 
Miss S referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
adjudicators came to the same view. Miss S income was just under £1,921 each month and 
she had to pay for other credit repayments of around £299 a month, excluding the Oakbrook 
repayment of £115.96. So, with the estimated living expenses Oakbrook had used, which 
our adjudicator found to have been reasonable, of just under £624 then it would have left 
Miss S with around £800 of disposable income each month. And that ONS estimate was 
despite Miss S having informed Oakbrook she was living at home with her parents. So, our 
adjudicator did not uphold Miss S complaint.
Miss S disagreed and on 12 December 2022 told us that she was going to send to us a copy 
of her own credit file report to support her claim. Nothing has been received. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Oakbrook completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss S would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Miss S wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Oakbrook did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss S and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Oakbrook to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss S ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Miss S. In practice this meant that Oakbrook had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Miss S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oakbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon 
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, 
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss S complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Miss S complaint 
and the following paragraphs explain why. But broadly they are for the same reasons as 
those given by our adjudicator. 
For a loan of this size and for the term length where Miss S was a new customer to 
Oakbrook, Id have expected it to have verified her income, considered her expenditure and, 
if it felt it needed to, obtain up to date information about the level of debt Miss S was in.
Miss S had informed them that she was living with her parents and despite this Oakbrook 
factored in what a persons usual living expenses would have been in the area in which she 
was living. And it verified her income and it did carry out a credit search. The summary was 
set out in the FRL and I duplicate that below. The reference to you is to Miss S, and the 
reference to CCJ is to County Court Judgments. 
Having reviewed your credit record at the time of your application, we found the 
following information:
You had not been in arrears in the last six months.
You had a low Debt-to-Income ratio of 5.6%.
You had no CCJs registered against you within 36 months of your application.You had no defaults registered against you within 24 months of your application.
You were not in arrears on any of your priority debts.
You were not in arrears on any of your financial commitments.
You had a monthly repayment size of £115.96 representing less than 6.0% of your 
monthly income.
You were not in Bankruptcy or in an IVA.
In the six months prior to your application with us you had taken out only one Payday 
Loan.
And I have seen from Oakbrooks summary of the credit search results that Miss S had six 
active accounts (which can include a bank account). She had an overall debt burden of 
about £1,600. The active debt repayments each month were £299. All debt is uncomfortable 
but within the context of Oakbrook carrying out its checks before deciding whether to lend to 
Miss S, Id not consider that a high level of debt. 
Oakbrook had picked up that Miss S had a defaulted account from March 2017 but it was far 
enough in the past not to cause it a concern and I do not find that approach unreasonable. 
Lenders of high cost credit such as Oakbrook often lend to customers who may have some 
adverse entries on their credit file. Its not a reason, on its own, to decline a loan application. 
As Ive said earlier in the decision, what the regulators expect of lenders is that they carried 
out proportionate checks before approving a loan. Here I am satisfied that Oakbrook did that 
and it considered that the loan was affordable. 
I do not uphold Miss S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman