DRN-2985250
The complaint
Mr R complained that a debit card issued by TSB Bank plc for his account could not be used 
for transactions and despite numerous attempts and phone calls, the problem remains 
unresolved.
What happened
Mr Rs complaint is brought to this service by a third party under an active power of attorney. 
Where appropriate, I will refer to this person as the POA who is acting on behalf of Mr R.
Mr R maintains a banking relationship with TSB. He is considered to be a financially 
vulnerable person and so the POA generally acts on his behalf in respect of all financial 
matters. The POA was provided with a debit card for use with an account Mr R holds with 
TSB. 
During late 2020, Mr R moved to a new property. The move led to a requirement for various 
purchases in order that the new property would be habitable for him. Following a retail 
purchase in November 2020, the POA discovered that the debit card issued to them couldnt 
be used for direct payments. So, the POA contacted TSB to report the problem.
The POA had also requested that a partial block be applied to another account in Mr Rs 
name to prevent important allocated funds from being withdrawn. But they said the account 
was marked with a full block so that no payments or withdrawals could be made. The POA 
also said that their telephone number was incorrectly recorded in TSBs records. This meant, 
among other things, that they couldnt have access to TSBs online banking facility.
The POA complained to TSB in November 2020 on behalf of Mr R listing the various 
problems. They wanted TSB to resolve the problem with the debit card issued, correct their 
telephone records and ensure a partial block was successfully recorded on Mr Rs account. 
TSB apologised for the problems experienced and agreed to pay £50 for any distress and 
inconvenience and £25 to cover expenses incurred. They agreed to issue a replacement 
debit card. But when this card arrived, the POA was unable to use it. 
The POA contacted TSB again to reopen the complaint. Further replacement cards were 
issued including a simple ATM (cash withdrawal) card. On each occasion, the POA wasnt 
able to use the card to make direct purchases or use Mr Rs online banking facility. As a 
temporary resolution the POA had to transfer money between different accounts in order to 
make purchases.
The POA said theyd spoken to a number of different TSB staff, face to face and over the 
telephone. They said that phone calls were long and numerous, calls werent returned when 
promised and some calls were disconnected. This resulted in the POA having to call back 
and explain the problems all over again.
TSB wrote to the POA on 8 March 2021. They apologised for the problems experienced. 
Theyd discovered that the debit card issues were a known technical error for which there 
was currently not a resolution. They suggested a workaround until a resolution could be 
found. TSB offered a further £75 for any distress and inconvenience and £23 to cover 
associated expenses.
The POA wasnt happy with TSBs response. They thought that the service provided was 
generally poor and the workaround suggested was impractical. They also thought that TSB 
had taken an unreasonable length of time to respond when the complaint was reopened. 
They were unhappy that TSB staff had refused to provide personal information and contact 
details or allow them to speak to a manager. So, the complaint was referred to this service.
One of our investigators considered all the details of the complaint together with information 
provided by TSB and the POA on behalf of Mr R. As part of her findings, she explained that 
under the dispute rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA, DISP rules), this 
service could only consider TSBs actions within the context of how they affected Mr R. Any 
impact on the POA could not be considered on the basis that they werent the consumer in 
this case. She thought that the impact on Mr R had been minimal. So, she didnt propose 
that TSB needed to do anything more.
Acting on behalf of Mr R, the POA didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, they 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain this services role and limitations when considering 
complaints. This service is approved to be an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) entity by 
the FCA. Our current role was approved in July 2015 as part of a European Law called the 
ADR directive.
The way that complaints should be considered is set out in the FCAs dispute handbook (the 
DISP rules). These rules detail what this service can and cant consider and also defines an 
eligible complainant. For the purposes of this complaint, DISP 2.7 says that an eligible 
complainant includes a person that isa consumerwho is a customer, payment service 
userof the respondent (TSB).
So, its important to understand that Mr R, in this case, is TSBs customer. While the POA 
has the power to act on Mr Rs behalf, as an individual, the POA doesnt have the 
customer/bank relationship here. This means that under the FCAs current DISP rules, this 
service can only consider a complaint in respect of the relationship between Mr R and TSB 
and what, if any, impact there was on Mr R specifically.
TSB have acknowledged that there remains an existing technical problem when issuing a 
debit card for use by a POA on an individuals account with them. Theyve admitted that the 
problem is still under investigation and isnt unique to Mr Rs situation. No immediate 
resolution is anticipated but theyve confirmed that the POA will be advised as soon as a 
resolution is developed.
Its unfortunate that TSB were unable to identify and explain this problem at the time. I also 
acknowledge that the POA has invested a considerable amount of time and energy in 
attempting to reach a resolution with TSB. But given the POAs relationship with TSB here, 
Im not able to consider any impact this may have had upon them. Only the impact on Mr R.
The POA has explained they took steps to enable them to make the essential purchases on 
Mr Rs behalf. So, on the face of it, while I appreciate that the POA was personally 
inconvenienced by TSBs failures here, it doesnt appear that this ultimately had a negative 
impact on Mr R. That isnt to say that there might not be further issues as a result, but I can 
only consider what has happened, not what might or could happen in the future.
The same principle applies in respect of the POAs experiences with TSB in trying to resolve 
the problems experienced. I completely understand their frustrations at having to make numerous calls and visits to TSB branches. Particularly when the problems had to be 
explained afresh each time. 
I believe that any issues relating to the partial block on Mr Rs account didnt ultimately lead 
to funds being withdrawn inappropriately. Furthermore, I understand that the POAs personal 
telephone contact details are now recorded correctly with TSB. So, I am pleased that these 
issues are, at least, now resolved.
Accepting the customer/bank relationship in this situation, TSB have acknowledged their 
failings here. Theyve also made payments to reflect any distress and inconvenience despite 
the POAs position. Generally, I think this was a fair approach for TSB to take in the 
circumstances.
The POA responded to our investigators view on this complaint. They commented 
specifically upon the adequacy and appropriateness of the DISP rules that this service 
follows. But as these are set by the FCA, it doesnt fall within the remit of this service to set 
or vary their content or reach. 
The POA also said that our investigators decision does not impose any penalty or remedy. 
Its important to recognise that our role is to provide a fair and impartial service to help settle 
disputes. Its not a regulatory one. Neither is it our role to penalise financial institutions where 
they make a mistake. Where a mistake has been made, we can award an amount that we 
consider fair compensation to ensure a customer hasnt lost out financially. While we may 
also consider awards to reflect distress and inconvenience, that isnt possible here given the 
POAs relationship and standing with TSB.
So overall, Ive not been provided with anything that persuades me that Mr R has himself 
been impacted financially. Or, that he suffered any direct distress and inconvenience as a 
result of TSBs action here. Accepting that TSB have agreed and made monetary awards for 
the POAs experiences here, I shant be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman