DRN-1278607
 
The complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1998, Mrs W applied for a Halifax credit card in a branch meeting. At the same time, 
Halifax sold her PPI to protect her repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mrs W disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Halifax had to make it clear to Mrs W that it was optional. She says 
she cant recall it being discussed. Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ws signed credit card application 
form which included a box that appears to have been marked to indicate she wanted PPI. 
On balance, I think it likely PPI was selected following a discussion about it between the 
adviser and Mrs W. I believe Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and that Mrs W 
agreed to have it. But its understandable if she doesnt remember that now after all this 
time.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs W. So, Halifax had to look into whether the 
policy was right for Mrs W. From what Ive seen I cant say that Halifax took all the steps it 
should have. But, I think the PPI was right for Mrs W in any case because, for example:
Based on my understanding of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, she was eligible 
for the PPI. And, while the PPI had certain exclusions to, or limits on, the cover, I 
cant see that shed have been significantly affected by them. 
Mrs W says shed have been paid in full for three months and received half pay for a 
further three months if she was off work sick. The PPI benefits would have paid out 
for longer, at up to 12 months per claim. It covered her for unemployment too. I 
recognise she had savings, but the PPI would have allowed her to retain them or use 
them towards covering her other living costs if she wasnt working. Overall, I think the 
PPI provided her with useful additional protection.Theres nothing to suggest the premium was unaffordable for Mrs W. And the PPI 
was flexible in that Mrs W could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if 
she decided she no longer wanted it.
 
Halifax also should have given Mrs W enough information for her to make up her own mind 
about whether the PPI was right for her. I dont know that it did that but, on the same 
grounds I think the PPI was right for Mrs W, I see no reason why better information about it 
would have put her off taking it.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. But 
Halifax will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mrs W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Halifax should also pay back to Mrs W 
any extra interest she paid because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs W the difference 
between what Mrs W owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mrs W 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax. 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Halifax plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman