DRN-3857548
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt accepted a promissory note in repayment of 
a credit card account and shouldnt be pursuing him for the balance of this account.
What happened
In 2021, Mr F wrote to HSBC requesting a data subject access request (DSAR) and included 
a promissory note which he said should be treated as repayment of a credit card debt. Later, 
HSBC sent Mr F a default notice which explained its intention to take further action in 
respect of a credit card account in Mr Fs name with it. 
Mr F complained about this, explaining why he felt that the legal position here was that 
because HSBC hadnt returned his promissory note  then it had, in effect, accepted it. Mr F 
also said that as HSBC couldnt provide him with a copy of an original signed agreement for 
the credit card, that the agreement was unenforceable. Mr F further raised issues in how 
HSBC had responded to his DSAR.
HSBC responded to say that it did not accept promissory notes like the one Mr F sent it, 
because it isnt a monetary form of payment. It then explained what it would do with the 
credit card account moving forward if the default notice wasnt satisfied. Mr F wasnt happy 
with this and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the matter and said that HSBC was entitled not to accept the 
promissory note as payment here. They said it wasnt legal tender and HSBC wasnt obliged 
to accept or return it. Mr F disagreed and didnt feel that the investigator had fully taken into 
account the relevant law and that HSBC had never proven that there was a debt here.
Our investigator then looked at issues around the way HSBC handled the DSAR from Mr F. 
They said that HSBC hadnt actioned this because the signature provided on the DSAR 
submitted and the one held for Mr F didnt match. Our investigator thought this was fair. The 
case was then passed to an ombudsman to reach a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has clearly done a lot of research into what he feels are relevant laws and legislation to 
support his complaint. Based on this he feels very strongly that HSBC should treat the 
promissory note as a valid payment. Ive had regard for all hes said and sent us, alongside 
taking into account what the relevant law says too (in particular the Bills of Exchange Act 
1882). Having done so, I cant see any reason that it would be fair or reasonable to tell 
HSBC that it should accept the promissory note here. Nor do I think that HSBC has dealt 
with the situation around this unreasonably. 
A promissory note like the one here isnt legal tender and nor is it strictly money at all. Its a 
promise to pay a sum at some future date (or dates). But it doesnt mean that HSBC had to 
accept this promise and arrangement over any other such binding arrangement it may 
already have with Mr F in respect of his credit card. Here, I dont accept that, by not returning 
the note, HSBC should be viewed as having accepted it. Thats especially in light of HSBC 
being very clear that it hasnt accepted it and having explained why. If Mr F wants to make a 
payment towards the debt here, he remains free to do so using a method that HSBC will 
accept.
I realise that Mr F feels that in light of this, HSBC shouldnt be pursuing the debt and that it is 
unenforceable. Hes also mentioned that HSBC has never shown him that its legally entitled 
to pursue him for this. Mr Fs legal arguments around the relevant law and legislation here 
are better suited for a court to deal with  this service doesnt have the same powers. 
Instead, were a quick and informal service that looks at whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of a case.
Having done so here, HSBC has acted fairly in declining to accept the promissory note. I 
also think that, where HSBCs records show that Mr F had an account with it for a number of 
years and that he owes it money  its entitled to ask him to repay this. If Mr F feels that the 
debt is unenforceable for any reason  he can take that dispute further outside of this 
service, perhaps through the courts.
Finally, HSBC has explained why it didnt deal with the DSAR here. It had concerns that the 
relevant signatures on the request and their records didnt match. Thats a fair concern to 
have about such an important and sensitive request and one based on genuine concerns 
from what Ive seen. So Im satisfied its acted fairly here too. If Mr F wants to pursue his 
DSAR, he can contact HSBC again to see what else can be done to get this processed. But 
overall, there is nothing for me to tell HSBC to do here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman