DRN-3697938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) applied markers against 
their names on the National Hunter database in connection with a joint mortgage application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied for a mortgage with Yorkshire in August 2021. It appears that Mr and 
Mrs A told Yorkshire not to proceed with the application, but despite this it left markers on 
the National Hunter database. The National Hunter database is a cross-industry fraud 
prevention database which allows financial services providers to share relevant information, 
subject to safeguards.
Yorkshire said it hadnt done anything wrong, and that it wasnt prepared to remove the 
markers. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He said Yorkshire applied the markers because it 
had concerns about the income Mr A had declared in the mortgage application.
In the application Mr A said he worked for a limited company (E) that Mrs A is a director of. 
The application showed that Mr A earned an annual basic income of around £46,000.
The application recorded that in August 2021 Mr A benefited from a significant increase in 
his income  from around £797 per month to around £3,851. Mrs A says that was because 
Mr A had been working part time before August 2021. Mr and Mrs A provided some payslips 
and bank statements to support this. Es accountant has also confirmed this is what 
happened.
Yorkshire says that Mr and Mrs A complained about the markers in in December 2021. 
Yorkshire says they went on to apply for another mortgage with it in January 2022. This 
application was declined. Mr and Mrs A provided Yorkshire with more information after that 
to show what Mr As income was in 2022. Mrs A provided Yorkshire with an HMRC income 
statement which showed Mr As monthly income was £3,851 between August 2021 and 
January 2022 and that he started a new job with another business (on a similar salary) in 
March 2022.
Our investigator considered this information and the information Yorkshire provided us about 
what it did to consider the information provided. He thought Yorkshire had reasonable 
grounds to suspect it had received false information in support of a mortgage application. So 
he didnt think that Yorkshire had made a mistake when it recorded the information on the 
National Hunter database. He didnt recommend that Yorkshire remove the markers.
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. Mrs A says that before and after they 
applied for the mortgage with Yorkshire in August 2021 they applied for a mortgage with a 
number of other lenders. All the mortgages were declined, and various markers were applied 
to cross-industry fraud prevention databases. Mr and Mrs A have complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service about the markers recorded in connection with all those 
mortgage applications.
Mrs A says the same financial information was provided to all the financial businesses. 
However, another of our investigators upheld their complaints in relation to the markers 
recorded by two of the lenders. In those complaints the investigator said that while he 
thought the relevant businesses had reasonable grounds to suspect that theyd received 
false information in support of a mortgage application, Mr and Mrs A had gone on to provide 
evidence to counter any inconsistencies in their income. So he thought that the markers 
should be removed and that they were compensated for what happened. However, in cases 
considered more recently  including this one  a different outcome had been reached. 
So Mr and Mrs A thought that the investigator in this case should reach a similar conclusion 
to the one reached in the previous complaint. 
Mrs A has also said:
since Mr As income increased in August 2021 he continued to earn what was 
declared and his income increased again when he changed jobs in March 2022. So 
Mrs A says there is no on-going risk of potential fraud. Mrs A thinks the markers 
should be removed in line with the reduction of potential threat.  
she doesnt think Yorkshire had enough evidence to apply the markers. She says she 
contacted Action Fraud and the police and was told that they didnt think there was 
enough evidence to prove a crime had been committed or even that this case could 
be confidently reported to the police.
Mrs A has also told us about the negative impact of the markers on her and Mr A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs A applied for the mortgage in 2021 Yorkshire considered the information 
and evidence it received in connection with the mortgage applications and carried out 
underwriting checks to try to confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to decide whether 
it wanted to lend. I think its worth saying here that there was no obligation on Yorkshire to 
lend money to Mr and Mrs A. It wasnt obliged to give reasons for refusing to do so either. 
When making a referral to the National Hunter database, Yorkshire had to have reasonable 
grounds for doing so. It didnt have to disclose the detail of those reasons to Mr and Mrs A.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why Yorkshire had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with the 
mortgage applications. I can see that when Yorkshire tried to verify the information Mr and 
Mrs A had provided with a relevant third party, but it was unable to do so.
In the circumstances I would expect Yorkshire to carry out a further investigation into Mr and 
Mrs As mortgage application. Having considered the information it has provided us with, Im 
satisfied that Yorkshire carried out a full review of Mr and Mrs As file as I would expect it to 
do.
Mrs A has said that she doesnt think Yorkshire had enough evidence to apply the markers. She says she contacted Action Fraud and the police and was told that they didnt think there 
was enough evidence to prove a crime had been committed or even that this case could be 
confidently reported to the police.
I appreciate what Mrs A has told us, but its not clear what Mrs A said exactly, or whether 
those bodies were aware of all the evidence that Ive been provided with when they said 
what Mrs A says they did. 
My role is to consider this complaint on the basis of all the information available to me, to 
decide whether it was reasonable for Yorkshire to conclude that the standard for making a 
report was met.
Having considered all the information available to Yorkshire, Im not persuaded that it acted 
unfairly when it recorded the markers.
The next question I need to consider is whether Yorkshire should remove the markers now. 
Mrs A thinks they should be removed. She says thats because she and Mr A didnt commit 
fraud, and because the investigator that considered two of her other complaints said the 
relevant lenders should remove the markers theyd applied and compensate Mr and Mrs A 
because he thought that theyd provided him with evidence to counter any inconsistencies 
about their income in the relevant mortgage applications. Mrs A says the same information 
was provided to all the relevant lenders, so the markers Yorkshire applied should be 
removed too.
I think its worth saying here that Im not bound by the conclusion the investigator reached in 
those complaints. However, Ive considered those complaints, as well as all of Mr and Mrs 
As other complaints against the other lenders Ive referred to in this decision. I have a wide 
investigative remit. So my role is to take all the available evidence into account when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in this complaint. And I think its important to note that 
since those complaints were considered by the investigator, more information and context  
including from the other complaints that have been brought  has become available.  
Mr As income increased substantially in August 2021. Mrs A has told us thats because he 
started working full time with E in August 2021 after working part time before this. She says 
Mr A continued to earn what was declared in the mortgage application and that Mr As 
income increased again when he changed jobs in March 2022.
Ive considered the information Mr and Mrs A have provided about Mr As income in this 
complaint. That shows that Mr A worked for E until January 2022. Ive considered that 
information alongside the information Mr and Mrs A provided in connection with their other 
complaints and the investigations the relevant lenders carried out in those complaints. Im 
conscious that when the other lenders checked the information provided to them 
discrepancies were found. And Ive also noted inconsistencies between the information Mr 
and Mrs A gave to the different lenders. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require Yorkshire to remove the markers. 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs A have told us that the impact of the markers on them and 
their strength of feeling about this matter. However, I dont think Yorkshire acted 
unreasonably in recording markers on the National Hunter database. Nor do I think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to require Yorkshire to remove the markers now or to 
compensate Mr and Mrs A for what happened.
I recognise that this decision is likely be disappointing for Mr and Mrs A. But based on what 
Ive seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Yorkshire to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman