DRN-2297151
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the service she received after making a claim on her home 
emergency policy with British Gas Insurance limited.
What happened
Mrs W holds a home emergency policy with British Gas. Throughout this complaint Mrs W 
has been represented at various times by her husband Mr W.
Mr W called to make claim on Mrs Ws policy as there was an issue with their plumbing. 
British Gas accepted the claim and agreed to send an engineer to fix the problem. But there 
was an issue with finding Mrs W and Mr Ws address. Mr W explained theyd moved address 
in 2016 and had informed British Gas of this, so it should have been updated then.
British Gas changed the address on the system and arranged an engineer to attend the 
property to try and fix the plumbing issue.
Mr W took the day off work and waited for the engineer to arrive. But despite changing the 
address on the system, British Gas sent the engineer to the old, incorrect address. This 
meant the appointment needed to be rebooked and Mr W took another day off work to be 
present for it. Mr W said he was on the phone for over two hours trying to sort this issue and 
wasnt happy with the service he was provided. He said the staff were often unhelpful, he 
was often on hold for long periods of time and was transferred multiple times.
The engineer attended the second appointment and the issue with the plumbing was fixed.
Mrs W made a complaint to British gas about the whole experience. She thought they should 
be compensated for Mr W taking two days off work and that his daily rate was between £450 
and £500. They also werent happy with the time spent calling British Gas to rectify the issue 
and the service they received while doing so.
British Gas acknowledged some errors it had made but didnt offer the amount of 
compensation Mrs W requested. In what it called a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mrs W an 
initial £70 which it later increased to £100.
Mrs W wasnt happy with this offer so rejected it and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
recognised British Gas had made errors and that these errors had caused Mrs W distress 
and inconvenience. But she thought that British Gass offer of £100 was fair compensation 
for this.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. I understand this will come as a disappointment for 
Mrs W. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mrs W is understandably unhappy with British Gas for what happened here. It should have 
updated her address when they moved home. Had it done so, its likely Mr W wouldnt have 
had any issue on the first call he made to make the claim. During this call British Gas 
changed the address. But it sent the engineer to the previous address. This meant Mr W 
was left waiting for an appointment that was never going to be met.
Mr W took the day off work to attend this appointment, so I can see why he and Mrs W are 
unhappy the engineer was sent to their old address. Mr W then spent a long time on the 
phone, trying to fix an error which could and should have been avoided.
That said, Im satisfied British Gass offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances. I 
understand Mrs W would like to be compensated in line with Mr Ws daily rate for the two 
days he took off work. But Im not recommending British gas do this. The policy doesnt 
cover Mrs W or Mr W for loss of earnings. Mrs or Mrs W were always likely to take some 
time off work to be available for the appointment. But understandably they would expect the 
engineer to be sent to the correct address and arrive on the day they were booked to attend.
What this means is the only time Mr W took off unnecessarily was the time for the first 
appointment. I can see from the information this was an afternoon appointment too. This is a 
private policy, so I dont think itd be reasonable to require British Gas to compensate Mr Ws 
professional daily rate.
But British Gass errors have caused Mrs W and Mrs W distress and inconvenience that 
could have been avoided. Mr W took time off work for an appointment that was, in reality, 
never going to be met as the engineer was sent to the wrong address. And he also had to 
make avoidable, frustrating telephone calls to rectify this issue.
However as mentioned above, Im satisfied British Gass offer of £100 is a fair and 
reasonable offer of compensation for this distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint 
against British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman