DRN-4516953
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost to a scam.
 
What happened
Some years ago, Ms M had a gambling problem. She says it started due to an abusive 
relationship she was in as she was trying to win money to run away. She sought help from a 
counselling service and managed to leave her relationship. However, after selling her home, 
moving in with her parents, dealing with covid-19, one of her parents becoming unwell and 
having to leave her job, her mental health suffered and she started gambling again.  
Ms M used her Revolut debit card to make a series of deposits with an online casino over 
nine months (from February 2022 to November 2022) totalling just under £417,000. That 
casino wasnt licensed in the UK. Towards the end of February 2022, Ms M asked the online 
casino to close her account but it enticed her with adding bonuses to her account so she 
could continue to gamble. Ms M eventually reported the casino to The UKs Gambling 
Commission and she was told by them that the casino was operating illegally and they 
couldnt help. 
Ms M asked Revolut to help her recover her payments via the chargeback scheme and she 
complained that it didnt do enough to protect her from financial harm. 
Revolut declined to refund Ms Ms transactions. It said her payments from February 2022 to 
July 2022 were out of time to be disputed in accordance with the chargeback rules. And for 
the payments taken after July 2022, it didnt find any valid chargeback grounds. It added that 
it offers some gambling protections to its customers in the form of a Gambling Block which 
would block payments to gambling houses or merchants from being completed. 
Unhappy with its response, Ms M referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things. He didnt think a more meaningful intervention 
from Revolut would have likely made a difference to Ms Ms loss. Ms M didnt agree and 
asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary she said:
Revolut should have recognised she was vulnerable in accordance with the FCAs 
guidance as she told them shed lost her job.
Revolut made it extremely difficult for her to process chargeback claims and 
suggested she make 350 individual chargebacks and didnt request additional 
evidence to support her claim.
It was unfair for our Investigator to conclude shed have gambled elsewhere if 
Revolut had stepped in and there is no evidence to support this.
If Revolut had stepped in sooner, it may have been able to process chargeback 
claims in time.
She started gambling with genuine sites when a pattern had already been made. 
Revolut offers an online chat tool only. If shed have spoken to a real person, they 
would have identified her panicked state.
Revolut asked her to provide her source of funds for £460,000 and said her account 
would be restricted unless she could provide this evidence, she didnt but it opened 
her account back up anyway. 
On 23 November 2023, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I may not comment on every piece of evidence submitted, I ensure both sides, Ive 
reviewed all submissions and evidence provided before making my decision. 
Im sorry to learn about whats happened to Ms M and the impact this ordeal has had on her. 
Ive noted Ms Ms comments on her vulnerability but I dont think I can reasonably say 
Revolut ought to have known just how difficult Ms Ms personal circumstances were at the 
time she started paying the casino. My view on this changes based on information Ms M 
disclosed to Revolut during the course of her disputed payments and the unusual account 
activity, which Ill explain further in my decision. 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Ms M for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Ms M using the legitimate security credentials provided to her 
by Revolut. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Ms M was the 
victim of a scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her account, Ms M is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive first considered whether or not I think the casino is a scam. Its clearly unlicensed and, I 
understand, shouldnt be offering its services to customers in the UK. I also note that other 
users have reported being unable to withdraw funds and have alleged that they were 
scammed. Ive further noted Ms Ms reported practices of the casinos persistent contact and 
refusal to allow her to close her account. Finally, Ive taken into account the comments from 
the Gambling Commission which reports the casinos illegal activity and references action 
fraud. Taking all of this into account, on balance, I think its most likely that the casino is a 
scam, despite the fact it appears to still be in operation. Having reviewed Ms Ms Revolut statements, the transactions appear, unsurprisingly, to be 
consistent with gambling. In my judgement, the payments were very frequent and amounted 
to a significant sum over many months. I think quite early on (on 11 February 2022 where 
five payments totalling just over £18,000 were debited from Ms Ms account), the frequency 
and rapidity of the payments ought to have prompted Revolut to make enquiries of Ms M. 
But, had it done that, Im not persuaded her loss would have been prevented at this stage. 
I dont necessarily think that Revolut would reasonably have been able to identify the casino 
was operating fraudulently had it intervened on 11 February 2022. Had it questioned the 
payments (as I think it should reasonably have), Ms M wouldnt yet have had issues with the 
casinos persistent contact. Ive seen there were negative reviews about the casino online 
but these reviews were around difficulties with withdrawals (not a problem Ms M had 
experienced). So there doesnt appear to have been much in the public domain to suggest 
the casino was operating fraudulently. 
Its also important to note that, in my experience, scams involving fraudulent casinos arent a 
common type of scam that firms should be all that familiar with. Thats likely to be because 
there are huge numbers of legitimate casinos online, correctly licensed in the UK, many of 
which are household names, which offer the same service (or very similar services) without 
the risk of fraud. 
So, I wouldnt necessarily expect Revolut to be aware of this specific risk. It would have (for 
the majority of the transactions) simply seen payments going to various payment processors. 
And it doesnt appear that Ms M had asked Revolut to apply any gambling blocks to her 
account. 
I wouldnt have expected Revoluts initial enquiries to go beyond establishing the nature of 
the payments and that Ms M was willingly making them. It should reasonably have also 
given a warning broadly covering various scam risks. But, given the unusual nature of this 
scam, I cant see that any of those enquiries would have made a difference to Ms Ms 
decision to go ahead. I dont think Revolut reasonably ought to have uncovered that the 
casino was operating without a license. 
In March 2022, Revolut intervened as it had further queries around the source of Ms Ms 
funds. I think these checks were proportionate to the risks identified by Revolut at the time. I 
dont think it should have had concerns that Ms M was a money laundering risk after she 
provided further information. I also dont think there were grounds to suspect Ms M could be 
falling victim to a fraud or scam. However, I have noted that Ms M disclosed she received 
her last payslip from her employer as she had left her employment. Ms M also disclosed she 
was paying an online casino, which are important factors Ill come back to later. 
While the merchants may have changed in the coming months, the pattern of activity was 
broadly the same, though the number of different merchants being paid was increasing. By 4 
May 2022, I think Revolut should have reasonably suspected very unusual account activity 
on Ms Ms account. Ive noted Ms M made 21 payments (of broadly similar amounts) to 21 
new payees totalling £23,255.72. I think it would have been reasonable for Revolut to have 
intervened as I think the pattern of the transactions were very unusual for Ms M considering 
her activity up until that point. These were the most new payees shed paid in a single day 
and also the largest sum shed paid in a single day. 
I dont think Revolut needed to interrogate Ms M but I think it could have asked some 
relatively probing but simple questions about what Ms M was doing. But this was against the 
backdrop of Revolut being aware - based on its previous conversations with Ms M  that she 
had left her employment and had discussed paying an online casino. Ive also noted that in 
August 2022, Revolut queried transactions with Ms M which it said was a routine check. Ms 
M explained they were payments to a casino and she didnt have access to her account with the casino due to not winning and spending too much money. She said she asked to self-
exclude so she can no longer access it. Therefore, I think if Revolut had intervened as I 
reasonably think it should have in May 2022, Revolut could have reasonably identified that 
none of the payments were actually going towards a gambling merchant, this should have 
been a red flag. I think a reasonable next question would have been to ask Ms M the name 
of the gambling merchant. By 4 May 2022, there were multiple scam reviews about the 
casino. 
I therefore think Revolut could have reasonably explained to Ms M that the transactions 
werent coded as gambling transactions. I think this would have been a concern to Revolut 
given the stringent expectations the card schemes place on merchant acquirers providing 
the facilities for merchants conducting high risk gambling services. As a card issuer itself and 
a financial professional, I think it ought to have reasonably been aware of this. And so, a 
merchant avoiding being coded correctly by using various overseas payment processors that 
dont provide gambling services should have been unusual and, in my judgement, 
suspicious. I think Revolut could have also explained that there were many online reviews 
that indicated the casino was operating a scam. 
I think the conversation that followed would have been similar to Ms Ms conversation with 
Revolut in August 2022. In other words, I think Ms M would have likely explained that she 
was trying to self-exclude from the casino as shed spent too much money (thats because 
Ms M had tried to close her account with the casino multiple times from towards the end of 
February 2022). 
Ive noted Revoluts comments that when it intervened in Ms Ms transactions she expressed 
her intention to move her funds away from its platform due to the source of funds 
restrictions. It pointed to her comment that said: If you wont accept that and I cant use my 
account then just close it and Ill use my normal bank account going forwards. Revolut 
suggests that she had no intention of discontinuing her behaviour or explaining the scenario 
to Revolut if it did intervene. I dont agree. In the messages that followed the one Ive just 
quoted, Ms M did answer Revoluts questions by providing her payslip and explained she 
was playing online bingo. In my judgement, whilst Ms M has been frustrated and panicked at 
times when Revolut restricted her account  I think her frustration was understandable as 
Revolut didnt provide clear reasoning when it decided to restrict her account. Ms M has 
been honest in her interactions with Revolut and I dont think shed have evaded questions 
from it. 
So, I think, if Revolut had asked simple questions on 4 May 2022, Ms M would have likely 
answered them honestly. If Revolut had noticed (as I think it should have reasonably 
noticed) the reviews about the casino and the fact that the transactions werent processed as 
gambling transactions, it would have had reasonable grounds to suspect that Ms M could be 
falling victim to a scam. I think if Revolut had expressed its concerns, armed with this new 
knowledge, Ms M would have likely explained that she had asked the casino to close her 
account but they wouldnt allow her to. With further reasonable questions, I think Ms M would 
have probably disclosed that she had a gambling problem. At which point, I think Revolut 
should have been able to review what it already knew about Ms M  that shed recently left 
her employment, that the transactions matched that of compulsive gambling spend and that 
she was likely dealing with a scammer who wouldnt leave her alone. Piecing all of this 
together should have led Revolut to suspect that Ms M was vulnerable in accordance with 
the FCAs 2021 guidance on vulnerability. I recognise that Revolut has pointed to Ms M 
thankfully not being without employment for very long as she appeared to have found a new 
job shortly after leaving her previous one. But that doesnt change what I think Revolut 
should have reasonably suspected with the information it was already aware of, albeit I think 
it could have obtained some of this information sooner.  At this stage, I think Revolut would have reasonably offered to place gambling blocks on Ms 
Ms account. This is a service Revolut offered in its final response letter and I see no reason 
why it wouldnt have offered this service at the point of an intervention. With that being said, 
as none of the payments were coded as gambling transactions  something required for the 
gambling block to work - and there were multiple merchants, I dont think the gambling block 
would have been able to prevent Ms M sending payments to the casino. I think Revolut 
would have reasonably been aware of this so I think it could have sign posted Ms M to the 
Gambling Commission for further advice (as the expert). 
I think Ms M would have likely reached out to the Gambling Commission for help as Ive 
seen evidence that she contacted them to complain about the practices of the casino. The 
Gambling Commission advised Ms M on 19 October 2022 that the casino was operating 
without a license and they couldnt assist her. Ms M followed up with the Gambling 
Commission and Ive seen that Ms M continued to pay the casino a further nine payments 
totalling £2,904.73 from 29 October 2022 to 2 November 2022. I queried why Ms M 
continued to pay the casino after she was told they were operating without a license, she 
advised she didnt know they were a scam, she just thought they didnt have a license. She 
said it wasnt until the Gambling Commission issued its final response at the end of October 
2022. She said they pointed her to the direction of action fraud which made her realise it was 
a scam and not just an unlicensed company. 
Ive seen that Ms M received a response from the Gambling Commission on 28 October 
2022 where they apologised for causing her confusion in their earlier email. They referred 
Ms M to her bank and action fraud for further assistance. Ive seen that Ms M acknowledged 
this email on 3 November 2022 and sent follow up questions. Ive noted Ms M didnt send 
any further payments after 2 November 2022, so Im persuaded that the Gambling 
Commission helped her realise shed fallen victim to a scam in the way she describes. And 
when she realised shed fallen victim to a scam, she stopped sending payments to the 
casino. 
I think Revolut could have reasonably assisted Ms M in coming to this conclusion sooner if it 
had asked simple questions about Ms Ms account activity in May 2022. In my judgement, 
this was a missed opportunity to meaningfully intervene. I think if Ms M had realised shed 
fallen victim to a scam (which I think would have been more likely than not with Revoluts 
assistance), she wouldnt have sent any more money. Therefore, I think Revolut could have 
prevented some of her loss and missed opportunities to do so in its interactions with Ms M. 
To be specific, I think it would have been reasonable for Revolut to have intervened around 
the 15th payment on 4 May 2022 of £1,050.40. I think this payment is the most reasonable 
for an intervention on Revoluts part as Ms M had paid 12 new payees on 26th April 2022 
(though the sums were not the most Ms M had paid in a single day). This means I think 
Revolut could have reasonably prevented approximately £330,897 being lost to a scam. 
Ive noted there were other gambling transactions to legitimate websites during Ms Ms 
payments to the scam casino. But Ive also noted that Ms M says she self-excluded from 
these websites and the sums she paid them in comparison to the scam casino were 
significantly less. I dont think I can reasonably say she would have otherwise lost all of this 
money to gambling. Thats because legitimate gambling websites are obliged to follow their 
customers instructions when they tell them they want to stop. The very objective of any scam 
is to get as much money as possible from their victims and I think dealing with a scam was 
the primary cause of her paying such substantial sums.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).I understand that all of this happened when Ms M was in a very difficult space mentally and 
this was on the back of compulsive behaviour. But it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold 
Revolut completely responsible for her losses. From Ms Ms testimony and her interactions 
with Revolut over the course of her payments to the casino, its clear shes familiar with the 
high risks associated with her account activity and was aware she was losing substantial 
amounts of money. I also think its likely shed have used some (not all) of this money for 
legitimate gambling spend. I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
pay 50% of the loss from the point Ive recognised it could have made a difference. 
Finally, I think Revolut should pay £250 for how it handled Ms Ms initial chargeback request. 
I think it was impractical to suggest she log over 300 individual claims given that she was in 
a very vulnerable state. And declining Ms Ms chargeback claims initially on the basis that 
she authorised the payments wasnt the correct advice. As the chargeback experts, I think it 
could have assessed quite quickly whether Ms M had any grounds in raising chargeback 
claims that would have indicated whether individual chargeback requests were necessary. I 
think it could have asked for specific evidence  including whether Ms M had any available 
balances in her casino account that she was unable to withdraw. As withdrawals werent Ms 
Ms concern, I dont think shed have been able to produce this evidence. And as such, I 
think Revolut could have reasonably explained that it had no reasonable prospect of success 
in processing chargeback claims. I think this clearly had an impact on Ms Ms mental health 
which I think was avoidable under the circumstances. Though, I have factored in that most of 
Ms Ms distress would have been caused by the cruel scammers.
I recognise Ms M feels Revolut could have processed chargeback claims under reason 
code 12.7 on the basis that the casino wasnt coded correctly, and it could have done this 
had it intervened sooner. I dont think this was an option for Ms M. Even if the casino had 
been correctly coded, Revolut doesnt block gambling transactions altogether, so its likely it 
would have processed these in any event  as such  this chargeback option wouldnt have 
been available for Ms M. The only other applicable chargeback code surrounds difficulties 
with withdrawals which required very specific evidence and as Ive explained, I dont think 
Ms M had this evidence. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Revolut replied to my provisional decision, it didnt agree. It said in summary:
This case differs significantly from more common scams such as investment fraud. 
Gambling payments, by their nature, do carry an inherent promise of recouping 
invested funds. 
Even in a scenario where the payments were made to a legitimate gambling site, the 
prospect of recovering funds through winnings or withdrawals is not guaranteed and 
this fundamental distinction has not been adequately addressed in our investigation. 
Ms M acknowledges having willingly participated in gambling activities, and in the 
event of a legitimate website, she would have still lost the funds. This is crucial. 
Its neither fair nor reasonable to regard Revoluts services as a form of insurance for 
gambling decisions made by customers. Its responsibility does not extend to acting 
as an insurance policy against outcomes resulting from personal choices. 
Its not Revoluts responsibility to tell an account holder what they can and cant 
spend money on, or to monitor transactions and make unsolicited recommendations 
about how money is being spent. 
Ms M responded to my provisional decision. In summary she said:By the time Revolut asked for her source of funds, shed already sent a substantial 
sum of money. It should have intervened sooner based on the unusual spend to 
multiple new payees.
Revolut are a multi-million-pound enterprise and the expert, and she is a lay person, 
she doesnt think 50% is a fair split. 
The Mental Capacity Act 2005 provides detailed information in relation to individuals 
who lack the ability to make informed decisions due to an impairment of the brain. Ms 
M feels she lacked capacity in accordance with the act. As the scam went on, her 
mental state became increasingly worse. No gambling activity was present prior to 
the scam and no other gambling firms were being used until later in May of the same 
year. It is reasonable to conclude that Ms Ms addiction was of a direct result of the 
scam. 
The FCA expects firms it regulates to understand the scale and characteristics of 
vulnerability that exist in their target market and customer base. And understand the 
impact of vulnerability on the needs of consumers in their target market and customer 
base, by asking themselves what types of harm or disadvantage their customers may 
be vulnerable to, and how this might affect the consumer experience and outcomes. 
Gambling-related vulnerability can affect peoples engagement with financial 
services, adversely impact decision-making and lead to poor outcomes. 
She feels the negligence referred to has already been accounted for in the losses to 
the scam from February to May, which in the decision amounts to £78,070.24. She 
thinks Revolut could have reasonably identified the scam. But a loss of £248,019.22 
as a result of Revolut not stepping in is a devastating amount. This could have been 
prevented much earlier resulting in no further losses but for the failure of Revolut. 
The impact of this has been so significant that shell continue to suffer for it in years 
to come due to the impact this has had on her finances and personal circumstances. 
She found it deeply upsetting that Revolut said she wasnt out of work for long. 
Revolut have no idea what has happened to her career and her ability to work. She 
feels it was trying to damn her character. The role she was appointed in was a 
temporary one with much less seniority. She was put on garden leave not long after 
starting. Shes been fortunate to build some good contacts in her career who have 
supported her in trying to get back into work. But shes spent most of her time sick 
and obsessing over this case. 
She was in an abusive relationship for a very long time. This was debilitating for her 
and she would have been grateful for any assistance Revolut could offer. 
She appreciates that I said this could have been stopped as its given her some 
peace. But shed like me to review the information shes provided in respect of the 
loss she should bear having already lost so much. 
Ms M also provided a link to a journal article discussing gambling disorders, financial loss  
specifically pointing to the articles consideration on contributory negligence. Ms M also 
provided a House of Commons briefing paper from May 2021 titled Consumer Protections: 
online scams. It discusses vulnerable consumers not being expected to exercise the 
customer standard of caution. 
Neither party has commented on my award for trouble and upset based on Ms Ms 
experience in raising her chargeback claims with Revolut. I therefore wont make any further 
finding on this point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why Im satisfied the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision) are still fair. 
Whilst I may not comment on every piece of evidence submitted, I ensure both sides, Ive 
reviewed all submissions and evidence provided before making my decision. 
In my provisional findings I concluded - based on the credible evidence Ive seen - that the 
casino Ms M was dealing with was a scam, not a legitimate gambling website. My 
conclusions focus on whether I think Revolut could have prevented Ms M losing money to a 
scam, rather than whether it could have prevented her from losing money to a legitimate 
gambling website. So although I appreciate its comments around legitimate gambling 
institutions and prospects of winning/recovery, my findings focus on Ms Ms dealings with a 
scam.  
Although Ms M explains that the casino created her gambling problem, I dont agree. Ms M 
explained that she used to have a gambling addiction and her personal circumstances led 
her to gamble again. I dont think the casino created Ms Ms gambling addiction, but I do 
think the operation of the scam made it almost impossible for her to stop. I think it would 
have taken an intervening act and I think that reasonably should have been Revolut  but 
not straight away. 
I still think Revolut should have intervened quite early on  specifically on 11 February 2022 
 when Ms M made five payments totalling £18,000. So, I agree with Ms Ms comments that 
Revolut should have intervened sooner than it did. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I dont think an intervention from Revolut (at this stage) would have likely made a 
difference to her decision to continue dealing with the casino. Had it questioned the 
payments (as I think it should reasonably have), Ms M wouldnt yet have had issues with the 
casinos persistent contact. Ive seen there were negative reviews about the casino online 
but these reviews were around difficulties with withdrawals (not a problem Ms M had 
experienced). So there doesnt appear to have been much in the public domain to suggest 
the casino was operating fraudulently. 
At the point of 11 February 2022, Ms M was sending her payments to one payee and even if 
they werent coded as a gambling merchant, I dont think Revolut would reasonably have 
suspected that Ms M was paying a scam merchant. In my experience, scams involving 
fraudulent casinos arent a common type of scam that firms should be all that familiar with, a 
point Revolut has made in its response to my provisional decision. 
Although Revolut says it doesnt have any responsibility to monitor accounts, I dont think 
thats a reasonable statement to make in this case because it did intervene on more than 
one occasion here. And this was based on its transaction monitoring. Because of Ms Ms 
account activity, it questioned the source of her funds and how she was spending her money 
in March 2022. I maintain my view that the checks it completed were proportionate to the 
risks it identified at the time. I dont think it was required to do anything differently at this 
stage based on Ms Ms account activity. But from its questioning of Ms M and later 
interventions, it learned that shed been made redundant and was paying an online casino. 
I appreciate the merchants changed in the coming months and the number of merchants Ms 
M paid was an increasing picture but the pattern of activity was broadly the same. By 4 May 
2022, I think Revolut should have reasonably suspected very unusual account activity on Ms 
Ms account. She made 21 payments (of broadly similar amounts) to 21 new payees totalling 
£23,255.72. I think it would have been reasonable for Revolut to have intervened as I think 
the pattern of the transactions were very unusual considering her activity up until that point. These were the most new payees shed paid in a single day and also the largest sum shed 
paid in a single day. 
And even though Ive recognised that gambling scams arent all that common, I think Revolut 
would have likely uncovered the scam for the reasons Ive already explained. If Revolut had 
queried what Ms M was doing, shed have likely explained she was using an online casino. I 
think at this stage, given the number of new overseas payees involved and that none appear 
to be in the business of providing gambling services (as required by the card schemes), I 
think Revolut would have reasonably been concerned.  
In my judgement, Revoluts intervention would have likely made a difference here because 
of the information that Revolut was already in receipt of along with the information it could 
have reasonably gathered about the casino. At this point there were multiple reviews about 
the casino that indicated they were scammers and I think Revolut could have reasonably 
explained this to Ms M. I think the scam could have been prevented at this stage. But for 
Revoluts failure to intervene, I dont think Ms M would have lost anymore money. 
I do recognise Ms Ms points about the circumstances she was in, along with the information 
shes pointed me to. And even though I highlighted that Revolut should have suspected that 
Ms M was vulnerable based on what she was doing and what it knew about her (based on 
previous conversations). I dont think Revolut would have had any basis to determine she 
lacked capacity. Ive not seen any evidence that Ms M was incapable of making her own 
financial decisions  even high risk ones. Ms M didnt tell Revolut about her gambling 
problem in advance, so I dont think Revolut was given the opportunity to protect her sooner, 
for example by offering the services of gambling blocks (which is something it offered once 
Ms M informed it about what had happened). And even though Ms M was dealing with a lot 
of trauma, she understood what she was doing and that she was losing significant money 
gambling. 
By no means do I think Ms M was to blame for falling victim to a scam or for having a 
gambling addiction but Im required to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I think Revolut could have reasonably prevented a large proportion of Ms Ms losses. I think 
it could have reasonably suspected that Ms M was vulnerable based on what it knew and 
what it could have reasonably found out. To be clear, I dont think Revolut could have said 
with absolute certainty that Ms M was being scammed but I think it could have provided 
meaningful warnings based on the information that wouldve been reasonably accessible to 
it as a financial professional. And even though I dont think this is a very common scam, I 
think Revolut ought to have had enough awareness (as a regulated firm) that the UKs 
Gambling Commission licenses, regulates and advises individuals and businesses that offer 
gambling services in the UK. I think it would have been reasonable for Revolut to have sign-
posted Ms M to the Gambling Commission based on what she would have likely disclosed 
about her difficulties with the casinos behaviour. Ms M had been honest with Revolut during 
her interactions with it, I dont doubt she would have been had it asked some further 
questions about what she was doing and who she was dealing with. Again, I dont think 
Revolut needed to explain the operation of this type of scam to Ms M, I just think it needed to 
identify that Ms M was at risk of financial harm and supported her accordingly. In my 
judgement, there were enough indicators that Revolut should have identified that Ms M could 
be at risk of financial harm from fraud.
I dont think taking steps to prevent fraud and scams is the equivalent of Revolut acting as 
an insurance policy for legitimate spending gone wrong. Thats not what happened here. 
Ms M was scammed and even though I think shed have likely gambled some (not all) of this 
money, I think the driving factor of her losing the substantial sums to this casino was that they were operating a scam and they knew how to prey on their targeted victims. In my 
judgement, the scam was the primary cause of Ms M deciding to send such significant sums, 
her addiction was a contributing factor. Ms M did gamble some smaller sums of money but 
she says she self-excluded from the legitimate gambling sites which is consistent with her 
statements. The scam casino didnt allow her to self-exclude and it propelled what became 
compulsive gambling spend. 
I have no doubt the concerns I think Revolut should reasonably have expressed to Ms M 
coupled with the involvement of the Gambling Commission (that Revolut should reasonably 
have sign-posted Ms M to), would have helped Ms M realise that she was being scammed 
sooner than she eventually did. Im satisfied of this because Ive seen that Ms M did get in 
touch with the Gambling Commission who helped her realise shed been scammed. I 
therefore think, Revolut could have prevented Ms M losing money to the scam casino from a 
particular point (4 May 2022). 
But I also think it is fair and reasonable for Ms M to share some responsibility for that loss. I 
think 50% is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. Revolut Ltd should refund Ms 
M all of her stolen payments from the 15th payment on 4 May 2022  but subject to a 50% 
deduction for Ms Ms shared responsibility. 
This leaves a total loss balance of £339,897.96, so 50% of that would amount to an award of 
£169,948.98. 
Revolut Ltd should add 8% simple interest, per year, on the above amount, from the dates of 
the respective payments, to the date of settlement. If Revolut Ltd is required to deduct tax 
from the interest it should send Ms M a tax deduction certificate so she can claim it back 
from HMRC if appropriate.
Revolut Ltd should also pay Ms M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman