DRN-4012780
The complaint
Miss O has complained about Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited trading as Go 
Skippy. She isnt happy that it cancelled her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss O took out insurance through Go Skippy for her car and she made a claim after it was 
stolen which was dealt with by her insurer. Before the claim was finalised she asked her 
broker to place another car on cover and when Go Skippy added the new car there was an 
increase in premium. It told Miss O she needed to pay the increase within seven days, or her 
policy would be cancelled. And when the premium wasnt paid it cancelled the policy.
However, Miss O thought the premium would be paid from the total loss payment that was 
owed from the theft claim she had made under her policy. And so, Miss O holds Go Skippy 
responsible for the cancellation of her policy and her new car subsequently being impounded 
by the police as it wasnt insured. 
When Miss O complained to Go Skippy about this it said it had acted fairly in looking for Miss 
O to pay the increased premium and looking to cancel the policy when this didnt happen. 
So, Miss O complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss O but didnt uphold her complaint. He thought the 
increased premium was clearly due given the change in vehicle and that Go Skippy wrote 
out to Miss O making it clear the policy would cancel if she didnt make payment within 
seven days. He highlighted that Miss Os claim hadnt been finalised with her insurance 
company before the payment was due, so the policy was cancelled before any payment was 
due and any delay was a matter for the insurer. And Go Skippy went on to ensure any 
cancellation marker was removed and allowed Miss O to take out a new policy if she wished 
so the investigator didnt think he could hold Go Skippy responsible for her car being 
impounded after the policy was cancelled. 
As Miss O didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have some sympathy for the position Miss O has found herself in, but I 
dont think Go Skippy has done anything wrong here. Ill explain why. 
I can understand why Miss O wouldve liked her insurer to simply transfer some of the 
money she was owed from her stolen car claim over to pay for the additional premium for 
her new car. However, the claim wasnt settled until a few days after her policy was due to 
cancel because of non-payment and Ive seen letters from Go Skippy that made this clear to 
Miss O. So, as it wasnt obliged to do this, and the claim wasnt settled in time anyway I dont 
think Go Skippy did anything wrong here. 
From the information Ive been provided it is clear Miss O was struggling to pay the premium 
on her policy on and off over a period of time. And after her car was written off she looked to 
place a new car on cover which meant an increase in premium. Although Miss O wouldve 
liked to use part of her total loss payment to pay the increase in premium I dont think Go 
Skippy was obliged to do this. Indeed, as Ive already outlined the payment of the market 
value of her old car wasnt due until the policy was cancelled. And Go Skippy made it clear 
to her that her policy would be cancelled if she didnt make payment within seven days. So, I 
dont think Go Skippy acted unfairly when it cancelled the policy due to non-payment. And it 
made Miss O aware the policy had been cancelled and that she was no longer insured. 
I also note that Miss O tried to place a further car on cover which wasnt acceptable to the 
underwriter after her policy had been cancelled. This was after she had been paid out her 
cash settlement after her theft claim so I think she could have used this money to make sure 
she was insured for her new car elsewhere if that was what she wanted. As such I cant hold 
Go Skippy responsible for her car being impounded. 
So, although I understand why Miss O wanted her cash settlement from the total loss of her 
car to be used to pay the additional premium due I dont think Go Skippy was obliged to do 
this. And I think it was clear that Miss Os policy was going to be cancelled if she didnt pay 
the increase in premium. Plus, it was clear she would have to take out new insurance, 
possibly elsewhere, after her policy was cancelled if she wanted to remain insured and I 
cant hold Go Skippy responsible for this. It is also clear that Go Skippy tried to work with 
Miss O after the cancellation of her policy to get her cover, including making sure there 
wasnt a cancellation marker against her name, but Miss O stopped communicating with it.
Finally, I understand Miss O has made a complaint separately to her insurer about the delay 
in settling her theft claim. As this isnt under consideration here, as this complaint is against 
her broker not her insurer, I wont comment on this here. But it is possible that this impacted 
on her ability to keep this policy alive. However, I will leave Miss O to advance this 
separately if she hasnt already. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman