DRN-2000254
The complaint
Ms H feels that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading is Likely Loans has treated her unfairly 
and irresponsibly in lending her a loan.
What happened
Ms H says that Oakbrook has treated her unfairly because it didnt do enough to consider 
her financial situation and spending habits when it gave her a loan in 2017. She feels it 
should have removed any defaults and adverse credit reporting. So she complained to 
Oakbrook.
It says that its treated her fairly. It has described its processes for considering affordability 
and the information Ms H gave it at the time along with its other research. All in all it feels it 
hasnt done anything wrong. Ms H doesnt agree so she complained here.
The investigator felt that Oakbrook hadnt done anything wrong. Ms H remains unhappy, so 
this complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H entered into a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Oakbrook in November 2017 after she 
submitted an electronic application to it. She borrowed £2000 to be repaid over two years. 
Ms H points to her earnings at the time and describes she could not afford her basic 
expenses at the time never mind taking further borrowing. She says the loan was never 
affordable in her circumstances at the time she took it.
Oakbrook has pointed to the information Ms H provided when she applied including the 
income she said she had at that time. Oakbrook is required to conduct proportionate checks 
into affordability. It has pointed to Ms Hs payments towards utilities and other credit on her 
credit file at the time of agreeing the loan. It has shown how she said the loan was for 
consolidation and shown if shed used that money to settle debts then shed have had lower 
monthly outgoings due to taking the loan. It has shown its calculations and shown the loan 
repayments were affordable even if she didnt pay off other debts and shown if shed 
consolidated it would have been even more affordable. It has also pointed to the fact that Ms 
H paid the monthly payments without issue between December 2017 and August 2018. It 
has also noted that during this period Ms H settled other debts as well. Considering this it 
seems clear to me that there wasnt any issues with affordability for some time after taking 
the loan. Ive considered the credit she held at the time and the income she said she had on 
the application. And as Oakbrook has said, it is entitled to rely on what Ms H told it.
Oakbrook then points to September 2018 when Ms H didnt make a payment. It spoke to Ms 
H at that time and she explained shed lost her job and had a head injury. It explains that it 
reduced Ms Hs monthly payments significantly at that time. This reduced amount was paid 
without fail until March 2019 when Oakbrook was informed that Ms H had cancelled her 
payment method.
Im not persuaded Oakbrook has done anything wrong here. It is required to make 
proportional checks. It noted that Ms H had previously had bad credit. But it also noted at the 
time of lending Ms H was up to date with all her payments to other creditors and could afford 
to repay the monthly amount. After the loan was taken Ms H met the repayments without 
issue and it seems to me that the significant change in her circumstances were the reason 
she had difficulty paying the loan repayments rather than a failing on Oakbrooks part when 
the loan was agreed.
Ms H points to other loans and suggests she was using these to pay other debts and was in 
a debt spiral at the time. But Im not persuaded Oakbrook did anything wrong. There were 
credit issues some time before taking this loan. But there was evidence of loans being paid 
off and consistent payments being made and no arrears elsewhere. And Oakbrook has to do 
checks proportionately and as this wasnt a secured loan, or for a very high amount or for a 
particularly long periods I think its checks were proportional. Although historically Ms H 
hasnt had the best of credit histories I am satisfied that at the time of taking the loan 
Oakbrooks proportionate checks had showed the loan was affordable and that lending to 
enable Ms H to consolidate was fair.
So I think any adverse credit reporting can remain as long as it is accurate and fairly reports 
what happened. I dont think Oakbrook should make any refund.
I think on balance the evidence shows Oakbrook has treated her fairly. So in short this 
complaint does not succeed. I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Ms H. But I can 
see it did proportionate checks when it agreed the loan and it varied the repayment amount 
to help her when she lost her job. I dont think it has to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against the Oakbrook Finance 
Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman