DRN-1540775
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage that O, a limited company whose directors are 
Mr S and Mr N, applied for with Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation Home Loans. O 
complains about delays in the application which led to the mortgage completing a day late.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The eligible complainants here arent Mr S and Mr N personally; its the limited company O, 
on behalf of which Mr S and Mr N bring the complaint as its directors. As O is a separate 
legal entity from Mr S and Mr N, we cant compensate Mr S and Mr N personally for things 
that happened to O. A limited company cant experience distress or suffer from trauma, and 
the consideration of whether any inconvenience was caused would be in respect of any 
inconvenience to the company O, rather than Mr S and Mr N personally.
Where a mortgage application is made through a third-party intermediary, such as a 
mortgage broker, theres no obligation on the part of the lender to replicate the role of the 
broker. Paratus told the broker what information it needed  and in what form  on 28 March 
and despite regular chase-ups and reminders it didnt receive everything it had asked for 
until 15 May. Once the information was in Paratus issued the mortgage offer the same day.
The solicitor provided the CML form to Paratus on 21 May, and Paratus forwarded that onto 
the surveyor on 23 May. Paratus doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs 
the services of a surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified and 
competent surveyor  a requirement that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of 
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. Paratus isnt accountable to O for any potential 
issues in the way the surveyor carried out their role, including the time taken for the 
response to be provided.
We cant consider complaints about the surveyor, who is independent and not a member of 
Paratus staff, as its simply not in our jurisdiction to do so. So, while I can appreciate that the 
time it took for the response to be received may have been frustrating for O, I cant hold 
Paratus liable for that. Paratus has said it could have been more proactive on the day 
completion was set for in phoning the surveyor and the broker and Im satisfied the £150 
already offered is more than reasonable for that as the actual response was out of Paratus 
hands.
Mr S and Mr N say this matter has caused considerable distress, and trauma to them and 
that Paratus didnt treat them with due care and respect. Whilst I have a great deal of 
sympathy, I cant consider any of that here as the only party thats eligible to complain is O  
the limited company. I simply dont have the power to consider how things have affected the 
director(s) of a limited company when looking at a complaint brought by the limited company.
Finally Mr S and Mr N have said that its not about the money, but it is to make Paratus 
stand up to the mistake it made, and to take it to the highest possible level. Were not the 
regulator and its not within my remit fine or punish a business. And in any event Im satisfied 
Paratus didnt make any mistakes here and it wasnt responsible for the delays in this 
application.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman