DRN-2869521
The complaint
Mr D complains that when he made a lump sum repayment to his credit card account with 
Santander UK Plc, they used it to repay his interest free borrowing rather than those 
balances that were incurring interest charges.
What happened
Mr D was successfully accepted for a credit card account with Santander in August 2020. 
The account provided the ability to make fee free balance transfers during the introductory 
period. These would remain interest free for a period of up to 18 months. He also benefitted 
from interest free purchases on the account for the first three months.
Mr D arranged for monthly payments of £50 to be made by direct debit and also made 
additional payments where he was able. 
Mr D completed two balance transfers in August 2020. He also made some purchases using 
the card during the first 3 months. All of these transactions benefitted from the interest free 
offer. Any new purchases made after 20 November 2020 were not subject to the interest free 
offer.
Mr D understood that Santanders policy was to apply any payments received to those 
balances attracting the highest interest rate first. During November and December, he 
continued to use his card to make various purchases. He knew that because of the expiry of 
the interest free offer on purchases, these would potentially incur interest. So, he made a 
separate payment to his card account of £986.75 on 11 December 2020 to repay these. This 
was in addition to the £50 paid by direct debit. 
When Mr D received his statement dated 14 December 2020, it showed estimated interest of 
£13.48. He couldnt understand this. He thought that his balances were all interest free. Hed 
paid an amount which he intended to repay his November and December transactions that 
would attract an interest charge. Mr D believed that these would be repaid ahead of any 
interest free balance owed, in line with Santanders policy.
Mr D contacted Santander for an explanation. Santander said that his payment of £986.75 
had been used to repay part of the interest free balance that he owed. Mr D thought that 
Santander had made a mistake, so he complained to them. He wanted them to reinstate the 
interest free offer in respect of those balances that previously qualified.
Santander told Mr D they hadnt done anything wrong. They said that his purchase interest 
rate of 0% expired on 20 November 2020. They said that his statement, billed on 18 
November and due for payment on 14 December, was still active. So, the amount he paid 
was used against this statement balance. They said that at the time of his payment the 
statement balances were all within their 0% interest period. There were no balances on that 
statement subject to interest. But because of the misunderstanding, Santander paid Mr D 
£50 towards any interest costs in January, February and March 2021.
Mr D wasnt happy with Santanders response, so he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. He didnt think that Santander 
had done anything wrong. So, Mr D asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As background, I should explain that that since 2010, there has been an agreement that 
Credit Card companies will apply payments to the balance attracting the highest interest rate 
first. This is now an obligation which is set out in the FCA handbook. It says that A firm   
must first allocate a repayment to the debt subject to the highest rate of interest (and then to 
the next highest rate of interest and so on) forthe outstanding balance on a credit card.
Santander have told us that a customer cannot make payments towards purchases until the 
purchases have been billed. On this basis the payment he made went towards the 
outstanding balance, which was the balance transfer amount. They said that this was 
explained on the customers statement and also within the credit agreement. Please also 
refer to section 7 allocation of payments on thekey facts document.
Ive looked at Mr Ds credit card statement. It says If you dont pay off the full amount 
outstanding, we will allocate your payment to the outstanding balance in a specific order, 
which is shown overleaf. Overleaf there is a summary box. Next to Allocation of payments 
it says If you do not pay off your balance in full, payments we receive are applied to the 
highest interest bearing transactions first. For further details, please refer to your terms and 
conditions.
I then looked at Santanders Credit Cards terms and conditions. Section 17 specifically 
relates to payments and interest. Section 19 relates to statements. There is no reference at 
all to how payments received are allocated. So, I can understand why things might have 
been unclear to Mr D.
Finally, I looked at Santanders Credit Card Key Facts Document. Section 2 of the Pre-
Contract Credit Information says:
If you do not pay the account balance in full in any month, we will apply your payment to the
statemented transactions as follows:
1) It will be allocated to the different amounts of your outstanding statemented balance that 
are charged at higher interest rates before those that are charged at lower interest rates.
2) If interest is charged at the same rate on different amounts, we will apply your payment to
the different amounts in the following order: cash transactions, payment protection insurance
premiums, purchases, balance transfers, other special transactions (i.e. transactions on
promotional terms and/or rates), other transactions, followed by other fees. If you have more
than one special transaction at the same rate, your payment will be applied first to the 
special transaction that has the earliest promotional period end date.
Where an account fee is charged as a result of a transaction or special transaction, it will be
included as part of that transaction type and applied as set out in 2) above.
We will apply any remaining payment to transactions not yet shown on your statement in the
same order as set out above.
Section 7.1 of the Credit Agreement, says:
If you do not pay the Account balance in full in any month, we will apply your payment to the 
statemented Transactions as follows:1) It will be allocated to the different amounts of your outstanding statemented balance that 
are charged at higher interest rates before those that are charged at lower interest 
rates.
I think that this document is clear with its explanation. Simply put, it means that any 
transactions that havent yet been billed on a monthly statement are looked at last when it 
comes to allocating any payment made to the account  regardless of the interest charge 
they may attract. 
When Mr D made his payment of £986.75 on 11 December 2020, the last statement issued 
by Santander was dated 18 November 2020. So, Santander applied his payment to that 
statement balance. The purchases that Mr D had made after 18 November 2020 hadnt been 
billed to him on a statement yet. The reference to payment allocations on the statement are 
specific to that statement. This appears to support Santanders explanation to us.
I can appreciate why Mr D thought that his payment wouldve been allocated towards the 
newer transactions. But this services role is not a regulatory one. So, Im unable to comment 
specifically upon Santanders policies, terms or conditions. I can only consider whether 
Santander have been fair and reasonable in the way that theyve applied them to Mr Ds 
circumstances. Although I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed, I cant reasonably 
conclude that Santander have acted unfairly here. Theyve allocated payments in a way that 
conforms with the explanations in their Key Facts Document. 
Im pleased that Santander have recognised Mr Ds misunderstanding by making a goodwill 
payment of £50. This is approximately three months interest, based upon his balance at the 
time. I think that this was fair and at least allowed Mr D to explore alternative options, should 
he have wanted. But I will not be asking Santander to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman