DRN-3985704
The complaint
Mr A complains that RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) mishandled his claim on a breakdown 
insurance policy. 
What happened
On 4 October 2022, Mr A paid about £50.00 for RAC European breakdown insurance to 
cover a trip between 6 and 9 October 2022. 
He drove is pregnant wife in his car to a hotel in a European capital city.  
On the Saturday morning 8 October 2022, Mr A rang RAC to report that his car had a 
problem at the hotel. Mr A was due to check out of the hotel at 10:00 on Sunday 9 October 
2022 and had return tickets booked for a ferry at lunchtime. He had work commitments on 
the Monday. 
After many telephone calls, RAC arranged for the car to be towed to a depot. Mr A extended 
his stay until that evening. He left the car behind. RAC arranged and paid for tickets for Mr A 
and his wife to fly home that evening. Mr A paid for a taxi home from the airport.
On about14 October 2022, a local garage said it had found no fault with the car. So RAC 
said it was up to Mr A to get the car home.
Mr A complained that RAC shouldve arranged transport for the car.
By a final response dated mid-November 2022, RAC turned down the complaint. Mr A 
brought his complaint to us without delay.
On about 1 December 2022, RAC reimbursed Mr A €67.50 for the hotel and £96.37 for the 
taxi.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator  
thought that RAC declined repatriation in line with the terms of the policy and not unfairly. 
The investigator was satisfied that the compensation paid for hotel costs, flights and taxi was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The policy said RAC would repatriate the car if it couldnt be fixed before his planned 
return date.
The car was emitting smoke and water.
He asked for the car to be taken to a garage. RACs agents incorrectly said no 
garages were open and they couldnt diagnose or fix the car until Monday.
The car wasn't safe to drive.
So RACs agents towed the car to a depot. 
They couldve rectified the car if they tried to take it to the nearest garage. 
On 15 October 2022, they took the car to their appointed garage who fixed it.
They said they would repatriate the car, then said they wouldnt.
RACs agents say he has to pay storage charge up to £3,500.00 since 10 October 
2022 before he can collect the car. 
In mid-February 2023, he spoke with RACs agent. She said the appointed garage 
fixed his car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules means that, before we can investigate a complaint, the 
consumer must first have made that complaint to the regulated firm and waited for up to 
eight weeks for a final response.
Ive looked carefully at the RAC policy terms and the summary of them in the Insurance 
Product Information Document.
The policy only offered cover in the event of a breakdown, that is an event that stopped the 
car being driven. So, the policy only offered cover to get the vehicle home if it had broken 
down. And there was no cover to get the vehicle home if it was roadworthy.
I understand that  having rung on the Saturday morning  Mr A expected an urgent 
diagnosis of the car. 
I accept Mr As evidence that there were garages open on a Saturday afternoon.
I also accept his evidence that RACs agent towed his car from the hotel.
However, the evidence from the garage report in mid-October 2022 is that there was nothing 
wrong with the car. So I dont find that it had broken down. I find that it was roadworthy.
Ive seen an email dated mid-November 2022 in which RACs agent said it would repatriate 
the car. But the sender withdrew the email within an hour or so.
I accept that in mid-February 2023, one of RACs agents call handlers told Mr A that the 
garage had fixed the car. However, the agent was trying to get Mr A to collect the car. I dont 
consider that what she said could change the fact that the garage had found nothing wrong 
with the car. 
I dont consider that the garage wouldve reported in October 2022 that there was nothing 
wrong with the car if there was a fault - or if it had spent time on fixing a fault.
As I havent found that there had been a breakdown, I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct RAC to get Mr As car home to him  or to do any more in response to this complaint.
After Mr A made his complaint to RAC, he has faced further issues about storage charges 
and, more recently, a notice of intention to dispose of the car. As those issues post-date the complaint to which RAC gave its final response, I cant comment on them in this final 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct RAC Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman