DRN-4220683
The complaint
Mr R complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) defaulted his credit card 
account without prior notice.  
What happened
Mr R says Halifax defaulted his credit card without any prior notification. Mr R says he was 
experiencing financial problems due to the Covid lockdown and despite him making attempts 
to speak with Halifax about this in late 2019 and early 2020 he wasnt being taken seriously 
and it never provided him with any information about his indebtedness only that the debt 
collection team would be in touch. Mr R says he then received a call from a debt 
management agent who he didnt recognise, and he was unaware his Halifax debt had been 
sold. Mr R says despite what Halifax have said he never received any letters from them 
about his debt or the fact his credit card account had been defaulted. 
Mr R says Halifax could have communicated something as important as a default by other 
means especially given this was during Covid and he doesnt believe any demand/default 
letters were ever sent by Halifax and it should provide evidence to show that it has. 
Mr R wants Halifax to remove the default from his credit file and to refund the overpayment 
he made to his credit card account in July 2020 when he sent £900 to clear what he owed. 
Halifax says Mr R had been experiencing financial difficulties in 2019 and a temporary 
arrangement was put in place in July 2019 for the months from August to October 2019. 
Halifax says since October 2019 to June 2020 no payments were received from Mr R. 
Halifax says it wrote letters to Mr R in May 2020 and June 2020 regarding the default on his 
credit card account. Halifax says while Mr R paid £900 into his account in July 2020 this was 
after the credit card account had been defaulted and by this time the decision had been 
made to sell the debt to a debt management agent and the monies had been sent to them in 
August 2020. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Halifax acted reasonably when it defaulted Mr Rs credit card account, as he 
had failed to make his contractual monthly payments and the investigator says she had seen 
the letters Halifax sent advising Mr R of the consequences of this.
The investigator says although Mr R had made a payment of £900 into his credit card 
account in July 2020, this was after the account had been defaulted. The investigator 
pointed out the decision by Halifax to sell the debt to a debt management agent was made 
prior to the account defaulting and Halifax were entitled to make that business decision and 
the payment had been sent directly to those agents. The investigator felt Halifax had acted 
reasonably here. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr R to discover his credit card account with 
Halifax had been defaulted and registered with the credit reference agencies, especially as 
he says he had been given no prior warning of this. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax acted reasonably when it defaulted 
Mr Rs credit card account when it did, in June 2020.
Both parties have provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events 
here and while that has proved helpful I wont be commenting on every point made as I dont 
feel its necessary in order to come to a full an impartial decision here. Thats not to say I 
havent considered everything  I have. 
Mr Rs complaint centres around the fact he never received any communication from Halifax 
regarding its intent to default his credit card account and sell the debt to a debt management 
agent. Mr R maintains he was expecting contact from Halifaxs collections department, but 
he never heard from them and feels it should provide clear evidence he was written to, given 
the significance and impact of the default on his credit file. 
Its fair to say that Mr R had been experiencing financial problems prior to the Covid 
lockdown as he had been put into a temporary arrangement back in August 2019, so I cant 
say that Covid was the only reason why he was struggling to make his monthly payments to 
his credit card account. From the information provided to this service I can see Mr R didnt 
manage to keep to the temporary three- month arrangement agreed back in July 2019 and in 
fact no payments were made by him from October 2019 until he made the payment of £900 
in July 2020, having been provided with a government bounce back loan (BBL). 
With that in mind its reasonable to say Halifax had provided reasonable forbearance over 
this period of time so it wasnt unreasonable of them to have issued the arrears and default 
notices when it did in May 2020 and June 2020, in fact Halifax would have been entitled to 
do that sooner than it did. 
The key issue here is that Mr R maintains he never received any letters from Halifax and 
was waiting to hear from them having spoken to them in February 2020. I have seen copies 
of those letters sent to Mr R and these are addressed correctly and make clear he needed to 
make contact to discuss the matter and what the consequences could be if he didnt  
including selling the debt, to debt management agents and registering a default with the 
credit reference agencies. So, while Mr R may not agree, Halifax have carried out its 
process here and I cant hold it responsible for the fact Mr R says he never received such 
communications. Its worth saying communication regarding defaults would be expected to 
be sent by formal letter rather than email by lenders in these circumstances and in fact in 
line with Halifaxs own processes and procedures- so its not for me tell it, it must send these 
by any other means or by recorded or registered mail as Mr R refers to.
Mr R says he made contact by telephone but wasnt taken seriously by Halifax. I have 
looked at the historic call recording notes provided by Halifax and theres no records to 
suggest Mr R telephoned its money management team to set up a payment plan in February 
2020, by which time Mr R was already four months in arrears in any event. There was a brief call in February 2020 to a central department where Mr R was given the contact details of 
the money management team, but I cant  see that was ever followed up and Halifax, having 
searched its systems, have no record of any other calls at that time or after. 
It would on balance seem unlikely in all probability that Halifax would not agree to set up a 
payment plan in February 2020, if asked to do so, as it would be in its interest to have a plan 
in place to repay its outstanding debt, especially bearing in mind it had not received any 
payments to the account for four months at that time. 
In any event, its reasonable to say Mr R remains responsible for meeting his minimum 
monthly payments and on balance its difficult to say he wouldnt have been aware of the fact 
if he failed to make any payments he would find himself in default. I say this as Mr R had 
received letters back in 2019 when he first experienced financial problems and these also 
point out his responsibilities and the consequences if he didnt.
As far as the overpayment Mr R says he made to Halifax this has been sent to the debt 
management agents that Halifax sold the debt to, and Mr R should contact them for any 
refund he feels is due - the investigator has access to the debt management business 
contact details and can provide this to Mr R if this can help him recover any overpayment he 
has made. 
While I have some sympathy with Mr Rs position here, I cant say Halifax have made any 
mistakes when it defaulted his credit card account when it did and while Mr R will be 
disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Halifax here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman