DRN-4115532
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that Seedrs Limited failed to provide the 
support it agreed to as part of an investment campaign to raise capital on its crowdfunding 
platform. As a result of problems with the handling of the campaign, W didnt raise the target 
of capital it required and incurred further costs.
What happened
Seedrs is an online crowdfunding platform designed to assist startups and unlisted 
companies who wish to raise capital through issuing shares to investors. Companies, such 
as W, pitch their investment opportunity to investors via marketing campaigns hosted on the 
platform.
In October 2020, W reached an agreement to raise capital by issuing its shares using 
Seedrs platform. It was looking to raise £1 million. Seedrs agreed to provide W with a 
Standard Campaign Support and an Additional Campaign Support for a fee.  
Initially Seedrs indicated it could include funds in the raise from lead investors who had 
agreed to invest prior to Ws campaign going live on the platform. But in November 2020 
before the campaign went live, Seedrs informed W this wouldnt be possible - meaning the 
raise could no longer be advertised as £1 million and instead would be set at £150,000. 
Seedrs apologised for this and offered a contribution of £1,000 towards the advertisement of 
the campaign. W didnt accept the offer. 
W raised concerns with Seedrs as it wasnt happy with how the campaign was being 
handled as it felt omissions and delays by Seedrs were preventing a successful fund raise. 
When the campaign closed in January 2021, the capital raised was significantly less than W 
had expected when it first approached Seedrs. Further W was also expecting to benefit from 
a post campaign Alumni Club that it says it was promised when first discussing use of the 
platform. But Seedrs later told W that the club no longer existed, so this wasnt something it 
could provide.  
W raised a formal complaint, as it believed Seedrs had mis-sold the crowdfunding campaign 
and the services promised were either not received or ineffective. It said this led to an 
unsuccessful campaign which has put W in a difficult financial position. It claimed the fees 
owed to Seedrs should be waived and requested compensation equal to the cost incurred 
for raising capital from an alternative source. 
Seedrs responded to the complaint  and didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
- Seedrs didnt provide any guarantee that the funding expectations for the campaign 
would be met  and success depends on a number of complex factors. 
- In relation to the Alumni Club, although this has been discontinued, Seedrs offered 
W certain benefits to compensate for this. The discontinuation was a decision made 
by Seedrs to ensure that the quality of service provided to portfolio companies 
remains high. 
- The lead investors were unfortunately not able to be reflected in the campaign as 
their investment was not made on the same terms as Seedrs investors. Seedrs didnt 
guarantee the direct offline investment presented would be accepted and W was 
aware the investment was subject to legal review prior to the campaign going live.
- It apolgised for the delays in completing the pre-live legal review but noted Seedrs 
offered a goodwill addition of £1,000 to Ws advertising budget, which wasnt 
accepted. 
- W was in no way forced to conduct the campaign. It did reach its eventual funding 
target and while this was lower than expectations, the relative degree of a 
campaigns success is dependent on multiple factors. The Business Development 
and Investment Team provided support to the best of their abilities in relation to the 
campaigns success.
- All advertising which was subscribed for by W was delivered. In relation to the 
effectiveness of the advertising, at no point did Seedrs guarantee the amount of 
funding the campaign would achieve. So, it does not believe that Seedrs was 
misleading with respect to its offering of advertising services.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
- The decision Seedrs made to not include the external investment in the campaign 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. While the decision to communicate 
this came close to the intended launch of the campaign, some of the delay was 
caused as a result of W not answering the questions on the pre-legal review 
accurately. Seedrs had noted the impact of its handling of the situation and offered a 
goodwill payment to increase the advertising budget.
- She was satisfied that the campaign support agreed to by W and additional support 
was delivered by Seedrs.
- Whilst she appreciated that W was disappointed by the campaign as it did not meet 
its expectations in terms of the funds raised, and because the Alumni Club was not 
available in the form expected after the campaign's completion, she didnt agree that 
the campaign was mis-sold.
W disagreed with the assessment. Our investigator provided it with additional time to provide 
further submissions, but nothing further was received. As no agreement could be reached 
the complaint has been passed to me to reach a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that W is unhappy with the running and outcome of the campaign  especially as it 
didnt raise as much as hoped. I can understand why W is disappointed, but having 
considered everything, I havent found Seedrs actions (or lack of) are responsible for the 
losses W claims. Ill explain why. 
 
Campaigns promoted on Seedrs platform dont guarantee the amount of capital that will be 
raised. So, I accept Seedrs point that multiple factors influence the ultimate success of a 
campaign and it didnt guarantee the level of capital that would be raised. W instructed 
Seedrs to promote a raise of share capital for its business  and a campaign was launched, 
and funds were raised above the revised target. So, in that sense, the campaign was 
successfully delivered. But I can see things didnt run as smoothly as they could have done 
in the initial review phase before the campaign was accepted. Seedrs has acknowledged 
some responsibility for this and made an offer to recognise this. Although this offer wasnt 
accepted, I think it was a reasonable attempt by Seedrs to rectify any delays and issues that 
were encountered.However, I have also seen evidence that W failed to provide accurate information about the 
terms of investment for the external investors during the initial review phase. This was key 
information that is required to ensure prospective investors on the platform understand the 
investment they are making. So, I think W shares some responsibility for the delay in the 
decision to not include the funds of the external investors as part of the campaign. Im also 
conscious Seedrs had regulatory obligations towards prospective platform investors. 
Importantly, it needed to provide clear, fair and not misleading information. Failing to 
disclose essential information about the status of the external investors would have likely led 
to Seedrs breaching its obligations. 
W claims there were services that either didnt take place or were ineffective. W referred to 
advertising when making this point. Seedrs has given evidence of the advertisements it 
provided as part of the service. This is evidence to support that it did deliver the service it 
agreed to. While there is clear disappointment about the success of the campaign and regret 
on Ws part on agreeing to use Seedrs to promote its capital raise, I havent seen that there 
were services included in the agreement that were not provided. So, Ive not been 
persuaded by Ws arguments that it didnt receive the campaign service or that it is 
unreasonable for Seedrs to require the fees that were agreed to be paid. 
I note W has raised a point in relation to an alumni programme it says was promised when it 
first discussed using Seders platform for its raise. This appears to be an additional benefit 
that Seedrs offered to businesses post investment, so not part of the campaign agreement 
as such. Seedrs explain this programme was discontinued but it did offer W replacement 
services to allow it to benefit from post investment support. I understand that the Alumni 
Club was seen as attractive to W when it was deciding whether to use Seedrs platform. But 
the fact this post investments service didnt materialise, doesnt lead me to say the campaign 
was mis-sold. There has been offer of other services and when taking into account the 
overall agreement, I dont think this gives reasons for me to say Seedrs failings induced W 
into an agreement it wouldnt have otherwise.
Overall, I havent found grounds to uphold this complaint. There were issues that meant the 
whole journey wasnt as smooth as expected. But Seedrs did launch a campaign on its 
platform for W and it did achieve a share capital raise that it set out to  albeit not as much 
as W initially wanted. I know W will be disappointed with this outcome, but I dont think 
Seedrs needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman