DRN-3155430
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to dispense money from 
an ATM but then deducted the money from his account and declined to refund it.
What happened
Mr K told us that he used a Halifax cash machine to withdraw £500 and it failed to dispense 
any funds. Mr K then waited for 15-20 minutes at the cash machine and no one else used it 
in that time, so hes sure that the money wasnt taken by anyone else.
Mr Ks representative contacted Halifax and told them about the problem. Halifax temporarily 
credited Mr Ks account with £500 while they investigated the matter. Halifax then got back 
in touch with Mr K and said their investigation hadnt shown any problems with the ATM and 
because it had dispensed the money they took the temporary credit back.
Mr K continued to dispute his loss and asked Halifax to check their CCTV. He was advised 
that he should report the matter to the police, which he did. The police didnt access the 
CCTV and neither did Halifax because they were satisfied with the outcome of their own 
investigation into the loss. 
Mr K brought his complaint to our service and it was looked into by one of our investigators. 
She thought that Halifax had provided sufficient evidence to show that the ATM properly 
dispensed the £500 to Mr K. The records from the ATM showed it had been successfully 
used just before and just after Mr K was at the machine. This was different to Mr Ks version 
of what happened. Mr Ks complaint wasnt upheld, and he asked for it to be looked at again. 
Mr K stressed that the CCTV should have been looked at and that the later use of the 
machine referred to in the investigators outcome was himself inputting his card again after it 
failed to dispense the money.
The complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and Halifax have different versions of what happened at the cash machine. And where 
there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I 
must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider 
is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Mr Ks testimony is that the machine failed to dispense the money he requested, and he 
waited for 15  20 minutes at the machine and no-one else used it in that time. Halifax 
supplied records for the ATM showing that the £500 requested by Mr K was dispensed from 
the machine. Detailed records also show that the machine dispensed money to another 
customer just prior to Mr Ks withdrawal. They also show the machine was successfully used 
to withdraw money almost straight after Mr Ks transaction at the ATM from another account. 
Mr K said no-one else was at the machine and he used his card again in the machine  but 
unfortunately the records dont show that  they show it was used by a different card and 
dispensed cash straight after Mr K withdrew £500.
ATMs by their nature have several systems to ensure they work properly and back-up 
systems in case of problems. If the machine had failed to dispense Mr Ks money, I would 
expect the records of the machine to show that. It would also be apparent when the machine 
was emptied, because the records and the cash left in the machine wouldnt match. There 
would, in effect, be £500 more in the machine than there should be. Ive looked to see If 
there was any cash that was over. But that wasnt the case here and the ATM provider 
confirmed the machine balanced. The machine was confirmed to be working properly and 
had no reported errors. There were also no reports of any foreign devices fitted to the 
machine because the ATM was used by other people before and after Mr K without any 
problems, I dont think the machine was malfunctioning that day and the evidence shows 
that the £500 was dispensed. 
Mr K has made the point that CCTV wasnt checked. Halifax didnt look at this at the time 
because they were satisfied the records from the machine demonstrated the money was 
properly dispensed. As the CCTV is no longer available, Im afraid I cant take it into account. 
But, the records from the ATM show it was used in a different way to that described by Mr K 
and I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of the data.
 
So, taking everything into account, I think its more than likely that the money requested by 
Mr K was dispensed from the machine and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman