DRN-2391879
The complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Ascot Lloyd Financial 
Services Limited (Ascot Lloyd) to transfer his pensions to a new self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP).
Mr R says his situation at the time meant he was vulnerable, and that Ascot Lloyd took 
advantage to push through the transfers.  
What happened
In October 2017 Mr and Mrs R met with an adviser from Ascot Lloyd. Mr R said hed 
previously carried out some electrical work for the adviser, so they knew each other, and he 
says the adviser was aware of the serious accident hed suffered  which he said left him 
feeling vulnerable.  
The report that was issued following the meeting noted that Mr R held two personal pensions 
within managed funds to the value of £29,081.82  and that Mr R wanted to consolidate 
them and benefit from active management based on a low to medium attitude to risk. Mr R 
was advised to transfer the plans into a SIPP using a discretionary fund manager (DFM) and 
investing in a managed cautious portfolio. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs R complained about the advice theyd both received. In Mr Rs case he 
said his pension had fallen in value and he thought the original recommendation had been 
unsuitable. He also complained about a lack of ongoing reviews and meetings he said were 
promised. 
Ascot Lloyd said that Mr R had agreed to the charges that were deducted and had been 
made aware of them. But it did accept that it hadnt provided a financial review in 2018 as 
agreed and offered a refund of the charges it had received for that year.  Mr R remained 
unhappy with the response, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into the matter.
She recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that, while she understood the 
SIPP offered Mr R some benefits, she didnt believe these justified the extra costs that Mr R 
would have to pay compared with his original plans. She said Ascot Lloyd should carry out a 
calculation to see if Mr R had suffered a financial loss when compared against an 
appropriate benchmark. She said it should also cover any fees involved in transferring Mr R 
back to his original pensions if required and should repay the adviser fees it had earned.
Ascot Lloyd didnt agree. It said that while it accepted the SIPP had higher ongoing charges 
there were other reasons for advising the transfer and the expectation was that the SIPP 
would provide Mr R with more opportunity for potential growth. 
It said Mr R had been made aware of the charges as part of the overall recommendation and 
had made an informed choice. It wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it 
was passed to me for a review. 
Mrs Rs complaint has been the subject of a separate matter which has been considered by 
this service.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision of 19 October 2020, I said I thought the complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons as the investigator  but with a change to the proposed 
redress formula.
In summary I made the following points:
Ascot Lloyd had cited flexibility, the ability to benefit from active management, and 
consolidation as reasons for recommending the transfer. Whilst these were 
acceptable reasons for such a recommendation, I didnt think they were justified in 
Mr Rs case.
Mr Rs pension fund was less than £30,000 and he had less than 10 years to his 
normal retirement date. So I thought he was most likely to have considered the 
opportunity to improve the value of his pension fund as the most important reason to 
transfer. There was no evidence that Ascot Lloyds recommendation would achieve 
that objective.
The SIPP was more expensive than his existing personal pensions and there was 
also an initial adviser charge. I thought it was unlikely these costs would be 
outweighed by the advantages of transferring.
There was no evidence that Mr R was provided with an illustration that would have 
given him the information he needed to make an informed choice. It wasnt clear 
Mr R would be better off by transferring.
Mr R had only ever invested in the default managed funds- so it wasnt clear he 
wanted to actively manage his own pension or pay the extra costs involved to do so.
There was no charge for Mr R to switch between funds in his existing pensions, so 
he could have met his attitude to risk objectives without transferring.
Mr R hadnt expressed concerns about the amount of paperwork he was receiving 
about his pensions  which wasnt onerous in any case. So it wasnt clear that he 
would prefer to consolidate his two personal pensions into one new plan. 
Overall I wasnt persuaded that the reasons for transferring were in Mr Rs best 
interests or justified him paying fees and increased charges in which he only had a 
relatively short time to cancel out their effect. 
I said Ascot Lloyd should compare the notional value of Mr Rs previous pensions with the 
current value of the SIPP and, if he had been better off not transferring that loss should be 
paid to him along with a payment of £100 for any disruption caused to his retirement 
planning.
Mr R said he accepted the provisional decision and Ascot Lloyd said it had nothing further to 
add and awaited a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties accepted my provisional findings and provided no further 
submissions, I see no reason to depart from them. So Ive set out below what I think Ascot 
Lloyd should now do to put things right.Putting things right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr R would have remained invested in his existing plans. Theres no persuasive 
evidence to show that Mr R needed to change his investments at all. So, Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested. 
What should Ascot Lloyd do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Ascot Lloyd must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's current SIPP with the notional value of his 
original pension plans. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss 
and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Ascot Lloyd should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Ascot Lloyd should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Ascot Lloyd is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr R £100 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning.
Mr R will incur higher fees from the SIPP, and I dont believe he would have chosen 
such a plan if hed been provided with all the necessary information. 
Therefore Ascot Lloyd should cover all the reasonable costs involved should Mr R 
want to transfer his funds back to the plans he held originally (or similar plans if the 
old provider isnt accepting new business on the same terms  including annual fees, 
management charges etc). Mr R should make Ascot Lloyd aware of his choice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Ascot Lloyd deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Ascot Lloyd should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsMr Rs 
existing 
personal 
pension 
plans.date of 
transferdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Ascot Lloyd totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a 
clear, simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman