DRN-3851027
The complaint
Miss P applied to remortgage through a brokerage, HL Partnership Limited (HL). But no 
mortgage application was ever made for her. She complains that what HL offered wont 
cover the costs shes incurred because of this, or compensate for the impact on her. 
What happened
Miss P has raised two complaints about a broker working for HL. This case deals with the 
complaint about what happened in 2022, when Miss P wanted the broker to make a 
remortgage application for her. 
Mr P, a family member, represents Miss P. He told us Miss P has mental health issues, so 
he brought this complaint to our service, and it appears that Mr P also managed the 
mortgage application for Miss P throughout. 
Mr P told us Miss Ps previous fixed interest rate period on her mortgage ended 
unexpectedly at the end of March. Mr P asked HLs broker to make a mortgage application 
for Miss P, and he understood this had been done in early April. By then, she was paying the 
standard variable rate, which he told us meant an increase to around 4%, from around 1% 
while she was on the fixed interest rate deal. Because Miss Ps monthly payments had 
increased, Mr P lent her a sizeable amount of money, to pay off most of her mortgage until a 
new fixed interest rate deal could be secured. 
The application took some time, and HLs broker then told Mr P the application was turned 
down, and he was ceasing all his mortgage brokerage work. 
When Mr P complained, HL apologised, and said no application had ever been made for 
Miss P. HL was sorry that its former broker had let Miss P down. It said that he had been 
experiencing extremely difficult issues in his personal life at this time, and ought not to have 
been taking on work. 
HL said it wanted to put things back the way theyd have been if the broker had handled 
things properly. It understood Miss P couldnt now get the interest rate she had applied for in 
early April. So it would cover the additional interest that Miss P would pay on what it could 
see she had intended to borrow in April, as against what she would pay on this lending now. 
HL initially said this was £120,000, but then amended its calculations to be based on 
intended lending of £140,000 when Mr P offered some evidence that hed been expecting 
the borrowing to be that sum. It wouldnt cover the interest on £160,000 of borrowing. It said 
what it would pay added up to £7,979.40 over five years.
HL also offered £894 in arrangement fees, and an additional six weeks of the extra interest 
charged while Miss P remained on her old lenders standard variable rate (SVR) at £83. 
And it offered £100 in compensation. So it said it had offered a total of £9,056.40. 
But its worked this out on £140,000 of borrowing, which Mr P says isnt enough. Mr P told us 
that Miss P wanted to borrow £160,000.
Mr P also said his loan to Miss P, to pay off some of her mortgage, was interest bearing. He 
said she should have been able to pay this back at the start of May, from her remortgage, 
but what HLs broker did, delayed that. He wanted HL to cover this interest too. 
Mr P said that HL had only offered £100 in compensation. He said that £1,000 would be 
more appropriate, given the impact all this had on Miss P.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, but only in part. She explained that 
although Mr P spent a considerable time working on this mortgage application for Miss P, 
our service can only consider the impact of what HL had done on its customer, Miss P. 
Our investigator said that theres no dispute Miss P was incorrectly told her re-mortgage 
application had been forwarded to the lender for assessment, so what she had to consider 
was if HL had resolved the complaint fairly and reasonably.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for HL to cover the additional interest that Miss P 
paid between 5 April (when Mr P understood her application to have been submitted) to 23 
May 2022, when a new re-mortgage application was submitted. 
Our investigator said it was difficult to determine what the requested mortgage loan amount 
had been, on 5 April. The parties disagreed on that. Mr P had been able to evidence a 
request for £140,000 and HL had amended its offer to be based on this amount. Our 
investigator thought that was fair. She said other amounts were discussed, but that was for 
illustration purposes. And it also appears from the limited correspondence provided by both 
parties that Miss P wasnt looking to take out a large loan. So our investigator wouldnt ask 
HL to reassess its compensation based on an intended loan of £160,000. 
Our investigator said she understood that Mr P told us Miss P would also have to pay 
interest on the loan from him. But she said that HL cant be asked to cover this. She hadnt 
seen any evidence that interest payments were made by Miss P, and we cant consider any 
loss to Mr P here. 
Our investigator did think that HL should increase the amount it offered in compensation. 
She said Miss P had told us that discovering her application hadnt been forwarded to the 
lender triggered panic attacks. This happened at a time when rates were increasing and, as 
Miss P put it, changing on a daily basis. 
Mr P said £1,000 would be an adequate reflection of the stress and anxiety caused. But our 
investigator said the aim was to compensate Miss P, not punish HL. She said whilst she had 
no doubt this had been a very difficult time for Miss P, £1,000 was more than she thought 
would fairly put right the impact here. She said that given Miss Ps application was only 
progressed in late March, its reasonable to assume Miss P must have realised her existing 
mortgage would revert to the lenders SVR before she got an offer, which is why Mr P made 
a capital repayment, significantly reducing the mortgage balance. And she said we werent 
able to take account of any financial loss, distress or inconvenience experienced by Mr P.
Our investigator thought HL should pay an extra £200 in compensation for this complaint.
Mr P, on Miss Ps behalf, strongly disagreed. He sent detailed further representations, which 
both reiterate and expand upon the arguments set out above. Mr P wanted this complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr P told us that Miss Ps previous fixed interest rate period on her mortgage ended 
unexpectedly at the end of March. I can see messages which suggest that Mr P discussed a 
remortgage with the broker at the start of February. I can see some potential mortgage 
illustrations were provided in February, and there are messages suggesting the broker 
chased this up in February and then again in late March. However a full application doesnt 
appear to have been pursued until the end of March. 
Mr P had understood this application was submitted on 5 April. We now know it wasnt no 
application was ever sent to the lender or loaded onto HLs system. 
HL has accepted responsibility for the fact that no application was made. It says this was 
due to mental health problems that the broker was experiencing at the time. It has offered 
the following in compensation  
Additional interest Miss P would have to pay over the next five years  based on 
£140,000 of borrowing - £7,979.40
Arrangement fees - £894 in arrangement fees
Six weeks of additional interest on Miss Ps old mortgage, at SVR - £83
Compensation - £100 
Total - £9,056.40
Mr P contests this. He says that the amount borrowed was supposed to be £160,000, not 
£140,000, and Miss Ps future losses should be based on the difference between the interest 
rate she could have obtained in early April and the interest rate she eventually obtained, on 
the £160,000 of borrowing she did eventually secure. 
HL says it can only see evidence that Mr P asked for £140,000 of borrowing. Mr P says 
although this is the only written evidence, he rang the broker on the day of the application, to 
ask for a higher amount. 
Theres no agreement on the amount applied for, and no clear contemporaneous evidence 
of that. And Mr P has no record of this call with the broker where he made the request for 
more lending. He initially told us that he couldnt access his phone records from this time, but 
he has since managed to show a record of a short outgoing call on this date. He says the 
call in question though was an incoming call, which he cant evidence. And HL obviously has 
no record of an application that its broker never actually made. 
That means I have to weigh up the evidence we do have, and decide whats most likely to 
have happened. 
Before I do that, I should address a point Mr P has made, about the relative weight to be 
given to different evidence in this case. Mr P says that the broker in this case had quite 
clearly lied, so he thought that when an issue had to be judged on the balance of 
probabilities, then given the history of the case, it ought to favour his version of events. I understand why Mr P would expect me to approach the brokers version of events with 
some caution. However, much of the evidence to be weighed here is either 
contemporaneous written evidence, or evidence from HP more generally. To suggest that 
HPs existing staff are also lying would be a very serious accusation, and I see no reason to 
assume that HP more generally is trying to deceive our service about this case.
HL said when it spoke to Mr P about this complaint, he said the application was only for 
£120,000. But we do have written evidence that Mr P asked for £140,000 on the morning 
that the application was made. HL has accepted this, and offered compensation based on 
this amount. 
I have seen a message between the broker and Mr P, from 5 April, which says Please see 
attached. When you make the application please do it for ??140K - just in case. We will end 
up using less. Regards.
It appears that this was sent in the very early hours of the morning, on the same date as 
messages between Mr P and the broker suggested that the application was being done 
(although we now know it wasnt). 
Mr P has shown us evidence of a very short call to the broker on the same day that hed 
understood the application was being made, at 13.54. He says that he left a voicemail, but 
the call is only three seconds in duration, so I cannot be confident that this is sufficient time 
for a voicemail to have been left. 
There are unfortunately no call recordings showing that Mr P and the broker actually spoke 
on 5 April. The screenshots we have suggest they were communicating by email that day. 
They also suggest that the broker messaged Mr P after his call, and Mr P replied, saying 
Thank just checking if you need anything else. Although the evidence I have isnt 
consistent on this, as later screenshots seem to omit Mr Ps reply, the chain of messages 
does seem to follow more logically if this quoted message from Mr P was sent.
There are no screenshots or emails on this date showing this higher figure of £160,000. 
Mr P now says the broker rang him back, and on that call Mr P asked him to increase the 
mortgage amount to £160,000. This doesnt point in the same direction as the written 
evidence we do have, where Mr P asked for a smaller amount, and said he didnt envisage 
Miss P needing all of that. And the notes made by HL when Mr P complained say he only 
mentioned borrowing of £120,000. 
Ive also taken account of the fact that Miss P did later apply for £160,000 in borrowing. Mr P 
says this is evidence that he had asked for the same amount previously, but unfortunately, 
Mr P seems to have initially been unsure whether Miss P ought to borrow £150,000 or 
£160,000 when he was exploring this second, successful application, and theres no 
reference there to the amount Miss P wanted in her 5 April borrowing request. So I think it 
would be equally consistent with all the written evidence we have, if Mr P had only ever 
asked for £140,000. 
I know Mr P says the reason he rang the broker was to increase the amount. But in these 
circumstances, I dont think Im able to decide its more likely than not that Mr P did speak to 
the broker on 5 April and ask him to increase Miss Ps requested borrowing to £160,000. 
Mr P also said he hadnt asked to take out a mortgage for Miss P at 1.6%, with no lenders 
fee, hed asked for 1.44% including a lenders fee. He said that was the most cost effective option, and it made a difference of £285 over five years. So he thought the compensation 
should be based on 1.44%, but HL had used 1.6%. 
I can see an email where loans at both 1.44% (with a sizeable fee) and 1.6% (without a fee) 
are discussed. HLs notes suggest Mr P told it Miss P had applied for the 1.6% lending. 
I understand Mr Ps argument that he would always have chosen the more cost-effective 
lending, but its not clear to me that the lending with a fee would be the preferred lending for 
Miss P if she or Mr P were planning to pay further lump sums off the mortgage. And I also 
have to bear in mind that the offer HL makes is for a lump sum payment of compensation 
now. So Miss P will have the advantage of being able to use this right away to reduce her 
current lending, if she wishes. 
Bearing in mind the above, I think compensation based on HLs calculation of additional 
interest on £140,000 does form part of a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Mr P also said that money hed used to reduce Miss Ps mortgage was a loan, not a gift. But 
he said the terms of this loan went beyond simply asking Miss P to pay it back. He said the 
lending was always intended to attract interest at 2%, to be paid back out of Miss Ps 
eventual mortgage. Mr P says this was a verbal agreement, and says it was witnessed. 
In support of his argument, Mr P has shown us transactions suggesting Miss P has paid 
back the bulk of the money borrowed. But he hasnt shown us that Miss P has yet paid back 
either the interest, or the full amount of the original loan. Rather, Mr P said the interest wont 
be payable until Miss Ps financial circumstances improve. Mr P has also told us that the 
loan was partly repaid by the family reducing the amount of a planned gift to Miss P from 
£2,000 to £1,000. I do think this illustrates the informality of this arrangement.
Mr P said One should only focus on whether the loan exists or not. How it is handled in the 
family environment, given [Miss Ps] mental health, is only our concern. He noted that HP 
told the lenders it applied to that this was a loan. Mr P later said that It is  ridiculous to 
expect some sort of regular monthly payments of interest... from Miss P to him, and One 
cannot expect a family arrangement to match with a bank loan arrangement.
I think this payment was, at least in part, a loan, because Miss P appears to have paid some 
of it back. But even if I accept this was entirely a loan, and no part of it formed a gift at the 
time, or was likely to be forgiven, as a gift to Miss P in future, that wouldnt assist with this 
complaint. Our service is being asked to compel HL to cover Miss Ps loss  which isnt 
money she was lent, its the interest paid on any loan. And to compel HP to pay that, I have 
to be able to see it is a loss to her. So I have to see Miss P must pay interest on this money.
Mr P told us he borrowed some of this money himself, extending his mortgage, but I have no 
powers to make an award in respect of losses not experienced by Miss P. So unless I can 
see that Miss P has actually lost this money, the interest Mr P says she will have to pay 
eventually (or face a reduction in her future inheritance) I cannot ask HL to repay it.
Firstly, I would note that this payment doesnt seem to have been made initially to Miss P 
because of any difficulty with the mortgage application currently under consideration, but 
because Miss P hadnt expected her mortgage to end at that time. So any initial interest on 
such a loan, before a new mortgage offer could reasonably have been secured for Miss P, 
wouldnt seem to me to form part of this complaint. 
As for interest after this time, I would like to recognise that this is a sensitive issue, and that 
Mr P faces an extremely difficult situation if he seeks to recover interest from a close family member who is unwell. But I dont think I can fairly ask HL to pay interest on this loan. Ill 
explain why not. 
The evidence is that the principal hasnt been fully repaid  Miss P apparently didnt borrow 
sufficient money in her second, successful mortgage application to pay back all the money 
she had borrowed. I know Mr P says this is a family loan and how its handled is their 
business. But Ive explained that before I can require HP to make any payment, I have to be 
able to see it is a loss to her. 
I have considered this issue carefully, but on the evidence I have seen, I cannot be confident 
that this loss, in the form of interest payable on this lending, will ultimately fall on Miss P, 
rather than her family. 
Mr P also challenged the assessment of compensation in this case. He felt that £1,000 more 
fairly reflected the impact this case had. 
I do understand that Miss P has told us shes previously experienced mental health 
difficulties, but was otherwise well and not experiencing panic attacks before this problem. 
And I dont wish to downplay the ill health shes experienced. But I think its very difficult to 
unpick the impact of HLs brokers actions here, in not putting forward the application at all 
for Miss P, from other issues, such as Miss Ps previous mortgage ending unexpectedly at 
the end of March 2022 (which isnt part of this complaint) and the application not being 
progressed until the end of March 2022 (which doesnt appear to be HLs fault). 
So I do think that our investigators suggestion, of an increase in compensation from £100 to 
£300, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Miss Ps complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HL Partnership Limited must pay £9,256.40 now, made up of 
£8956.40 to cover Miss Ps additional costs, and £300 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman