DRN-4273547
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Santander UK Plc closed his bank accounts due to him not 
providing information which he felt was unreasonable. He says he has been treated in a 
discriminatory way due to his race.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. But before I do, I would like to highlight that this decision relates solely to 
accounts in Mr Hs name.
Its important to highlight that this service is unable to make a finding on whether 
something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. Only a court of law 
can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out within the act. However, I 
can consider whether Santander has acted in a fair and reasonable manner. To do 
that, I will take several things, including the Equality Act 2010 into consideration.
Having reviewed Santanders Terms and Conditions, which Mr H would have agreed 
to, prior to opening the accounts, I am satisfied it allows for Santander to request 
information from its customers. One of the reasons for this is to comply with 
regulatory requirements. 
The terms and conditions also allow for immediate account closure, they say:
In some situations we may close your account or end this agreement immediately 
without telling you first. Well only do this if we reasonably believe that
You havent acted in the way you agreed in these terms. Either more than once or in a 
serious way. For example, this would include if you dont provide us with information, 
weve reasonably asked for on more than one occasion. 
Santander has said, that as part of its know your customer policy (to satisfy 
regulatory requirements) it needed up to date information from Mr H.
I can see from the evidence submitted Mr H was asked to provide further information. 
Mr H provided most of the information which Santander asked for. But Mr H refused 
to provide statements of an account he holds with a third-party bank as he felt this 
was unreasonable. However, in its final response letter dated 20 March 2023, 
Santander made it clear it still required the statements due to a regulatory 
requirement (in line with its terms and conditions) and if it didnt receive the 
statements, it would place restrictions on the accounts.
In line with the terms and conditions, as Santander has asked for this information on 
more than one occasion and the information hadnt been provided, it is entitled to 
close the accounts immediately.
While I appreciate how strongly Mr H feels that the information Santander requested 
was unreasonable, I cant say it wasnt acting in line with the terms and conditions of 
the accounts. The terms and conditions clearly outline it can ask for further 
information for many different reasons. As such I cant say it acted unreasonably in 
doing so and it provided reasons as to why it needed the statements (to comply with 
regulations).
From the system notes provided, I can see that on 31 March 2023 Santander wrote 
to Mr H to let him know it had made the decision to close the accounts. It said it 
would give him two months notice. As mentioned above, Santander didnt need to 
give two months notice as the terms allow it to close an account immediately in 
these circumstances.
Santander has provided evidence to show the accounts were closed on 1 and 2 June 
2023. Therefore, Santander ensured it provided the two months notice it said it 
would.
So, while I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling, and the fact he feels it was 
unnecessary to ask for this information, I am satisfied Santander is entitled to do so. I 
cant fairly conclude that Santander treated him unfairly or unreasonably. It acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account, as such, I am satisfied it treated    
Mr H the same as any other customer in the same circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman