DRN-4519858
The complaint
Mr L complains that Great Lakes Insurance UK Limited withdrew medical cover under his 
annual travel insurance policy after he let it know about a change in his health.
What happened
Mr L took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. He declared several 
medical conditions, which Great Lakes agreed to cover. Mr L was due to travel abroad on 
holiday.
However, in August 2023, shortly before Mr L was due to travel, he was diagnosed with a 
basal cell carcinoma and treatment was scheduled for after his return. Mr L contacted the 
broker to declare his diagnosis and proposed treatment.
But as Mr L was waiting for treatment, Great Lakes concluded that it was no longer prepared 
to offer Mr L any medical cover at all and it also withdrew cover for the conditions it had 
previously agreed to cover. It offered Mr L three options:
To cancel his holiday and make a cancellation claim on the policy;
To cancel the policy and obtain a pro-rata refund of premium;
To travel without medical cover for any of his existing medical conditions.
Given the proximity to his departure date, Mr L didnt want to cancel his holiday. And he also 
didnt want to travel without medical cover. So he chose to cancel the policy and was paid a 
pro-rata refund of premium of £167.43. He took out a new policy with another insurer, which 
did provide medical cover and which cost Mr L £545.20.
Mr L was unhappy with Great Lakes decision to withdraw medical cover and so he asked us 
to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought that Great Lakes had shown that it had fairly withdrawn medical 
cover. She noted that under the terms of the policy, Mr L had been entitled to cancel his 
holiday and make a claim for up to £1000 of cancellation costs. However, instead, hed 
chosen to travel as planned. Hed taken out a new policy, which cost less than Great Lakes 
potential liability under the terms of the contract. So the investigator felt Mr L had mitigated 
Great Lakes potential losses. She considered the fair outcome to this complaint would be for 
Great Lakes to pay Mr L the cost of his new policy less the amount of the pro-rata refund 
hed already received.
Mr L accepted the investigators recommendation, but Great Lakes did not. So the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators principles say that a financial business must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ls policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think Great Lakes 
treated Mr L fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Great Lakes and Mr L. Its common ground that after Mr L was diagnosed with 
basal cell carcinoma and treatment was proposed, he contacted Great Lakes to tell it about 
his new condition, in line with the policy terms. The contract terms explain a policyholders 
options if Great Lakes is unable to cover a policyholder following notification of a change in 
their health. And Ive set out the relevant term below:
If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation) for your costs 
which cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health. 
Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium.
Weve been provided with evidence which shows that Great Lakes withdrew medical cover 
for Mr L in line with underwriting guidance. It isnt unusual for travel insurers to refuse to 
provide cover if a policyholder is under investigation, or if treatment is pending. So Im 
satisfied Great Lakes was reasonably entitled to conclude that it could no longer offer Mr L 
medical cover and that it would have treated any of its other policyholders in the same 
situation in the same way.
Great Lakes offered Mr L the option to cancel his trip and make a cancellation claim, or to 
cancel the policy and obtain a pro-rata refund of premium. I appreciate Mr L chose to cancel 
the policy and was paid a proportionate premium refund. So I think Great Lakes acted in line 
with a strict application of the policy terms.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms, if I think their application 
produces an unfair result. Here, Mr L would have been entitled to cancel his holiday and 
make a claim for costs up to the policy limit of £1000. From what hes told us about his 
potential cancellation costs, it seems Great Lakes is likely to have been liable to pay up to 
the full limit. So its full potential liability appears to have been £1000.
Instead, Mr L chose to significantly mitigate Great Lakes potential losses by cancelling the 
policy and taking out an alternative policy instead, to enable him to travel with medical cover 
in place. As such then, I think that in these specific circumstances, it would be fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to step outside of a strict application of the policy terms. In my 
view, the fair outcome to this complaint is for Great Lakes to pay Mr L compensation to the 
value of the cost of the new policy, less the pro-rata refund its already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance UK Limited to pay Mr L fair compensation of £545.20, 
representing the value of the new policy he purchased, less the pro-rata refund of £167.43 
hes already been paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman