DRN-3717626
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Premier Insurance Company Limited (Premier) didnt arrange for
repairs to her car following an accident she was involved in, under her motor insurance
policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs H was manoeuvring out of a parking space when she collided with a 
concrete post. She made a claim to Premier and it arranged for an inspection. However, no
action was taken to repair the damage.
Mrs H says she has contacted Premier on many occasions. This has caused her significant
inconvenience and frustration. She says she has been unable to sell her car due to
Premiers failure to complete the repairs.
Premier says a system error meant it didnt receive an estimate from its appointed garage. It
acknowledges its handling of the claim hasnt been good and Mrs H hasnt been kept
informed of what was happening. It also acknowledges she was often kept on hold when
calling and was passed through to an overflow team that couldnt help her. Premier offered
£300 compensation for these issues.
Mrs H didnt accept this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator
upheld her complaint. Because of the poor customer service and delays she thought a total
compensation payment of £1,050 was fair. In addition to Premier paying for the repairs to be
completed at Mrs Hs choice of repairers.
Premier didnt respond so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the records provided that Mrs H first contacted Premier in June 2021 to make
a claim. She says an inspection of the damage was arranged around this time. I understand
photos were taken of her car when it was at her place of work.
I have read the notes provided by Premier and the testimony from Mrs H to understand why
the repairs werent carried out nearer to the time the claim was registered.
From the records provided I can see Mrs Hs insurance broker contacted Premier in August
2021. It asked that someone should contact her. The notes dont show if this was actioned.
Mrs H submitted a complaint later in August. The next entry in the notes is from March 2022.
This is an internal email asking that Mrs Hs claim be looked into. It says a mobile estimate
was performed in June 2021 but that this wasnt followed up and Mrs H was not informed of
this.
Mrs H says she has made, endless calls to Premier when trying to sort out her claim. She
received no updates and spent a lot of time being passed between departments. This
involved waiting in long call queues. Mrs H says the time spent dealing with this matter on
the phone has interrupted her work. She also says she intended selling her car but is unable
to do so until the repairs are carried out, which has yet to happen.
We asked Premier if it had any further contact notes. But it says it has already sent all
relevant records. I think its unlikely that the notes provided show the full extent of the
contact Mrs H made with Premier. Its now over a year since she registered her claim. I think
its reasonable to accept her testimony that she spent a great deal of time contacting the
business over this period. I note that Premier acknowledges it has provided a poor service,
particularly around communication.
I have thought about the impact this has had on Mrs H and whether Premiers compensation
offer is fair. I dont think it is. We expect an insurance company to handle claims in an
effective and timely manner. This claim has been outstanding for a long period because of
an error on Premiers part. It hasnt shown that it kept Mrs H informed of what was going on.
And I dont think its records are complete in showing the efforts she made when trying to
progress matters.
It must have been very frustrating for Mrs H to continually have to contact Premier over such
a long period and be provided with no clear understanding of when her car would be
repaired. I note her comments that this interfered with her work duties and has also
prevented her from selling her car. I think its reasonable to accept a damaged car will be
more difficult to sell, and this will also impact on its value. I dont agree with our investigators
recommended compensation for £1,050. But I do think the circumstances justify a higher
payment than Premier offered. I think a total compensation payment of £750 is fair and in
line with our services approach to such awards.
We asked Premier when Mrs Hs car is expected to be repaired. It says although the repairs
have been authorised it cant contact its repairer. Given the significant delays in arranging
repairs and the lack of certainty provided by Premier regarding its chosen repairer, I think
its reasonable to allow Mrs H to choose an alternative. Premier can then pay the invoice Mrs
Hs provides to carry out the repairs it has approved.
In summary I dont think Premier treated Mrs H fairly when handling her claim. It should pay
her a total of £750 compensation and arrange for the repairs to be completed in a timely
manner. Alternatively, it should allow Mrs H to appoint her own repairer and pay the invoice
for the repairs it has approved.
I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Premier Insurance Company Limited 
should:
pay a total of £750 compensation for the inconvenience and frustration it caused; and
arrange for the repairs to be completed in a timely manner; or
pay for Mrs Hs chosen repairer to carry out the work.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Premier says it accepts my provisional decision and has no further comments or information 
for me to consider. Mrs H also says that she accepts my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. Premier Insurance Company Limited should:
pay a total of £750 compensation for the inconvenience and frustration it caused; and
arrange for the repairs to be completed in a timely manner; or
pay for Mrs Hs chosen repairer to carry out the work.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman