DRN-4027807
The complaint
Mr H complains TSB Bank plc didnt do enough to help him with a debit card dispute and
provided poor customer service.
What happened
The details of this complaint were well known to both parties, so rather than repeat them, I 
focussed on the reasons for my decision. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2022 Mr H used his TSB debit card to pay a merchant for some 
headphones. In November 2022 he raised a debit card dispute with TSB. He wanted 
a refund as the headphones were faulty and the merchant hadnt refunded him. TSB, 
as I would expect, asked Mr H to provide information and evidence to support his 
dispute.
Mr H had some issues uploading documents to TSBs disputes system. He raised 
this with TSB by email on 25 November 2022. Based on an email trail provided by 
Mr H, as well as recordings of two calls on 9 December 2022 provided by TSB, Im 
not persuaded TSB supported Mr H as it ought to have. I say this because TSB 
doesnt appear to have engaged with the issue Mr H was experiencing, didnt always 
respond to his emails, and didnt call him back when it said it would.
Ultimately a complaint was logged, but the underlying issue  Mr Hs difficulties 
uploading documents to support his dispute  wasnt addressed. Fortunately, by the 
time TSB issued its final response letter in late December 2022, the merchant had 
refunded Mr H, so there was no longer a need to continue with the dispute.
TSB apologised for any upset it had caused Mr H, paid him £30 compensation and 
offered to consider any costs he incurred. Im not persuaded this fairly reflects the 
impact this matter had on Mr H. Its clear from the emails and the call recordings 
Mr H was increasingly frustrated with how TSB was communicating with him and that 
he spent quite a lot of time attempting to proceed with his dispute to no avail. In my 
view £100 compensation  in total  is a fair and reasonable amount in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr H considers TSB should pay him more compensation than I intend to 
require of it. He has been emailing TSB on a regular basis and says he has  and will 
continue to  charge it £5 a day until this complaint is resolved to his satisfaction. I 
dont consider this an appropriate methodology for determining fair compensation.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr H a further £70
compensation.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. TSB has provided no further comments or evidence 
for to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of disagreement, and further comments or evidence, I see no compelling 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr H a further £70 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman