DRN-3464631
The complaint
Mr J complains that MBNA Limited unfairly declined a claim he made under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) for breach of contract by a retailer who he 
says failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a guarantee.
What happened
In November 2015 Mr J purchased a mattress that came with a five-year guarantee 
against manufacturing defects. Mr J paid a deposit for the mattress with the credit card 
he has via MBNA and the remainder via a credit agreement with another provider.
After around four years, Mr J says he noticed that the mattress was deteriorating and 
becoming uncomfortable. He says this got worse until the mattress became unusable. 
In October 2020 Mr J contacted the retailer and provided photos of the condition of 
the mattress and asked to make a claim against the guarantee.
The retailer responded that as more than six months had now passed since the mattress 
had been supplied to Mr J, he would need to provide an independent report as to the 
nature of the fault. It also said Mr J would have to cover the cost of this report but if it was 
shown that the problem with the mattress was due to a manufacturer fault then it would 
reimburse the cost of any report up to £100.
Mr J disagreed with the retailers request and said this was in breach of the terms and 
conditions of the guarantee. He said the guarantee stated that Sometimes we might 
arrange to send a furniture technician to have a look. The decision of the inspector will be 
final. Mr J said this wording was clear it wasnt his responsibility to arrange for an 
inspection. The retailer disputed what Mr J said. It said that under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015, due to the passage of time the onus now rested with Mr J to prove that any fault 
with the mattress was due to a manufacturing defect and wasnt due to wear and tear or 
accidental damage.
In January 2021 Mr J, unhappy at the retailers response, made a claim under section 75 
to MBNA. A delay occurred in MBNA considering Mr Js claim due to an admin error and 
in May 2021 MBNA contacted the retailer as part of its investigation. The retailer said 
that as a gesture of goodwill it was prepared to cover the cost of an independent 
engineer inspecting the mattress and provided the details of the third-party company it 
intended to use.
MBNA passed the retailers offer to Mr J. Mr J said he didnt accept the offer as a gesture 
of goodwill as this was something the retailer was obliged to provide.
MBNA declined Mr Js claim under section 75. It said that it didnt find there had been a 
breach of contract as there wasnt evidence of a manufacturing fault with the mattress. 
It said it had informed Mr J throughout his claim that an inspection of the mattress 
would be required.
Mr J disagreed with the decision by MBNA and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He said although 
the guarantee wording was part of the sales agreement, when looking at its terms it was 
silent as to who would be responsible for paying for a report. Our investigator also said 
that when thinking about how long after purchase the fault had developed, he didnt think 
it was unreasonable for Mr J to have been asked to provide a report as to the nature of 
the defect. He said he didnt think there had been a breach of the contract and that 
MBNA had acted fairly in the way it had handled Mr Js claim under section 75.
Mr J disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said there wasnt any legislation or 
term in the guarantee that required him to provide either the retailer or MBNA with an 
independent report as to the condition of the mattress and bear that cost. Mr J says the 
guarantee only required him to provide photos and that the use of the term we when 
setting out that the retailer might sometimes send a furniture technician to inspect the 
mattress, inferred that it would be the retailer who bore the cost of that.
Mr J said that it was a clear breach of contract that he had been asked to undertake and 
pay for any inspection. He also said that MBNA had no right to share the details of his 
complaint with the retailer which was a data breach. Mr J said that his complaint to MBNA 
was a separate matter as MBNA was jointly or severally liable under section 75. His claim 
under that section had been for compensation due to the losses hed incurred from the 
breach of contract, namely the replacement of the mattress and the significant 
inconvenience caused by storing the old mattress in his home.
Mr J said that he would accept MBNA arranging and paying for an inspection though he 
queried the reliability of any such inspection now as it was possible the storing of the 
mattress may have caused a deterioration in its condition. He also said he didnt believe 
the third -party engineers that the retailer had wished to use would be truly independent 
and queried their expertise and impartiality.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer has 
paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a credit card, and they have a 
claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider which here is MBNA.
My role was to decide whether MBNA had acted fairly and reasonably in its response to Mr 
Js claim under section 75. Id seen that MBNA had looked at evidence from both Mr J and 
from the retailer before reaching its decision that there hadnt been a breach of contract. 
MBNA said there was no evidence the fault with the mattress had arisen from a 
manufacturing defect. It also said that the retailer had offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to 
cover the cost of an independent inspection of the mattress. MBNA said that it would look 
again at Mr Js claim if he provided it with his own independent report having declined the 
retailers offer.
Mr J said that the breach of contract has arisen because the retailer and then MBNA 
have both declined to cover the cost of the independent report which he said was a term 
of the guarantee which forms part of the contract.
Mr J also said that MBNA shouldnt have contacted the retailer about his claim under 
section 75 and that this amounted to a breach of data protection, but I disagreed. Id seen 
that MBNA had explained that part of the process of investigating a claim under section 75 
was for it to contact the retailer. And that although Mr J had declined authority for it to do 
so when making his claim, MBNA had considered that by his pursuing the matter Mr J 
could reasonably be considered as having given authority for it to pass the details of his claim to the retailer.
I thought MBNA had acted reasonably in carrying out an investigation into Mr Js claim 
which involved making contact with the retailer. Under section 75, MBNA are liable 
jointly and severally and so it was necessary for it to make enquiries with the retailer as 
to its version of events. I didnt agree that MBNA should have looked at Mr Js complaint 
on his evidence alone. So, I thought MBNA had been entitled to follow its set processes 
in dealing with a section 75 claim and consider that Mr Js section 75 claim had given 
them authority to do so.
Looking at the evidence that had been provided, I didnt think it was disputed that the five-
year guarantee that had been supplied with the mattress was part of the contract. This 
guarantee stated, We'll replace or repair any part of a bed defective due to faulty 
materials or workmanship within five years of purchase. It also set out that this guarantee 
would not cover damage due to excessive wear and tear or times when care instructions 
havent been followed. Accidental damage after our delivery team have left. Soiled 
products. So, I thought it was clear that this guarantee had parameters and for a 
successful claim to be made then it needed to be established what the cause of the fault 
was.
Mr J said that the guarantee stated that the only requirement on him was that he had to 
provide photos which he had done. He says there was no requirement for him to arrange 
and pay for an independent report and that the retailer had breached the terms of its 
contract with him by requiring him to do so. He said that the terms of the guarantee were 
clear as it said Sometimes we might arrange to send a furniture technician to have a 
look. The decision of this inspector will be final. Mr J also said that the use of the 
wording we might arrange inferred that the cost of this inspection was to be borne by 
the retailer.
As set out above, my role wasnt to decide whether a breach of contract had occurred but 
whether MBNA has dealt with Mr Js claim fairly. And I thought it had and I set out why. I 
didnt think it could be inferred from the wording that the cost of any independent report 
would be paid by the retailer. The guarantee was silent on that point so it could be argued 
that the cost fell to the consumer. It was also silent as to when an inspection and report 
would be required. But I thought what could be clearly inferred was that evidence would be 
required as to whether any fault that developed was an inherent defect with the mattress 
rather than wear and tear or accidental damage. This was because the guarantee was 
clear what it would and would not cover.
Here, I thought it was fair to consider that independent evidence would be essential 
considering that at the time of Mr Js complaint to the retailer hed had the mattress for 
nearly five years. Id seen that when the retailer had requested Mr J obtain the report it 
had also said that if the fault was subsequently found to be an inherent one that it would 
reimburse Mr J the cost of that report up to £100. I thought this request was reasonable. 
As the terms of the guarantee regarding who was responsible for paying for inspection 
reports and when one will be required were not precise then I thought it would be 
reasonable to conclude that the retailer hadnt breached the terms of the guarantee when 
it asked Mr J to arrange an inspection.
Id also seen that following Mr Js claim to MBNA, the retailer had then offered to 
arrange and pay for an independent inspection. This had been declined by Mr J as he 
required the retailer to acknowledged that it had breached the terms of the guarantee by 
making the request for a report the first time. MBNA had explained that it wasnt its role 
to negotiate between Mr J and retailer.Id seen that the mattress has not yet been inspected and that Mr J had raised objections 
to the third-party company that the retailer wished to instruct. I thought it was reasonable 
to say that if Mr J wished someone else to inspect the mattress then that would be a 
matter for him to arrange.
I thought MBNA had acted fairly when concluding that currently there wasnt evidence of a 
breach of contract and that it wasnt upholding Mr Js claim under section 75. I was 
satisfied that under the terms of the guarantee, evidence was required as to the nature of 
the fault. I was also satisfied that due to the imprecise wording regarding any inspection of 
the mattress that MBNA could reasonably consider there hadnt been a breach of the 
contract by the retailer requesting evidence from Mr J about the fault with the mattress.
I also thought it was fair for MBNA to have taken into account the retailers offer to now 
arrange and pay for an inspection which would enable evidence to be obtained since it 
could be jointly liable with the retailer under section 75.
So, for the reasons given above, I was not intending to uphold Mr Js complaint. I 
didnt think MBNA had acted unfairly in finding there was insufficient evidence that 
there had been a breach of contract.
I appreciated Mr Js concern that an inspection of the mattress now might not be accurate 
as it could have suffered further damage due to the manner in which it had been stored. 
But I thought an inspection was still required for a claim under the guarantee to be 
considered. It still needed to be ascertained whether the problem with the mattress was 
due to a manufacturing fault as opposed to another cause, such as wear and tear.
Mr J strongly disagrees with my provisional view. He says that I havent properly 
considered that he made a guarantee claim as opposed to a statutory rights claim. And 
that it is for MBNA to obtain a report and not him under section 75 claim.
Mr J also says that the MBNA illegally contacted the retailer because he had not 
consented to that and this was a breach of the data protection legislation. He also says 
MBNA did not act reasonably due to the delays and errors made when dealing with his 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the conclusions I have reached and although Im sorry Mr J has 
found this matter distressing, Im afraid I havent changed my view.
If I dont cover all the points raised by Mr J, then I dont mean any disrespect to him, but I 
have concentrated on the aspects of his response that I think are the most important.
Although I appreciate Mr Js claim under section 75 was based on his view that the 
guarantee had been breached, I think I have set out above the reasons as to why I 
disagreed with that and, on review, I havent reached any different conclusions. As I have 
explained, I dont think the terms of the guarantee were set out sufficiently clearly that it was 
a breach of its terms and conditions for Mr J to have been asked to supply further 
information as to what was wrong with the mattress. This guarantee applies if there is an 
inherent fault with the mattress and in order for there to be a successful claim then there 
would need to be evidence as to the cause of the fault. So, I dont agree that there was a breach of the contract due to the way Mr Js claim under the guarantee was handled.
I also dont think that although MBNA requested evidence to consider a statutory rights 
claim this was unfair to Mr J. The issue for either a claim under the guarantee or under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is that there is evidence that the goods had an inherent defect. 
I also disagree that when a consumer makes a section 75 claim it will be for the credit 
provider to arrange and pay for any inspection report. I think that it was reasonable in these 
circumstances, particularly when taking into account how long Mr J had had the mattress for, 
that independent evidence as to the condition of the mattress was required. And I dont think 
it was unfair for Mr J to be asked to obtain this. The retailer had originally offered to 
reimburse Mr J up to £100 if any report he obtained showed that the mattress was suffering 
from an inherent fault. Following his claim to MBNA however, the retailer then offered to 
arrange and pay for the inspection. 
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. Here, Mr J has 
raised that he believes MBNA acted unlawfully when it contacted the retailer about his 
section 75 claim as he said he didnt give it his consent to do so. I dont agree that MBNA 
acted unreasonably here, it wasnt seeking irrelevant personal information but 
investigating a claim under section 75. Mr J has raised that as he didnt give his consent 
to MBNA to contact the retailer this is a breach of Article 6(1) of the GDPR and that this 
has resulted in his suffering damage and distress. However, as set out above I still think 
MBNA was entitled to follow its processes and consider that by Mr J pursuing his claim 
under section 75 he had given it consent to contact the retailer.
Mr J says that MBNA didnt handle his claim fairly in light of the delays that arose. However, 
there is no time limit in which a decision for a section 75 claim must be made. I appreciate 
Mr J found the correspondence from MBNA frustrating as it raised his statutory rights, but I 
still think the conclusion it reached about his claim was reasonable. I agree with MBNAs 
conclusion that there wasnt enough evidence to find that there had been a breach of the 
contract as the cause of the faulty mattress hasnt been established. Meaning neither a 
breach of the guarantee nor of Mr Js statutory rights could be shown.
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman