DRN-2839464
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has 
handled a claim theyve made on their Buildmark buildings warranty.
What happened
Mrs W brings this complaint on behalf of herself and her husband, so for ease of reading Ill 
refer to her throughout. References I make to her actions include those of her husband.
NHBC used a number of agents throughout the life of the claim and reference I make to 
NHBCs actions include those of its agents, unless otherwise stated. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ill only refer to it in 
summary:
In June 2017, Mrs W purchased a new-build property which had the benefit of a 
Buildmark building warranty. 
Mrs W noticed various issues with the property including, but not limited to, loose 
staircase spindles, incorrectly sized windows, problems with drainage in the garden, 
problems with a toilet, uneven floors and doors hung too high
These were reported to the builder and ultimately to NHBC 
NHBC issued a number of Resolution Reports under its conciliation service and 
when the builder failed to resolve all the issues in time, NHBC agreed to complete 
some of the work
Mrs W wasnt happy with the way NHBC handled things and the quality of the work 
and so she complained 
NHBC issued a number of final responses but Mrs W remained unhappy and brought 
a complaint to this service
Our investigator explained we could only consider some of the issues Mrs W had 
raised as some were outside our jurisdiction and others had been brought to us 
outside the required timescales
Her investigation focused on two key issues covered by NHBCs final response in 
July 2020
The first was Mrs Ws dissatisfaction with the level of her living room floor
NHBC visited the property and issued a Resolution Report which required the builder 
to undertake relevelling works 
The builder did this but not to Mrs Ws satisfaction. NHBC was satisfied the floor had 
been brought into tolerance levels and was performing so declined to do any further 
work
Secondly, Mrs W was unhappy as she said the gaps under the downstairs internal 
doors were too large
A visit was undertaken and a Resolution Report was issued which required the 
builder to undertake further works. It rehung all the doors in the property but wasnt 
able to level the doorframes in the en-suite and guest bathroom as the flooring wasnt 
completely level 
NHBC took over the builders responsibility under Section 2 of the policy
It said the door couldnt be altered or adjusted more as it would not close and it 
declined to undertake relevelling of the floor as this was within tolerance  
Mrs W remained unhappy that the door frames were unfinished and the gaps 
underneath were still large
Our investigator considered all the evidence
She concluded that, following relevelling works by the builder, the living room floor 
was within the requirements set out by NHBC and therefore no further work was 
required on it. 
But she said NHBC should ensure the doors in the en-suite and bathroom were hung 
within tolerance, relevelling the floor, if necessary, to achieve this. 
And it should revisit the property to inspect the outstanding snagging issues and 
complete any substandard repairs.
Mrs W remained unhappy with this and asked an ombudsman to make a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from my review of the file, the problems Mrs W has experienced with her new home 
have been very stressful. Shes unhappy with the house builder and says its constructed 
and finished her house to a very poor standard. Shes also unhappy with way its dealt with 
addressing the numerous problems shes identified and has provided evidence of all of this 
as context. 
My role as an ombudsman at this Service only allows me to consider the actions of a 
relevant financially regulated business  in this case, NHBC  and whether it got anything 
wrong. I have no power to consider the actions of the builder, so I wont comment on or 
make any findings on what it did or failed to do. I also cant hold NHBC responsible for 
anything the builder got wrong or for the original build. 
Instead Ill focus my investigation on the actions of NHBC in its capacity as the provider of a 
Buildmark warranty and consider whether it did what it was required to do under the terms of 
the policy.
Our investigator rightly explained we couldnt look at all the issues raised by Mrs W and 
would instead focus on the two issues which were the subject of NHBCs final response 
letter in July 2020.  Mrs W seems broadly to have accepted this. 
These issues were reported in the first two years after the property was built so the claims 
were considered under Section 2 of the policy. In summary, Section 2 provides protection if 
the builder fails to meet NHBCs Technical Requirements when constructing the property. 
NHBC will be responsible for anything it decides the builder should have done - but didnt - 
to ensure the Technical Requirements are met.
NHBCs actions under Section 2 of the Buildmark policy only become a regulated activity - 
and therefore something I have the power to consider - when the insurance element of the 
warranty begins. And thats when
A Resolution report has been completed identifying the problem.
The report directs the builder to do something by a deadline.
The builder fails to complete the works by the deadline.
The issues at the heart of this complaint meet these requirements and were raised with this Service within the required timescales.
Building warranties generally dont cover every risk that might affect a building and 
Buildmark warranties are no different. The terms and conditions set out what is and isnt 
covered and therefore what homeowners can expect from their cover. 
NHBC also set out tolerances for some of its Technical Requirements and that means the 
specific item must be within an acceptable range of measurements. Its not within my remit 
to tell NHBC its tolerances are unacceptable. 
There may be instances where a policyholder thinks something should be covered by the 
policy or that the defined tolerances arent acceptable but Im unlikely to direct a business to 
do something if its not covered by the policy or if its been shown the item is within 
tolerance.
The claim relating to the level of the living room floor
Mrs W wasnt happy with the level of her living room floor. Following an inspection NHBC 
issued a Resolution Report which required the builder to address the issue as the floor was 
outside its Technical Requirements with a fall of between six to seven millimetres. 
Once the remedial work was undertaken, Mrs W remained unhappy. NHBC confirmed the 
builder provided photographs of the area together with measurements showing the floor was 
within the tolerances detailed in the Technical Requirements. 
I acknowledge Mrs W remains unhappy with the level of the floor and doesnt agree with the 
allowed tolerance. NHBC offered her the opportunity to provide evidence the floor is above 
or below tolerance but Ive not seen enough to persuade me it is. So Im satisfied NHBC has 
ensured the floor is now within tolerance and thats what its required to do under the policy.  
I wont be asking it to do anymore.   
The doorframe in the bathroom and en-suite
When the bathroom and en-suite were inspected during a site visit, the floor was found to be 
within tolerance and performing. As it met the Technical Requirements there was no need to 
include it in the Resolution Report as no further work was required on it.
What was identified by NHBC though was that internal doors in the property needed to be 
rehung as the gaps under the doorframes were too large and not in tolerance. The builder 
rehung all the internal doors including those in the en-suite and bathroom. When doing this, 
it became apparent that, while within tolerance, the floor wasnt completely flat meaning 
there was an uneven gap between the bottom of the door and the flooring. 
Some remedial work was undertaken to lower the door frames and Mrs W has provided 
photos of the result of this work. Ive considered the photos carefully and I agree the gaps 
between the bottom of the door and the flooring are noticeably uneven from one side of the 
door to the other. The photos also show significant and unsightly gaps at the bottom of the 
doorframes where remedial work looks like it hasnt been fully completed.
Overall, I dont think the work has been completed to an acceptable standard and Im 
satisfied NHBC needs to undertake further remedial work to address these issues.Our investigator said NHBC should look at a range of options to correct the problem even if 
the connected works arent required under the terms of the policy. And she thought if 
relevelling the floor was the only way to achieve an effective and lasting repair, then she 
thought it reasonable for NHBC to do this.
I agree that NHBC need to address the issues as its clear from the photos provided that the 
work hasnt been completed to an acceptable standard.  I dont propose to be prescriptive 
about the work NHBC should undertake but whatever it does needs to achieve an effective 
and lasting repair and be completed to an acceptable standard. In achieving this, it should  
consider the full range of options available to it address the problem, even if the connected 
works arent covered by the warranty. 
If once its done this Mrs W remains unhappy, she can of course make a further complaint to 
NHBC.
Snagging List
NHBC confirmed in its FRL there were snagging issues which it would ensure were 
addressed. I think it should attend the property to undertake an inspection, agree what 
needs to be done and then undertake the work to provide a lasting and effective repair, if it 
hasnt done so already.
Other issues
Mrs W has raised some further problems that occurred after NHBCs final response on the 
two issues which are the subject of this decision. Our investigator already explained these 
new issues wont be considered under this complaint. But if Mrs W complains to NHBC 
about them and remains unhappy with its response, she can, of course, ask us to investigate 
them under a new complaint. 
Putting things right
NHBC needs to address the works Ive detailed in my findings above.
When assessing the level of compensation I think is appropriate in this case, I need to keep 
in mind that the issues under review here are only a small part of the overall problems 
Mrs W says she has experienced with her new home.  In reaching my decision I can only 
take into consideration NHBCs actions on these specific issues, not what happened 
elsewhere or the service she received from the original house builder.
I thought about this very carefully about this complaint and have decided that NHBC should 
pay Mrs W £200 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused on the issues under 
review in this complaint. I realise Mrs W is likely to be disappointed and consider this to be 
inadequate given the wider problems shes experienced with the house but I consider it fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National House-Building Council 
to:
Undertake remedial works to resolve the uneven gap under the bathroom and en-
suite doors in line with my findings aboveUndertake remedial works to the bottom of the door frames in line with my findings 
above
Ensure the snagging issues are resolved in line with my findings above.
Pay Mr and Mrs W £200 for the trouble and upset it has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman