DRN-1536936
 
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy the Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) are pursuing her to repay her 
mortgage in full and wont agree to extend the term of her mortgage.
What happened 
In 1993 Ms D took out an interest only mortgage for around £69,350 for a term of 25 years. It 
was secured over her residential property. The mortgage came to an end in around July 
2018 and Ms D currently owes over £57,000.
Ms D asked Co-op if she could extend the term of the mortgage, most recently by five years, 
with the option to pay it off at any time. 
Co-op has been reluctant to agree to this. Although Ms D has made some proposals about 
how she would repay at the end of or during an extended term, Co-op doesn't think the 
information shes provided has been clear enough for it to agree what shes asked.
Ms Ds unhappy about how Co-op has treated her, particularly given her health concerns. 
Ms D complained to Co-op, which didnt think it had done anything wrong, so she brought 
her complaint to this service. Our investigator thought Co-op had treated Ms D fairly and 
reasonably. Since Ms D didnt agree with what our investigator said, Ive reviewed everything 
afresh to come to a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms Ds acknowledged, under the terms of her mortgage shes obliged to pay back what 
she owes to Co-op as the term has come to an end.
Id expect Co-op to consider the options available to Ms D to pay back her mortgage, to 
consider any reasonable requests she makes for more time to pay and only take steps to 
repossess her property as a final resort.
I can see Ms Ds struggled to pay her mortgage from time to time during the term. It was 
converted to a repayment mortgage and back to interest only a couple of times. But from 
August 2005 onwards its been on an interest only basis.  
During the term of the mortgage Co-op sent Ms D regular statements which explained her 
responsibilities to repay her mortgage when it came to an end. As Id expect, Co-op also 
reminded Ms D several times  including in 2007, 2013 and 2017 - that her mortgage would 
end in 2018 and that shed need to be able to repay it when it did. Co-op offered to review 
things with Ms D and asked her to contact it if she had any concerns about how shed repay. I think Co-op gave Ms D plenty of notice shed need to make arrangements to repay the loan 
when it came to an end and several chances to discuss things if she was concerned about 
how shed repay. 
From what Ive seen, Ms D has had the means to make payments towards paying off the 
mortgage but has chosen to use some of the money shes had for other things.
Ms D originally planned to use funds from an endowment policy to repay her mortgage. But 
she used that money to invest in a property she owns overseas and to carry out a loft 
conversion which she felt would increase the value of her property.
In around April 2017 Ms D told Co-op shed use an ISA to pay towards the mortgage. I 
understand shes recently used money from the ISA to make adaptations to her property to 
help with her mobility issues. Im sorry to hear of the difficult time Ms Ds had with her health 
and can understand why shes wanted to make living in her property easier. But, to be fair to 
both parties, I must bear in mind she started these works knowing she had to repay the 
mortgage and there was a risk Co-op would take action to repossess her property if she 
didnt. 
Ms Ds explained to Co-op shes waiting to receive money from her late fathers estate. 
Shes said some complications have arisen with that.  But Co-ops unhappy Ms D hasnt 
explained what the problems with the administration of her fathers estate are. I think its 
reasonable for Co-op to be told what the problems are and to have some certainty about 
how much money Ms D might get and when the money will be available before it agrees to 
give her more time.
Ms Ds also told Co-op she owns a valuable piece of jewellery which, if sold, would provide a 
significant sum towards paying off the mortgage. Although shes provided some evidence of 
the jewellery, Ms D hasnt taken any steps to sell it to pay off some of what she owes. 
Im satisfied Co-ops considered the proposals Ms Ds put forward reasonably. Its thought 
about Ms Ds overseas assets and the information Ms Ds provided about her fathers estate 
and the jewellery she owns. But the information Ms D has given Co-op isnt enough for    Co-
op to assess whether shell be able to repay her mortgage using them. And Ms D hasnt 
taken any steps to sell the jewellery as Ive said. 
Staying in the property Ms Ds started adapting to help her get around more easily would 
benefit her. But, given the overall circumstances, and since it appears Ms Ds got assets she 
could sell to pay off some of the mortgage, I dont think its unreasonable that Co-op hasnt 
agreed to extend the mortgage term as Ms Ds requested.
Co-op has looked at other ways of helping Ms D. Its referred her to an associated company 
which would be able to discuss the possibility of taking out a lifetime mortgage, as Co-op 
doesnt offer those itself. And Co-ops prepared to discuss with Ms D extending the term of 
her mortgage on a repayment basis subject to assessing if that would be affordable for her. I 
think its reasonable for Co-op to satisfy itself Ms D can afford to make the increased 
monthly payments that would be necessary to pay interest and capital each month before 
agreeing to that.
Co-ops communicated with Ms D regularly and has explained clearly why it hasnt been able 
to accept her proposals.
Although I understand it will have been upsetting for Ms D to hear from Co-op that it might 
need to repossess her property, I think it was fair for them to say that might happen. Co-op 
offered to keep in touch with Ms D to discuss how it could help and told her repossession would be a last resort. But I think it was reasonable for Co-op to tell her it was unable to let 
the mortgage continue indefinitely.
Ms D told Co-op about her ill-health in around April 2019. Although Ms D was upset Co-op 
asked for evidence about that, I think it was reasonable for Co-op to ask for more information 
so it could take that into account in how it treated her. And Co-op has taken her situation into 
account. For example, on one occasion it arranged a field agent visit as she didnt want to 
speak on the phone and offered to do the same again. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think Co-ops treated Ms D fairly and reasonably and I dont 
uphold her complaint. I understand Co-ops put court action on hold whilst this service 
considered Ms Ds complaint. Id encourage Ms D to carry on talking to Co-op about her 
options, and she may also wish to take advice from an independent financial adviser about 
what she can do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman