DRN-1619095
The complaint
  This complaint is about a new fixed rate Mr S took in 2018 on his mortgage with Santander 
UK plc. He believes his property was under-valued, leaving him with a higher rate than he 
should have had.
What happened
  The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Santander offers different rates to its customers, depending on what loan-to-value (LTV) 
band their mortgage falls into. It can do that; its a matter of commercial judgement and not 
something I should interfere with. 
With a new mortgage, it typically has a contemporaneous valuation from a suitably-qualified 
valuer to rely on. But for a new product on an existing mortgage, Santander (like most 
lenders) uses a desk valuation; that is, a figure arrived at by applying a recognised house 
price index to the last-known actual valuation. 
In Mr S case, Santanders desk valuation placed him in its 75-80% LTV band, which gave 
him a rate of 2.49%. Mr S argument now is that his propertys true value would have placed 
him in the 60-65% LTV band, which he says would have made him eligible for a rate of less 
than 2%. 
The desk valuation isnt routinely disclosed. Mr S did ask to see it, but Santander accepts it 
didnt respond to his request. Clearly, it should have done, and if it had, Mr S would then 
have had the opportunity to challenge it, and if need be, pay for an up to date actual 
valuation. But Mr S didnt do that; rather than press for disclosure of the desk valuation, he 
accepted the new deal Santander had offered him. By doing that, Mr S accepted 
Santanders use of the desk valuation that he had not seen.
Its right that Santander should pay Mr S modest compensation for not providing the desk 
valuation; and in my view £50 is fair in all the circumstances. But it doesnt have to change 
the terms of the mortgage deal he accepted in 2018.
 
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Santander UK Plc to 
pay Mr S £50. I make no other order or awards. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman