DRN-3918345
The complaint
Mr H complains that Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG
(Helvetia) declined his complaint for damage to his sofa, under his furniture warranty policy.
Any reference in my decision to Helvetia includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H contacted Helvetia to make a claim for a scuff hed noticed on his leather sofa. Helvetia
arranged for an inspection of the damage. Its technician reported that the leather was
peeling because of contamination from hair or skin oils and perspiration over time. Helvetia
declined the claim saying this kind of damage was excluded by its policy. It refers to a
specific exclusion regarding changes in colour caused by perspiration, hair and body oils or
wear and tear.
Mr H says he thought the damage might have been caused by contact with a ring. He didnt
think it was fair that Helvetia could decline his claim for a sofa that was just over a year old
based on a wear and tear exclusion. Because he didnt agree he referred his complaint to
our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think the evidence supported the sofa
damage being excluded under the policy terms. He says Helvetia should accept Mr Hs claim
subject to the remaining terms and conditions.
Mr H agreed with this outcome, Helvetia didnt. It accepts that the exclusion it highlighted
wasnt relevant as the damage wasnt about a change of colour of the sofa. But it says the
cause of the damage occurred gradually over a period of time and isnt the result of a
specific accidental event. As it didnt agree with our investigators outcome Helvetia asked
for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
Its the role of the customer to show they have suffered an insured event. If they can then,
generally speaking, the insurer must pay the claim, unless its able to rely on a policy
exclusion that shows it neednt.
Mr H reported a scuff on his sofa. Ive seen photos of the damage that show a small area
where the leather is damaged. This area is approximately half a centimetre long and a
quarter of a centimetre wide. Ive read Mr Hs policy terms to understand what is and isnt
covered. The terms say:
What is covered: ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE LEATHER: STAINING UNTREATED
Accidental damage: The sudden and unforeseen damage to the product(s) not otherwise
excluded under this policy.
Also:
4 WHAT IS COVERED
iii) ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE: Leather: Accidental damage resulting in a: Rip or tear  Burn 
Scratch  Puncture  Scuff.
In its final complaint response Helvetia relied on the following exclusion:
WHAT IS NOT COVERED: Any claim for or resulting from the following will not be valid:
Changes in colour of any part of the product caused by sunlight, perspiration; natural hair
and body oils or wear and tear.
The claim isnt about a change of colour. Helvetia acknowledges this point in its later
submission to our service. So, this exclusion doesnt apply in the way it is referenced in
Helvetias complaint response. However, it says its earlier reference to the policy covering
specific accidental events is of relevance. It says the policy isnt a general maintenance or
cleaning contract. And that its expert determined the damage was caused over a period of
time and so this isnt covered by its policy.
I can see under the heading What is not covered the policy also excludes, Any damage
resulting from wear and tear.
Helvetia agreed with our investigators view that Mr Hs sofa doesnt show signs of excessive
use. However, it says this isnt relevant. It explains that its policy doesnt provide cover for
defects or issues around quality. It says Mr H will have a manufacturing guarantee through
the retailer for this. Helvetia says its policy means its only liable for repairing accidents but
not for ensuring the sofa withstands normal use for the period of cover.
Ive read the technicians report. It refers to a rub and heat test that showed oil was present
in the leather where the damage was noticed. The report says:
This is from the head oils and sweat so is a build up over time and over time the leather has
peeled and flaking off. This is local conditions and wear over time.
Helvetia, in its complaint response, says the rub test is to see if colour comes off on a cloth
from rubbing the leather. This didnt happen here, which confirms there were no tannery
issues or faults with the leather hide itself. It says the heat test involves brown paper placed
over the damaged area, which is gently heated to draw out any oil that has been absorbed
into the leather over time. In the technicians report there is a photo of the brown paper used
for the heat test. A mark can be seen on the paper.
Helvetia says peeling of the leather is typical when it becomes contaminated to a certain
point. It says this isnt caused by a single incident and can only occur through exposure and
accumulation over time.
Im not an expert in this area and must rely on the opinion of those who are. Helvetias
technician carried out a standardised industry test to determine the cause of the damage to
Mr Hs sofa. Its conclusion that the damage is the result of contamination from natural hairand/or body oils, is, I think, more persuasive than the damage having been caused by a
scuff.
Ive thought about whether Helvetia can reasonably decline the claim based on the damage
being caused gradually. I think it can because the definition of what constitutes accidental
damage is made clear in the policy terms. It doesnt include something that happens
gradually.
So, in the absence of any expert report which demonstrates there has been another cause 
of damage, or that the conclusions and test results carried out by Helvetia are incorrect, Im
unable to conclude Helvetia has acted unfairly by relying on its experts conclusions, and
declining the claim based on the policy exclusions.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but for the reasons given here, I dont think Helvetia acted
unfairly, so I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve this complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Helvetia didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
Mr H responded to say that he contacted Helvetia when he noticed a scuff on the head rest 
of his sofa. He says the technician who assessed the damage concluded the damage had 
been caused by contamination from hair and skin oils. Mr H questions why the whole 
headrest isnt peeling and asks why no further peeling has occurred since the technician 
visited in May 2022. 
Mr H says that to claim that the damage has occurred through wear and tear in just over one 
year is ridiculous. He says no-one told him that if someone had greasy hair when using the 
sofa the headrest would start to peel. He also highlights another issue he reported with 
sinking seats. Mr H says the technician that looked into this also concluded it was due to 
wear and tear. He says this appears to be a common theme. 
Mr H says a sofa is meant to be sat on, so to claim this damage is due to wear and tear is 
unreasonable. He wants the policy to be honoured and for the scuff mark to be repaired. He 
says he isnt complaining about Helvetia declining his claim under the furniture warranty 
policy, but he is complaining about the accidental damage policy for the scuff mark.  
Mr H says Helvetia changed the exclusion it relied on from the colour change term, to later 
rely on a wear and tear exclusion. He maintains that this is ridiculous after just over a years 
use. Mr H asks that I reconsider my findings based on his further submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr H doesnt think its reasonable for his sofa to have sustained damage due 
to wear and tear in just over a year. Ive thought carefully about his comments. 
In my provisional decision I said Helvetia had explained its policy isnt a maintenance 
agreement, and it doesnt provide cover for defects or for issues around quality. The 
business referred to the manufacturing guarantee provided through the retailer. It says this provides recourse for such issues, which I think is fair. 
The policy Mr H has with Helvetia is to cover repairs for accidental damage and staining. I 
accept Mr H doesnt think the damage to his sofa was caused gradually by the effect of 
skin/hair oils on the leather. He thinks it was caused by the headrest being scuffed. But this 
isnt supported by the expert technician who found evidence of hair/skin oils in the area of 
the damage. This was identified using a test used commonly within the industry. The 
technicians findings are that the damage was the result of hair and or skin oils penetrating 
the leather cover on the headrest over time. 
In its submissions to our service Helvetia explains how damage caused in this way starts in 
a small area of flaking leather and gradually gets worse. I acknowledge Mr Hs comments 
that he doesnt think the flaking has got worse. And that hed expect more of the headrest to 
be affected. But Im more persuaded by the expert technicians findings that oils were found 
in the leather where the damage is located. Leather can be damaged in this way, and I think 
its reasonable to expect that this will occur in a small area to start with, such as the area Mr 
H reported. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think its been shown that the damage Mr H claimed for 
can be categorised as accidental under his policy terms. Rather this is something that has 
happened gradually over time due to wear and tear. Mr H may wish to refer to his retailer 
with respect to his concerns around quality. But I dont think Helvetia has treated him unfairly 
when relying on its policy terms and declining his claim for the reasons it gave. So, Im not 
persuaded that a change to my decision is warranted.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman