DRN-3705715
The complaint
Miss T complains that Everyday Lending Limited lent to her when she could not afford it. She 
says that Everyday Lending did not verify her financial situation properly. Miss T says that 
the cost of the loan was excruciating. 
What happened
Miss T applied for and was approved for one loan. It was to consolidate debt. Miss T says 
that the amount given to her did not consolidate all her debts. After the consolidation she still 
had other outstanding loans and had to service the Everyday Lending loan too, and she was 
not able to afford it.
Everyday Lending has explained that she was approved for a loan of £12,606 in 
November 2017. That loan was used to clear a loan and several credit cards. I have seen 
records which show that Everyday Lending paid those loans and cards off directly with 
cheques. No cash was forwarded to Miss T. 
The interest on top was going to be £8,334 and the total repayable was £20,940. The 
repayment was £349 each month for 60 months. 
Miss T had repaid £18,497 by May 2022, and likely due to have paid it off around this time  
October 2022. Miss T has sent me a recent credit file as it seems that the current balance is 
£526. Miss T has explained that since the loan was approved, she has never missed a 
payment but to achieve that she continually racked up further debts in order to continually 
break even.  
Everyday Lending has explained that it used Miss Ts income calculated from the payslip it 
saw and the ytd (Year to Date) figure. That came out to be just a few pence under £2,334 a 
month. It knew her mortgage was £406 a month. It reviewed two months of bank account 
statements  October and November 2017. It carried out a credit search and compiled a 
debt table which has been sent to us. 
Account notes from 2017 show us that Miss T had told Everyday Lending the monthly Credit 
Union payment was a £100 a month to savings  not another credit agreement. This 
information has been updated by Miss T recently to say that the £100 was a loan cost not a 
payment to a savings account. I come back to this later in the decision.  
Miss T was a homeowner with equity. She had committed to closing her credit cards once 
they were paid off. And a recent update from Miss T indicates that most were. 
Miss T has referred to the endless emails and contact she received where Everyday Lending 
tried to sell her additional loans or further extend her credit. She says this was an example of 
behaviour where Everyday Lending preyed on vulnerable people. 
Everyday Lending responded to her complaint with its final response letter (FRL) dated 
17 May 2022. It said it did not uphold her complaint. 
Everyday Lending said in the FRL that at the time of the application Miss Ts overdraft was 
not being used and the bank account was well managed. It said Miss Ts 
monthly financial commitments together with your general living expenses as 
detailed above, was calculated as £2,198.25 prior to the consolidation of any debt.. 
and it said that Miss T had a monthly disposable income of £327.55 after taking 
into account your consolidated loans and your Everyday Loans monthly repayments.
Everyday Lending said that the high interest rate was one which was contractually agreed 
before taking the loan. And it referred to the 14 day cooling off period which was built into the 
agreement. 
Everyday Lending said in its FRL that the calls and emails from the branch to Miss T were 
just to see if there was any further borrowing or help it could offer and said that it was open 
to Miss T to decline any further offers of credit. 
Miss T referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators 
looked at the complaint and thought that the loan ought not to have been approved. 
Our adjudicator did consider that the checks Everyday Lending carried out were 
proportionate but that the information it gathered was not applied correctly. If it had it would 
have realised that the disposable income figure it had calculated for Miss T (just over £145 
each month before the loan consolidation had taken place) was inaccurate. 
And our adjudicator thought that even after the debt consolidation, Miss T still had other debt 
commitments to pay alongside her Everyday Lending loan. So, our adjudicator thought that 
all combined her total credit repayments amounted to a significant proportion of her monthly 
income so there was a significant risk that she would not have been able to meet the 
commitments without having to borrow again.
Everyday Lending disagreed and said that there was no evidence that Miss Ts credit card 
balances had increased over and above what it already knew about in the lead up to the 
loan. And that she had capacity of over £5,000 on her existing credit cards. 
Everyday Lending pointed out that by consolidating some of the other credit commitments it 
would reduce her monthly repayments. And that its own research showed that Miss Ts bank 
statements showed no payday loans, no returned payments, and no missed payments from 
her credit check reports. So, there was no evidence she was struggling to pay before it 
offered her its loan. And so, it said shed be fine handling the lower monthly repayment sums 
after their loan had cleared some of her debt. 
I asked Miss T for some additional information recently which she has sent. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Miss T would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss T would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday Lending  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending  had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss T undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending  to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
This was a significant level of lending and repayable over five years. So, I would have 
expected Everyday Lending to have carried out a full financial review of her situation before 
approving the loan.
High interest ratesBefore I give my findings on the core of the complaint relating to affordability, the issue 
surrounding the expense of the loan is not one I have looked into. Each lender sets its rates 
commercially and that element is not one that the Financial Ombudsman Service interferes 
with. 
The additional emails from Everyday Lending 
Miss T in her original complaint about the emails to Everyday Lending added to her 
complaint the details surrounding the emails and/or calls she received from its 
representatives asking her about new loans or further lending. Miss T has described this as 
the coercion and intimidation. 
I have been sent account notes from Everyday Lending and I have seen copy emails 
received by Miss T. And I note that these were not very often  about once each six months. 
And I have seen no language in those emails which suggest coercion or intimidation. 
I do not know what Miss T had agreed with Everyday Lending as to how and when it could 
contact her (her privacy settings or her communication preferences) but it did not seem to 
contact her often enough to be intimidating. And on one occasion where she did engage and 
receive some quotes for additional lending Miss T refused to proceed. Theres no evidence 
of coercion there. 
I do not uphold this part of her complaint. 
Irresponsible lending 
I accept what Everyday Lending has said that there does not appear to be any evidence that 
between Miss T applying for the loan and obtaining the loan her credit card balances had 
increased a lot. I use this decision to correct that. I think that our adjudicator was saying that 
Miss T had a lot of credit card debt. 
However, having said that, I have looked at all the evidence and a good starting point is to 
consider the headline summary which Everyday Lending had obtained from its credit search 
results. That told it Miss T had 2 Live Loans and 10 Revolving Accounts which included 
credit cards. The summary says: 
Total Loan Balance Outstanding £12229.00
Total Revolving Balance Outstanding £13666.00
So, Miss T had £25,895 of debt (plus a mortgage on top), and Everyday Lending paid off 
£12,606 of that debt  reducing it to £13,289 - but then its own agreement added £20,940 to 
her debt load making a total new debt level of £34,229. I would need to factor in to this the 
scenario that if Miss T had kept her debt situation as it was, then her credit cards would have 
continued to have attracted interest and would have taken a long time to pay off if she had 
continued to pay the minimum repayment sum only. 
But even with this consideration in mind, the time at which this creditworthiness assessment 
for Miss T was being carried out, still I consider that such a large increase in her overall 
indebtedness cannot be ignored. And when dealing with these situations, trying to second 
guess how a person would have run their lives or what else Miss T may have done about her 
debt is something we will never know. So I have stated the facts as it was at the time 
Everyday Lending was assessing her for the loan.    
I have reviewed all the information Everyday Lending has provided, including careful analysis of Miss Ts bank account statements provided to it in 2017, and its income and 
expenditure analysis. 
Miss T had seven credit cards, three mail order accounts, a loan and a hire purchase 
agreement (HP), a current account which attracted a fee and some communications 
accounts which had zero balances. 
The debt table Everyday Lending created listed all her debts (outstanding balances) together 
with the monthly repayments due where it was a loan or the monthly minimum repayments 
due where it was credit card/mail order account. Using the figures in that debt table I have 
seen that excluding the mortgage, her repayment figure was £942 each month. Everyday 
Lending has noted that in its records.
After its proposed consolidation of the HP agreement, and five credit cards Miss Ts monthly 
repayment figure would reduce to £413.The new consolidation loan was £349 a month so 
that made the total £762. This new loan was for five years and so the consistency of that 
regular £349 over the 60 months was a big commitment. Pounds and pence calculations 
alone are not, in my view, enough in this case.  
It may look as if its calculations meant that Miss T was facing a composite monthly 
repayment figure which was approximately £180 a month less than it says she had been 
paying before its loan. But that did not account for the principal remaining on two of her 
credit cards which at minimum repayment would take a long time to repay.
One had a balance to pay off which was about £4,260 and the other was about £510. That 
remaining credit card balance of about £4,770 would have been costing her around £235 a 
month minimum (at a minimum payment rate of 5% and £167 if it was a 3.5% rate). And I 
realise that those minimum payment figures were added  into the debt table calculations. 
But Miss T still needed to be able to paydown the capital. And I do not think that was 
factored into the repayments. Credit cards are very different to loans when it comes to 
repayments as consistently repaying at the minimum repayment amount is a long and 
difficult way to pay a card down, as the interest added the following month absorbs a large 
portion of the minimum payment just made by the card holder. 
So, with an additional £180 released for Miss T each month, in theory it may have been put 
towards the capital reduction of the credit cards. But that is not a large improvement. 
And the new monthly figure of £762 to cover off the Everyday Lending loan and her other 
commitments (excluding the mortgage) came to about 32% of her net monthly income which 
still was high. 
Added to which, Everyday Lending has shown from its records that 
- it knew Miss Ts creditor repayments on its Credit Agreements Tab was just under  
£944 a month. And with an income of £2,334 that was around 40%. So, I think it 
knew from the start Miss T was overindebted. 
- It has submitted to us that there were no signs of Miss T struggling with her 
repayments at the time. But my view is that if any customer approaches a lender 
wanting to consolidate debts then the starting point is just that  he or she is finding it 
difficult to cope and, usually in my view, is seeking a way to alleviate the high debt 
costs. 
- Id consider that 40% of Miss Ts net monthly income (before her mortgage) was a high percentage of her income going on the existing debt. And that alone likely ought 
to have acted as an alert to Everyday Lending. 
- it used its usual formula to calculate her living expenses of £848.27 a month which 
I dont think was an accurate way to assess Miss Ts finances especially as it had 
sight of her bank statements 
- no cash was being lent to Miss T  the whole £12,606 was being used to pay off 
other debtors and so it knew that the figures had to be accurate and compelling for 
the consolidation plan to be an effective help to Miss T. And I dont think that they 
were. 
I said in the what happened section that a £100 a month payment had been picked up on 
and an Everyday Lending account note from 2017 said that Miss T had told it the monthly 
Credit Union payment was a £100 a month to savings  not another credit agreement. 
Ive checked this with Miss T and she has sent me an application form dated April 2017 to 
that Credit Union for a loan. Miss T has said that the loan for £1,500 was granted and she 
was paying £100 a month towards it. So it seems the account note was wrong and I am now 
satisfied that Miss T did not have any savings with a Credit Union. She has confirmed she 
had no other savings at the time. And adding in this additional cost each month, her monthly 
debt repayments were higher than I have outlined earlier in this decision.  
Miss T has said that most of her credit cards closed after they were paid off with this 
Everyday Lending loan. 
My conclusion is, especially with the additional £100 a month cost to the Credit Union loan, 
Miss T was not able to sustainably afford this loan from Everyday Lending. The overall 
increase in her indebtedness was significant. 
I dont consider that a creditworthiness assessment ought to ignore the holistic picture which 
was the debt was restructured and increased overall and spread out over five years to 
appear affordable  but I dont think it was. 
I uphold the irresponsible lending part of Miss Ts complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
treat any payments made by Miss T in respect of this loan as payments towards the 
capital amount of £12,606
If Miss T has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
her with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending can offset what the refund 
may provide against the outstanding sum. But I think that Miss T is on the cusp of paying 
this loan off and so this part may be academic. If necessary, Everyday Lending should 
come to a reasonable repayment plan with Miss T if needed.
remove any adverse payment information about the loan from Miss Ts credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part and I direct that Everyday 
Lending Limited does as I have directed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman