DRN-4386568
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC carried out a hard credit search when he 
opened a new account. He says he wasnt told this would happen and it affected his credit 
score.
What happened
Mr M says that he wasnt told that a hard credit search would be done when he opened a 
new account. However, he checked his credit score after opening the account and it had 
dropped significantly. He says this has caused him a lot of stress and he wants 
compensation. 
Barclays said that a hard credit check is undertaken when a customer opens a new account, 
and that Mr M would have been advised of this in the application process. It said the 
information recorded with the credit reference agencies was factual and so it wouldnt be 
removed.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the credit search was undertaken in 
line with industry standards and noted that the account terms and conditions state that 
information will be shared with the credit reference agencies. He said that he was unable to 
hold Barclays responsible for the amount Mr Ms credit score dropped due to the account 
application process.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why this situation has upset Mr M and I am sorry to hear of the stress he 
has been caused. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
Barclays had done something wrong or treated Mr M unfairly.
Mr M applied for a new account with Barclays. It has explained that it is regular business 
practice to complete a credit check when a new account is opened. I understand that this 
wasnt Mr Ms first account but as he was opening a new product, I cannot find that Barclays 
was wrong to follow its usual process and carry out the credit search. 
Barclays has said that Mr M would have been told in the application process that a credit 
search would be carried out. Mr M said he wasnt told this. I cannot say what Mr M was told 
or whether there was a misunderstanding about this. But the account terms and conditions 
make it clear that information will be shared with the credit reference agencies and as 
Barclays followed its usual process by carrying out the search as part of the application 
process, I do not find I can say it has done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly.
Mr M has noted the amount by which is credit score dropped. Barclays doesnt determine 
the impact its reporting of a credit search will have on a credit score and Mr Ms credit score 
will be affected by many different factors. As Barclays reported accurate information, that is 
that a credit search was undertaken, I do not find I can require it to remove this from Mr Ms 
credit report.
While I know this will be disappointing for Mr M and I am sorry that he has been caused so 
much stress through this process, I do not find that Barclays has done anything wrong and 
so I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman