DRN-4124593
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision not to honour a 
premium quoted for a life insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. In summary Aviva sent Mrs H a 
quote illustration on 27 August 2021. It was valid until 25 September 2021, but Aviva didnt 
receive Mrs Hs acceptance until 11 October 2021. By this time the quote had expired so 
Aviva prepared a new quote which Mrs H accepted. Unfortunately, Mrs Hs date of birth had 
been inputted incorrectly on the application form. She realised the mistake in February 2022 
and notified Aviva. It adjusted the premium.
Mrs H complained. She wanted Aviva to honour the original premium. Aviva didnt agree to 
do so but recognised it could have notified Mrs H of the error and advised Mrs H accordingly. 
It offered £200 in compensation. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs H appealed.
Mrs H is represented by her financial adviser, but for simplicity I shall just refer to Mrs H.
I apologise for the time taken to arrive at this stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision, but I agree with the conclusion 
reached by the investigator. This is simply because the quote that Aviva originally offered, 
based on Mrs Hs correct date of birth, was only valid for 30 days. There is nothing inherently 
unfair about that and it was clear from the illustration itself. 
A new application was then made producing a new illustration. This was for a business life 
insurance option policy. Unfortunately, an error in the date of birth meant this illustration 
needed to be amended and ultimately led to a greater premium than that in the original 
illustration. Aviva explained why this was  due to a change in rate change and Mrs H 
passing a half birthday. Mrs H feels that Aviva should honour the original premium, but it 
wasnt obliged to do so. I note that it did offer Mrs H a discount, which I find was fair.
However, Aviva considered the error could have been corrected earlier, and it could have 
told Mrs Hs adviser to go into the online portal and correct the date of birth. By this time the 
August quote had expired, but Aviva offered compensation because of the frustration that 
would have been felt. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I recognise that Aviva told Mrs Hs representative that underwriting terms would be carried 
over, but that was in respect of a different product. The terms valid on the original application 
(Relevant Life Insurance) were only valid for that product and application. I dont find that 
Aviva erred in producing a new illustration based on the information given. I havent 
disregarded Mrs Hs representatives submission that in respect of another application Aviva 
honoured an original illustration. But this complaint concerns Mrs H, and Im considering only 
Avivas actions in relation to her. For the reasons explained, I dont find that Aviva treated 
her unfairly.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited made an offer to pay £200 in compensation and I find that 
the offer was fair in all the circumstances. I make no further award or direction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman