DRN-4146268
The complaint
Mr V complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited failed to offer them a new fixed 
interest rate on their mortgage. The mortgage was in joint names with his late wife  sadly, 
she has recently passed away. And so both the mortgage and the complaint are now in Mr 
V's sole name.
What happened
Mr V and his late wife took out a mortgage with Kensington in 2005. They borrowed just over 
£150,000 on an interest only basis. The mortgage offer said that interest would be charged 
at Kensingtons standard variable rate (SVR) plus 2.5% throughout the term. There was a 
discount of 2% until November 2005, but an early repayment charge (ERC) until 2008.
The mortgage terms and conditions say that the SVR will never be less than 1% above, and 
more than 3% above, the LIBOR rate. In practice, the SVR has remained 3% above LIBOR 
 which means that Mr and Mrs V were paying LIBOR plus 5.5%, including the 2.5% 
premium on the SVR set out in their mortgage offer.
In October 2021, Kensington wrote to Mr and Mrs V. It said it would offer to switch them to a 
lower interest rate as part of an industry initiative to reduce the variable rates being paid by 
customers like you. It said it would offer to switch them to a variable rate linked to the 
Kensington Standard Rate (KSR)  rather than their existing rate linked to the SVR. And it 
said Mr and Mrs V had to accept this offer by 7 December 2021 or it would no longer be 
available. It said this was the only new rate available to Mr and Mrs V, and their only other 
options were to remain on their existing rate or move to another lender. It said this was part 
of its mortgage prisoner scheme to offer new interest rates to mortgage prisoners.
Shortly afterwards, Mr and Mrs V contacted Kensington to say they were mortgage 
prisoners and hadnt been treated fairly. They said that they had been overcharged interest 
on their mortgage throughout. 
Mr and Mrs V said that since early on in the mortgage they had run their own business, but 
had been unable to continue because of financial and health concerns. Mr V then took up 
another self-employed role. More recently, Mr V gave up work to care for Mrs V. Mr and Mrs 
V said that because of this and because of their ages, they have been unable to move to 
another lender  even though they have an excellent payment record.
Mr and Mrs V said theyd wanted Kensington to offer them a new fixed or discounted rate, 
but it never had. Theyd asked for a new rate when the ERC ended in 2008, but were told 
there was nothing available to them.
As a result, Mr and Mrs V said they felt trapped and had been paying a higher rate than was 
fair. They said other lenders offered new rates to existing customers, and they did not see 
why Kensington could not do so. Kensington offered better rates to new customers, but not 
to them.
Mr and Mrs V said this was not fair and resulted in them having paid more than they needed 
to for many years. They said they had had a repayment mortgage before taking this one out, 
but moved to interest only because of financial difficulties at the time. They had since been 
unable to switch back to repayment terms. Had Kensington reduced their monthly payments, 
they would have been able to overpay to reduce the capital balance.
Kensington said Mr and Mrs V had accepted its offer of a new rate in October 2021, and 
their payments had reduced as a result. Before that, it was unable to offer them a new rate. 
Their mortgage had operated on the interest rate set out in the offer and terms and 
conditions, and so Kensington didnt think it had acted unfairly.
In March 2022, Kensington transferred the mortgage to a new lender.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She said there was no evidence 
Mr and Mrs V had asked for a new interest rate within the last six years, other than in 
response to Kensingtons letter in October 2021. And so she didnt think it was unfair that it 
hadnt offered a rate to them. Mr V didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
Having considered everything, I was minded to agree with our investigator that Kensington 
had not acted unfairly before October 2021. But I thought there was more it could have done 
when it offered Mr and Mrs V a rate at that time. In order to allow the parties a chance to 
comment on my thinking before I make a final decision, I issued a provisional decision first.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Im very sorry to hear that Mrs V passed away a few months ago, and I hope that Mr 
V will accept my condolences on his loss.
Time limits
Ill start by setting out what I can and cant consider as part of this complaint. Our 
investigator said that we could only look at the fairness of what Kensington did  or 
didnt do  in the six years leading up to when Mr and Mrs V first complained in late 
2021.
I agree about that. The Financial Ombudsman Service has strict rules setting out 
time limits for bringing complaints. The rules say that a complaint must be made 
within six years of the date of the event complained of, or  if it gives more time  
within three years of when the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have known 
of cause for complaint.
This complaint is not about a single event, its about an ongoing omission  what Mr 
V sees as the ongoing failure, unfairly, of Kensington to offer him and Mrs V a new 
rate between 2008 and 2021. Theres therefore no single date from which the time 
limit runs.
In cases like this, therefore, we can consider whether it was fair that Kensington 
didnt offer a rate for six years leading up to when the complaint was made. But any 
failure before that is out of time on the first part of the rule.
I think its also out of time on the second part of the rule too. Mr and Mrs V knew in 
2008 that their initial discount had ended, that they wanted a new interest rate, and 
that Kensington wouldnt give them one. If they were unhappy about that, at any point between then and 2021, they could have complained about it. Im satisfied they 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, of cause for complaint that Kensington 
hadnt offered them a new rate.
There are no exceptional circumstances which explain why Mr and Mrs V didnt 
complain any sooner, and no evidence that they actually did complain. And 
Kensington doesnt consent to us considering that part of the complaint which is out 
of time (as it has the right to do). So that means we can only consider the fairness of 
what Kensington did, or didnt do, in the six years leading up to Mr and Mrs Vs 
complaint. As the first time they expressed dissatisfaction was on 25 October 2021, 
we can only consider matters from 26 October 2015 onwards.
Did Kensington act fairly in not offering Mr and Mrs V a new interest rate between 
October 2015 and October 2021?
The terms of Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage say that interest will be charged throughout 
the term at a premium above the SVR (less an initial discount which ended in 2005).
There is nothing in their mortgage offer or terms and conditions which obliges 
Kensington to change the interest rate on their mortgage, or offer them a new rate, at 
any time.
That means that Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage has operated as it should have done, and 
operated in line with the terms and conditions they agreed to when they took it out.
I recognise that its fairly common in the mortgage market for lenders to offer existing 
customers new preferential interest rates at intervals during the mortgage. And that 
its common for buyers to shop around  either by taking a new rate with their 
existing lender, or by moving to a new lender.
I accept that, in this case, it wasnt realistically possible for Mr and Mrs V to move to 
another lender. They have an interest only mortgage, they were older borrowers, and 
their finances were such that its not likely theyd have passed another lenders 
affordability criteria.
That means their only way of getting a new rate was if Kensington offered them one. 
However, while  as Ive said  its common for lenders to do that, not all lenders do 
make new rates available to existing customers. And theres no rule  either in law, 
or in mortgage regulation  that says a lender has to do so.
Prior to 2017, Kensington did not make new rates available to any of its customers. It 
was not required to do so. Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage continued to operate on its 
existing terms and conditions, as theyd been told it would. And they were in the 
same situation as all other Kensington customers. In those circumstances, I dont 
think it was unfair that Kensington didnt make new rates available to Mr and Mrs V.
In 2017, Kensington did start to make new interest rates available to some existing 
customers. As I say, it wasnt obliged to do so  but from 2017, it chose to do so.
Where a lender chooses to make new interest rates available, it should treat any 
application for a new rate fairly. Its not unreasonable to have eligibility criteria  
meaning that not all customers get the same rate, and even that some customers are 
not eligible for rates at all  but this should be done on a fair basis.
If Mr and Mrs V had asked Kensington for a new rate from 2017 onwards, when it had rates available, Kensington would have needed to have given fair consideration 
to that application.
However, at no time did Mr and Mrs V ask for a new rate. Theres no evidence of an 
application, or a request for a new rate, in Kensingtons records. And Mr and Mrs V 
havent suggested they applied either. The first time they contacted Kensington about 
new rates  after 2008  was when it wrote to them in October 2021.
So while Kensington would have had to consider any application Mr and Mrs V made 
fairly, if they made one, the fact is that they didnt. So there was nothing for 
Kensington to consider. Kensington was under no obligation to contact Mr and Mrs V 
and invite them to apply for a rate. I dont therefore think that I can find that 
Kensington acted unfairly before October 2021.
Should the October 2021 letter have offered a wider range of rates?
Ive said that theres no obligation on a lender to offer new interest rates to existing 
customers. And, if it chooses to do so, no obligation to pro-actively offer rates, or 
invite customers to apply  though it should consider any application that is made 
fairly.
So Kensington didnt have to  as a matter of law or regulation  invite Mr and Mrs V 
to take a new rate on their mortgage. And had it continued not to do so, its unlikely I 
would have found that to be unfair.
However, Kensington did offer Mr and Mrs V a new interest rate, even though they 
hadnt asked for one, in October 2021. And so I need to think about whether that was 
a fair offer.
As I say, there was no contractual or regulatory obligation on Kensington to make 
that offer. It was Kensingtons choice to do so. But that choice should be exercised 
fairly. In other words, Kensington did not have to offer a rate  but having chosen to 
do so, it should have been a fair offer.
In thinking about this, Ive taken account of the rules of mortgage regulation, known 
as MCOB. MCOB 11.8.1 E says:
When a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan or vary the terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or 
home purchase plan with the existing mortgage lender or home 
purchase provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan with a new mortgage lender or home purchase provider;
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not 
(for example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) 
take advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any 
less favourably than it would treat other customers with similar 
characteristics. To do so may be relied on as tending to show 
contravention of Principle 6 (Customers interests).
Principle 6 saysA firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
In MCOB 11.8.1 E, the suffix E means that this is an evidential provision, not a rule. 
Conduct of the sort set out in the provision may tend to show unfairness  but equally 
it may not, depending on the individual circumstances.
I think this is a relevant consideration in this situation. In October 2021, Kensington 
did make new fixed rates available to some customers (on application). It wouldnt 
have offered one to Mr and Mrs V had they asked, but it did offer Mr and Mrs V a 
variable rate under its mortgage prisoner scheme. This variable rate was less 
favourable than the fixed rates available to other customers.
I think, acting fairly, Kensington ought to have considered whether MCOB 11.8.1 E 
was relevant to Mr and Mrs Vs situation. It had reason to know they were unlikely to 
be able to move their mortgage elsewhere  indeed, it had concluded that by virtue of 
their inclusion in the mortgage prisoner scheme. In light of that, it ought then to 
have gone on to consider whether it was offering them less favourable rates than 
would have been available to other customers with similar characteristics.
I understand Kensingtons general eligibility criteria for new fixed interest rates are 
that the mortgage must have an acceptable loan to value, not have been in recent 
arrears or have other sums owing, the customer is not bankrupt or similar, and that 
the mortgage was taken out with Kensington (rather than having been moved from 
another lender) since 2010.
Im not aware of any reason why Mr and Mrs V didnt meet these criteria  other than 
the one about the date their mortgage was originally taken out.
Kensington has explained that its business model relies on securitisation. This is a 
relatively common model in the mortgage industry. In essence, once it has lent a 
mortgage and is entitled to receive the repayments, Kensington sells the beneficial 
interest (the benefit of the repayments) to a third party in order to fund further lending 
to other customers. Loans are not securitised individually, but packaged into groups 
called special purpose vehicles.
Under this model, Kensington remains the owner of the mortgage, remains the lender 
of record, and continues to be the firm that the borrower deals with. But once it has 
collected the payments, it passes the benefit of them on to the investor which bought 
the vehicle including that loan.
Kensington has explained that under the terms of its agreements with the investors 
which bought the securitisation vehicles, it cannot make changes to existing 
mortgages  such as offering new interest rates. It may be able to offer new rates 
when securitisations expire and are re-financed onto terms that do allow variations to 
the mortgages.
And it may be able to offer a new rate if a loan meets the current criteria that 
investors will accept as part of a securitisation vehicle  which explains the criteria 
around passing current requirements even on loans that were taken out some time 
before. It can offer a rate if it can extract a loan from a securitisation and then re-
securitise it with a new interest rate  but only if the loan would be acceptable to a 
new securitisation vehicle. Loans taken out before 2010, and loans taken out which, 
at the time, did not meet regulatory requirements now in place do not meet that 
standard.Such customers include those whose loans were underwritten based on the 
standards which applied before the financial crisis of 2007/8  including customers 
who self-certified their income, who did not have to show that they had a repayment 
strategy for an interest only mortgage, and so on.
Because these customers cannot be re-securitised, they are not eligible for a new 
fixed interest rate. And that included Mr and Mrs V.
However, Im not persuaded thats a fair basis on which to refuse Mr and Mrs V a 
new rate in 2021, many years after their mortgage was taken out.
In saying that, Ive taken into account MCOB 11.8.1 E, which Ive quoted above. In 
my view, whats relevant for the purposes of the comparison envisaged by MCOB 
11.8.1 E are Mr and Mrs Vs characteristics at the time of the rate offer in 2021  not 
their characteristics as they were many years earlier.
An assessment of the fairness of Mr and Mrs Vs treatment in comparison to the 
treatment of other borrowers is to be based on their situation at the time of the 
treatment. I understand Kensington considers the circumstances in which the 
mortgage was taken out to be relevant to its business model of securitisation. That 
may well be the case  but, as I explain below, thats not relevant to the question of 
whether it treated Mr and Mrs V fairly in their particular circumstances.
The provision says that where a borrower either cant vary their mortgage with an 
existing lender, or cant move their mortgage to another lender, it may be unfair for 
their existing lender to treat them less favourably (for example, by offering less 
favourable interest rates) than it would treat other customers with similar 
characteristics.
In my view, this provision is aimed at the unfairness that might result where a 
borrower is unable to move their mortgage and shop around for a better deal  
having no choice but to remain with their existing lender, and being treated less 
favourably than other customers who are otherwise similar to them.
Mr and Mrs V were unable to move elsewhere  as Kensington itself accepted at the 
time. That brings them within the ambit of MCOB 11.8.1 E.
Kensington would offer fixed rates to other customers in October 2021  but it only 
offered Mr and Mrs V a higher variable rate. This is because Mr and Mrs V didnt 
qualify for a lower fixed rate, but only because of when their mortgage was taken out.
Im not persuaded  taking into account MCOB 11.8.1 E  that this was fair. MCOB 
11.8.1 E refers to the treatment of borrowers with similar characteristics. In my view, 
whats relevant to this exercise is Mr and Mrs Vs characteristics at the time 
Kensington considered offering them a rate  not their characteristics as they might 
have been many years earlier when the mortgage was taken out.
Im not persuaded the date their loan was taken out, or the nature of the mortgage 
they applied for, was any longer relevant at the time they made their application. 
What was relevant were their circumstances at the time of the offer of a rate. In my 
view, it is fair and reasonable to regard their current circumstances as the 
characteristics which are relevant for the purposes of the comparison in MCOB 
11.8.1 E, and therefore fair and reasonable to consider whether Mr and Mrs V were 
treated less favourably than other customers to whom they were similar at that time.At this time, other customers whose mortgages were taken out after 2010 but 
otherwise had the same characteristics as Mr and Mrs V would have been offered a 
fixed rate on application. Although Mr and Mrs V didnt make such an application, 
had they done so Kensington would have refused them a fixed rate because of when 
their mortgage was taken out.
Kensington recognised that Mr and Mrs V were unable to move their mortgage 
elsewhere. In light of that, it decided that it would offer them a new interest rate lower 
than the reversion rate they were currently paying. This was a fair and reasonable 
thing to do. But having made the decision to offer a rate, Kensington  knowing Mr 
and Mrs V were unable to move elsewhere to obtain a lower rate  ought fairly in my 
view to have offered them a rate no less favourable than it would have offered other 
customers with similar characteristics. But it didnt do that  it offered them a variable 
rate, not a fixed rate  and a rate which was more expensive than the fixed rates it 
would have offered to those other customers.
It follows that Mr and Mrs V were treated differently  less favourably, by being 
offered less favourable interest rates  than other customers with similar 
characteristics to them. They were unable to move their mortgage to a new lender or 
shop around for a better deal; they had no option but to remain with Kensington 
regardless of what decisions it made. It was fair that Kensington decided to assist 
them by offering a rate  but, having decided to do so, it was not fair that the rate 
offered was less favourable than would have been offered to other similar customers.
When it replies to this provisional decision, Kensington should tell me what fixed 
rates it had available in October 2021 for existing customers whose mortgages were 
taken after 2010, and it should tell me what loan to value band it considered Mr and 
Mrs Vs mortgage was in at that time. I will then select what I consider to be the 
appropriate rate Kensington should have offered Mr and Mrs V. 
Kensington should then re-work Mr Vs mortgage as if that rate had been offered in 
October 2021 and implemented from December 2021. This will result in Mr and Mrs 
V, and more recently Mr V, having made overpayment since then. Kensington should 
offer Mr V the choice of having the overpayments refunded to him, or having them 
used to reduce the mortgage balance as if he had made capital overpayments.
Finally, Im satisfied that having to have made higher payments than they ought fairly 
to have done would have caused Mr and Mrs V, and later Mr V, distress and 
inconvenience. I think £350 compensation is fair for that.
The responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.
Mr V didnt agree that it was fair that, once they were existing customers, Kensington did not 
offer him and Mrs V a new fixed rate. He said that Kensington knew they couldnt get a 
better rate elsewhere and so was deliberately taking advantage of them because they were 
trapped. He said that it was only fair that if Kensington attracted new customers with 
preferential rates, it should have offered them to existing customers too  as is standard 
practice in the mortgage industry. And if it didnt do so, that should have been made clear 
from the start. Kensington would have known this was its policy. 
Mr V said that the reason he and Mrs V hadnt asked about a new rate before 2021 was that 
they had asked, years before, and been told there was nothing available to them  so they 
didnt see any point in keeping asking. They didnt know anything was wrong until they learned they were mortgage prisoners and complained. And it isnt fair to hold against them 
that they relied on what Kensington told them.
As a result, Mr V said he didnt think he and Mrs V had been treated fairly throughout the 
time since their initial fixed rate ended in 2008.
Kensington didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. In particular, it didnt agree that 
MCOB 11.8.1 E was relevant or resulted in unfairness in this case. It said it had designed a 
product specifically for mortgage prisoners such as Mr and Mrs V  mortgage prisoners 
being a specific cohort of borrowers with particular characteristics. Kensington was following 
the regulators approach of identifying cohorts of borrowers and offering products suitable to 
that cohort. It also said it designed the mortgage prisoner rate to ensure that customers 
would not be worse off than they were on their existing arrangements if they accepted it, but 
to avoid locking customers in to fixed rates with early repayment charges or the risk of an 
increase in payments at the end of a fixed rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional decision, 
but I havent changed my mind about the fair way to resolve this complaint.
I understand Mr Vs frustration that a new interest rate wasnt available to him and Mrs V 
when their old interest rate came to an end. But, as Ive said, there was no obligation on 
Kensington to make new interest rates available to existing customers, and before 2017 it 
didnt do so  many other lenders do offer new rates to existing customers, but some dont 
and theyre not required to. Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage offer said that they would move on to 
the reversion rate once their initial fixed rate came to an end  thats what happened, and so 
their mortgage was operating as it should have done. 
However, once Kensington did start to make new rates available to existing customers after 
2017, it was required to treat all its customers fairly in deciding what rates to make available 
to them. It didnt have to pro-actively tell customers it was now offering rates  but where it 
did so, or where it invited them to take a new rate, it should have done so fairly.
Mr and Mrs V didnt ask for a new rate, so there was no application for Kensington to 
consider  and so it didnt act unfairly in not offering them a new rate.
But in October 2021, even though they hadnt applied, it decided to offer them a new rate. 
And having made that decision, it needed to make sure that what it offered was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive set out MCOB 11.8.1 E above. I dont agree with Kensington that its not relevant to this 
case. Kensington says it doesnt apply because Mr and Mrs V were mortgage prisoners  
thats why it offered them its mortgage prisoner rate  and as such they didnt share 
characteristics with other borrowers who werent mortgage prisoners and therefore eligible 
for fixed rates.
Mortgage prisoner isnt a regulatory term. But the commonly accepted definition is a 
borrower who cant switch their mortgage elsewhere despite being up to date with their 
payments.This is one of the requirements in MCOB 11.8.1  where a customer is unable to (1) enter 
into a new regulated mortgage contract or vary the terms of an existing regulated 
mortgage contract with the existing mortgage lender; or (2) enter into a new regulated 
mortgage contract with a new mortgage lender. 
I therefore dont agree with Kensington that in treating Mr and Mrs V as mortgage 
prisoners, that means MCOB 11.8.1 E doesnt apply  I think borrowers in that situation are 
who MCOB 11.8.1 E is very clearly aimed at.
I also dont agree that being a mortgage prisoner means that, of itself, Mr and Mrs V didnt 
have similar characteristics to other customers who were not mortgage prisoners. In my 
view, the purpose of MCOB 11.8.1 E is to ensure that lenders dont treat borrowers who are 
unable to shop around less favourably than other borrowers who can move but are 
otherwise similar. I dont think the provision can be read in any other way  if simply being a 
mortgage prisoner of itself was a characteristic of difference, that would mean MCOB 
11.8.1 E could never apply and would be redundant. I dont think that was the intention.
Rather, I think that what fair treatment taking account of MCOB 11.8.1 E required was that 
Kensington should first have assessed whether Mr and Mrs V were unable to switch their 
mortgage. If they were, it should then consider whether it was treating them less favourably 
than other borrowers who were able to switch but otherwise had similar characteristics. In 
certain circumstances, if that is the case, it may amount to unfair treatment contrary to 
Principle 6. And Im satisfied that is the case here  because without that consideration, Mr 
and Mrs V were treated less favourably than other borrowers who could switch but were 
otherwise similar to them.  I think MCOB 11.8.1 E is aimed at ensuring that borrowers unable 
to shop around are not treated less favourably, and in my view thats not what Kensington 
did here.
Kensington has pointed to some of the potential drawbacks of a fixed rate. There are 
potential downsides  but there are downsides with variable rates too. Kensington does not 
give advice, and it would be for Mr and Mrs V to decide what sort of rate is most appropriate 
for them  just as any other customer would do.
Im therefore still satisfied that when Kensington decided to invite Mr and Mrs V to take a 
new mortgage rate, it should  acting fairly  have noted that they were unable to move their 
mortgage elsewhere and ensured it offered them a rate no less favourable than it would 
have offered to borrowers who were able to switch, but to whom they were otherwise similar. 
That may have included giving Mr and Mrs V the option of a variable rate  but it should 
fairly and reasonably also have included rates equivalent to the fixed rates it offered to 
similar customers who were not unable to move elsewhere. 
Putting things right
Its therefore fair and reasonable that Kensington puts Mr V back in the position he would 
have been in had it offered a rate no less favourable than it would have offered other, 
similar, customers in October 2021.
Kensington has provided me a list of the rates it had available at that time. Using a house 
price index, I have estimated the loan to value as being below 50%. This means Mr and 
Mrs V would have been eligible for a rate in the up to 70% band. I note that at this time there 
were around 40 months left of the mortgage term, and therefore a three year fixed rate 
(covering 36 of those 40 months) is likely to have been what Mr and Mrs V would have 
chosen, given the option. This is a fixed rate of 3.28%.
Kensington should therefore rework the mortgage as if that rate had been in place from 21 December 2021, as was the case with the variable rate it actually gave Mr and Mrs V. 
That means Mr V will have made overpayments in the meantime, and Kensington should 
give Mr V the choice of having those overpayments refunded to him, or used to reduce the 
mortgage balance month by month.
Finally, Im still satisfied that £350 is fair compensation in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:
Re-work Mr Vs mortgage so that it is as if a fixed rate of 3.28% had been in place for 
three years from 21 December 2021;
Give Mr V the choice of either:
oHaving the resulting overpayments between 21 December 2021 and now 
refunded to him, adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date 
of each payment to date of refund; or
oHaving the resulting overpayments used as an overpayment each month, with 
the balance  and interest charged as a result  reduced in subsequent 
months.
Write to Mr V explaining the changes it has made to his mortgage account and the 
monthly payment he will need to make at the fixed rate from now until the expiry of 
the rate, and the variable rate he will revert to thereafter;
Pay Mr V £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*If Mr V selects this option, Kensington may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award, as required by HMRC. But it should tell Mr V what it has deducted so he can reclaim the tax if 
he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman