DRN-2821819
The complaint
Mr W complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr Ws step father applied for a motor insurance policy on his behalf with Haven, and did so 
through a price comparison website. When Mr W was involved in an accident, he tried to 
make a claim on his policy. 
Haven said, when asked his date of birth, Mr W answered the question incorrectly in his 
application, making him older than he was. It requested further documents from Mr W. The 
policy was subsequently cancelled because he didnt supply the documents within the seven 
days Haven allowed. Mr Ws step father explained that these had been provided previously 
to Havens agents. But Haven didnt reinstate the policy. It considered the incorrect date of 
birth to be a reckless misrepresentation, which it said entitled it to cancel his policy without 
refunding the premium hed already paid, decline his claim and record the cancellation on 
internal and external databases.
Mr Ws step father said he had entered his other sons year of birth and said it was a 
genuine mistake. He thought Havens decision was harsh. Mr W and his step father want the 
cancellation removed from the insurance databases so Mr W doesnt have to declare it when 
applying for insurance in the future.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was deliberate 
or reckless, and thought it was careless.
Our investigator said Haven should reinstate the policy, reconsider Mr Ws claim and settle it 
proportionately, and remove any adverse records regarding Mr W from any insurance 
databases. It should also pay him £150 for the distress it caused him.
Haven doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.       
It says:
the responsibility rests with Mr W to ensure the information is correct at quote stage 
and in the policy documentation, even if another person applied for the policy on his 
behalf.
Mr Ws attitude to the misrepresentation when questioned by the claims handler, 
further shows he didnt care if he provided incorrect information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven cancelled Mr Ws policy after giving him seven days to supply additional documents 
to confirm his date of birth. But I dont think it was reasonable to do so after such short 
notice, especially considering they had previously been provided to agents acting on 
Havens behalf. It also felt the misrepresentation meant it could cancel his policy, but I dont 
agree.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Haven thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because 
his date of birth was incorrectly stated in his application, and he also didnt ensure it was 
correct when he received his policy documents.
Ive looked at the question asked on the application form and Im satisfied it was clear and 
Mr Ws step father entered his date of birth incorrectly. I understand his step father says it 
was a genuine error. But Ive also looked at the policy documentation that was sent to Mr W 
and I think his date of birth was stated clearly here, and he had a responsibility to ensure the 
information was correct but didnt. As such, I think Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
Haven has said it would have charged a higher premium if given the correct information 
about Mr Ws date of birth. So, Im satisfied Mr Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Haven says Mr Ws misrepresentation was reckless because the responsibility rests with him 
to check his information was correct. It felt his response when questioned, showed he didnt 
care if he gave them inaccurate information, but Im not persuaded.
A misrepresentation is considered reckless or deliberate if the consumer:
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether 
it was untrue or misleading; and 
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
I dont agree that Mr Ws misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. This is because, Ive 
read what Haven says Mr W said when asked why his date of birth was incorrect. And while 
I think it may have been impolite, I dont think it means he didnt care if he gave incorrect 
information.
 Mr Ws step father explained that he had accidently entered his other sons birth year.        
He provided evidence to support what he said. So, Im satisfied this information was entered 
accidently. 
I agree it was Mr Ws responsibility to ensure the information was correct when he received 
his policy documentation, but Im not persuaded he didnt inform Haven of the error because 
he didnt care whether it had accurate information.
As Im satisfied Mr Ws misrepresentation should be treated as careless, not reckless or 
deliberate, Ive looked at the actions Haven can take in accordance with CIDRA. As I 
mentioned previously, Haven would still have covered Mr W, but it would have charged him 
a higher premium if it had the correct information. In such circumstances, CIDRA says an 
insurer may proportionately reduce the amount paid on a claim. So, I dont think Haven 
acted fairly by cancelling his policy and not paying his claim. 
Putting things right
In light of all this, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint is for Haven to 
consider his claim. If the claim is valid, settle the claim proportionately based on the 
proportion of premium Mr W paid compared to what he should have paid. It should treat the 
cancellation as though it were instigated by Mr W and so remove the cancellation markers 
from any internal or external databases.
Our investigator thought Haven should also compensate Mr W £150 for the distress this has 
caused him. Havens decision has made it difficult for Mr W to obtain insurance and I think 
this would have been upsetting to him. So, I agree with what the investigator said, and I think 
this is fair compensation in all the circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to reconsider Mr Ws claim, and if it is valid, to pay the claim 
proportionately. It should remove the cancellation markers from any internal or external 
databases. It should also pay Mr W £150 in compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman