DRN-2399034
The complaint
Mr N complains that TSB Bank plc blocked a payment into his pension fund account which 
caused him to miss out on claiming tax relief.
What happened
On 2 April 2020 Mr N tried to make an online payment of £7,000 from his account with TSB 
to his pension provider, A. It was part of a lump sum, of £37,000, he wanted to pay into his 
pension. He said in order to claim tax relief for the tax year the deadline for the payment was 
5 April, a Sunday, but that funds had to be cleared by the Friday before it, 3 April. Mr N said 
£7,000 was available in his account but TSB blocked the payment and in the explanatory 
note it asked Mr N to contact the bank. 
Mr N tried to call TSB but was unable to get through. He said he had no other means of 
communicating with the bank. He raised a complaint on 4 April.
In its final decision TSB said the block on the payment was in line with its procedures but it 
accepted that it failed to send a text to Mr N when the block was lifted the next day. It paid 
Mr N £50 compensation and £6 for call costs.
Mr N wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. He said if hed known the 
block had been lifted then he would have had time to make the payment on Friday 3 April. 
Our investigator initially thought that had TSB not made the error, and a text message had 
been sent, Mr Ns payment wouldve been made and, on balance, wouldve reached the 
beneficiary before the deadline of 5 April. She felt TSB needed to go further with 
compensation. TSB rejected this view and provided further comments and a copy of the 
complaint call with Mr N on 4 April. It said it would have expected Mr N to persevere in trying 
to get through on the phone and to have logged in to his account to make sure the payment 
had gone through. It said Mr N didnt log back in to his account online until 8 April.  Mr N also 
provided a copy of emails from A regarding the pension transfer. 
Our investigator eventually concluded TSB didnt need to do anything further. She said in the 
emails from A there was no mention of when the funds needed to be received, nor was it 
mentioned that payment on 4 April would not be possible because it was a weekend. She 
said Mr N was made aware during the complaint call on 4 April that the transaction had been 
cleared as genuine and he could have attempted the payment then.
Mr N disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He made some 
additional comments which I have responded to below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr N for his detailed comments as they have enabled me to better 
understand the details of his complaint. Ive read all the evidence which has been sent to me 
and taken it on board but if I dont comment on every aspect or point its because I dont 
think I need to in order to reach my decision.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, but I wont be asking TSB to do anything 
further. 
Banks have a very real interest in identifying and preventing fraudulent payments. They have 
developed sophisticated systems to help them to do so. Sometimes they identify and block 
legitimate payments that a customer has properly authorised and wants to be paid. That can 
cause distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt mean that the bank has 
acted incorrectly.
As part of its own security measures to protect itself and its customers from fraud, TSB 
confirmed that payments and accounts are sometimes blocked while security checks are 
carried out. Ive seen a screen shot of the internal notification that the payment was checked 
and the block was lifted. So, Im satisfied TSB didnt do anything wrong in blocking the 
payment. 
There appears to be confusion about whether or not a text message was sent or if Mr N 
received a message from TSB that the payment had been unblocked. But TSB accepted that 
it should have sent Mr N a text message and theres no record of it being sent, so Im 
satisfied it likely wasnt. 
Mr N said he had difficulty getting through to TSB by telephone on 2 April to discuss the 
transaction. TSB said it was unusually busy due to circumstances outside its control, the 
Covid-19 lockdown. It told this service it would be reasonable to expect Mr N to persist in 
trying to contact it by telephone given the importance of the transaction. It also said Mr N did 
not log into his account again until 8 April and it would have expected him to do so. Im not 
aware of how often Mr N tried to call TSB but Im not disputing that he tried. However, I 
agree that as this was a time sensitive and important transaction it would be reasonable to 
expect Mr N to have logged on again within the time frame, especially as he was struggling 
to get through on the phone. Had he done so after the transaction was unblocked on 3 April 
he wouldve been able to attempt the transaction again.
From the emails sent, it seems Mr N spoke to A on the phone on 2 April before 3.36pm and 
confirmed he would be arranging a £37,000 payment into his policy. Mr N then emailed A at 
5.27pm that same day. He said one of the two transfers he wanted to make had been 
blocked and he couldnt get through to the bank. He went on to say it looked like he wouldnt 
be able to make the full payment he intended and then he asked if he needed to make any 
changes to the paperwork to recognise the lower amount received. He emailed A again at 
7.05pm asking A to respond to him on that same day. A replied to this email on 3 April 
confirming it had amended the transaction. 
Im persuaded by this email trail that Mr N decided at 5.27pm on 2 April to amend the 
premium to A, even though at that point it was not known whether the transaction would be 
able to go ahead or not. I say this because I think its reasonable Mr N could have asked A, 
within the same email at 5.27pm and in his follow up email of 7.05pm, when the latest a 
payment could be received by A. He could have delayed the emails to see if he could log on 
the next day and make the payment. He could also have asked for a call back from A to 
discuss his options, in the event he managed to reach TSB over the weekend. 
The email from A does not confirm when the payment needed to arrive. Where evidence is 
missing or disputed, I must make a decision based on the balance of probability, that is, what I believe is likely to be the case or is likely to have happened. In the absence of that 
confirmation, as the tax year for 2019/20 ended on 5 April its reasonable to assume the 
payment needed to be received by 5 April irrespective of it being a weekend. Ive seen the 
terms and conditions of the Faster Payment. It states TSB will normally send payment within 
two hours, and TSB has until the end of the next day to ensure the payment reaches the 
beneficiary, this includes payments made on a weekend. So Im persuaded that Mr N wasnt 
out of options. 
Mr N complained to TSB on 4 April, the Saturday. During the call he was told the transaction 
had been unblocked and could proceed. I understand why Mr N thought the deadline might 
be the Friday, he said that A needed cleared funds on the Friday 3 April. But I havent seen 
any evidence of this deadline, its not mentioned on the email from A, and as mentioned 
above payments from a bank are possible over a weekend. So I consider it reasonable that 
Mr N could have re-attempted the transaction on Saturday 4 April. 
In his response to this service Mr N said there is a distinction between a payment to A and a 
payment of a pension contribution to an A pension policy. Mr N received an email from A on 
Monday 6 April, acknowledging receipt of £30,000 and not £37,000 and applying it to Mr Ns 
pension account with effect from 2 April. While I cant be certain, I think it likely that had Mr N 
transferred the £7,000 sometime over the weekend this too would have been applied to his 
pension account.  And this email states that A applied the payment received to his pension 
account so I dont think the distinction Mr N makes would have affected the payment. 
Mr N said by the time he was aware the block had been lifted the premium had been 
amended. But Mr N amended the premium himself at 5.27pm on 2 April without making any 
enquiries of A about the possibility of payment on 3, 4 or 5 April should the block be lifted 
before 5 April.
Mr N said logging in to internet banking sooner would not have achieved anything because 
the payment had been rejected on the 2 April. I dont necessarily agree. I think it possible 
that had he logged in he could have attempted the transaction again. 
Mr N said he was working on the premise that a policy has to be in place first before he can 
pay a premium. He said the agreement he had with A had effectively been closed off on 3 
April. He said merely making a payment to A does not automatically qualify that as a pension
premium, there has to be a qualifying policy in existence in the first place. He said he would 
expect A to have strict processes in place to ensure funds are allocated and matched to the 
correct policy. I agree this is a reasonable expectation. But I think this could have been 
clarified on 3 and 4 April as Mr N was in email contact with A. The agreement does appear 
to have been closed off by Mr N himself on 2 April as he made no further enquiries as to 
whether A could receive payment on the Friday or over the weekend. 
Mr N has said he went to a lot of trouble to work out the pension contribution he needed to 
make. He said he finds it difficult to understand why TSB would not have any responsibility 
for his financial loss. I realise this was inconvenient for Mr N but Im satisfied TSB made no 
error in blocking the payment. This was in line with its anti-fraud procedures. It did fail to 
send him a text message to say the block had been lifted. But Mr N attempted the payment 
very close to the end of financial year deadline and Im persuaded Mr N could have spoken 
to A about payment timing either by email on 2 or 3 April or by requesting a call back from A. 
Mr N also said that as the aggrieved party he believes he should be offered the benefit of 
any doubt in this situation. I do understand how frustrating this situation is for Mr N and I can 
also understand his strength of feeling in this matter. But my role is to be objective and not 
take sides.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman