DRN-2640584
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and then closed his account. And refused to 
release funds remaining in his account to him.
What happened
Mr C had a personal current account with Santander. On 3 October 2019, two payments of 
£7,500 and £500 were paid into Mr Cs account.  On 4 October 2019, a further payment of 
£7,000 was paid into Mr Cs account. All the payments were made from the same account 
belonging to a company which I will refer to as X. Following these payments, Mr C made 
payments to a bitcoin company.
Santander decided to review how Mr C was operating his account. Whilst it conducted its 
review the bank blocked the account. Santander asked Mr C about the payments and to 
provide proof of his entitlement to the money which had been paid into his account. Mr C told 
the bank that money paid in to his account was payment for building work he intended to 
complete for X. And he provided a quotation invoice dated 16 August 2019, setting out 
building works hed agreed to do including fitting a bathroom, kitchen and reception area. 
Mr C also provided a letter from the director of X, confirming Mr C had already done some 
work for him, and asking for the payment made on 4 October 2019 to be returned if Mr C 
was no longer able to complete the work. Mr C also provided copies of Xs bank statement 
as evidence of the source of the funds.
 
Santander reviewed the information Mr C had provided.  But it wasnt satisfied it showed 
Mr C was entitled to the money. So, it didnt release the remaining money in the account to 
him. Following its review, Santander decided to close Mr Cs account without notice. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service where an investigator considered it. The 
investigator looked at everything Mr C had provided and said Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Mr Cs account. And after looking at the 
information provided by Mr C about his entitlement to the money agreed with the banks 
assessment. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about the 
payments into his account. And if Santander are not happy giving him the money it should 
just send the money back to Xs bank account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its 
obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. 
Santander is also entitled to ask a customer for more information about how they use their 
account, including payments which are made into and from an account. And its not for this 
service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any 
mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Mr Cs account and ask him for information about the money which 
had been paid into his account and how he was operating the account. I say this because 
from looking at how Mr C normally operated his account, the three payments were quite 
unusual. And the activity on the account isnt consistent with running a commercial building 
business. There are generally only small personal purchases being made and any large 
payments into the account were often spent quickly. The account also isnt a business 
account, its meant to be used as a personal account, so overall, I can understand why the 
bank had concerns. And I cant say the bank has treated Mr C unfairly when it blocked his 
account and asked him for information. 
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he wants the money that was paid into his account 
released to him. Mr C says the money is for building work hed agreed to do for X.  Having 
seen the evidence provided by both parties, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for 
Santander to continue withholding the accounts remaining balance from Mr C. I say this for 
the following reasons:
Mr Cs account activity isnt consistent with him running a business 
Mr C hasnt provided a contract of employment between him and X
The invoice provided by Mr C listed agreed work to be completed but lacked details 
of the individual prices for materials and quoted the total price for labour and 
materials as £15,000
The letter provided by the director of X suggested Mr C had already completed work 
on the property, however the funds credited Mr Cs personal account, and Mr C 
quickly made a payment to a bitcoin exchange company  which is unrelated to the 
purchase of building materials
Its not clear why Mr C was being paid in advance for work hed yet to complete
Theres no evidence of what work Mr C had already completed for X
The address provided for X isnt a commercial premises  but a block of flats
So, when I weigh everything up, I can understand why Santander wanted to know more 
about the funds. I can understand too why it didnt consider Mr C had adequately explained 
his entitlement to the money. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mr C unfairly when it 
decided not to release the money to him. And I wont be asking the bank to do so. It maybe 
that Mr C can provide more information. If he can Id expect the bank to review it.  
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Cs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Mr Cs account with immediate notice. Having looked at all the information provided, in my view that was reasonable, given the concerns the bank had about how Mr C 
was operating his account. And Im satisfied it did so in line with the terms and relevant 
terms and regulations. So, whilst I appreciate this caused Mr C trouble and upset, I cant say 
Santander have treated Mr C unfairly when it decided to close his account without notice. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman