DRN-3195108
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Nestor Financial Group 
Limited (Nestor) to transfer his deferred annuity contract benefits into a self invested 
personal pension (SIPP) in 2008. He wants to be put back as close to the position hed be in 
now if he hadnt been given the advice.
What happened
Mr D held a number of personal pension style plans and deferred annuity contract benefits 
deriving from Occupation Pension Scheme (OPS) membership of two periods of service 
which finished in January 1991. 
In 2008 Mr D met with Nestor to discuss his retirement planning as he wanted to review his 
existing pensions to determine whether a transfer to a new plan would be in his best 
interests. He also wanted to recommence contributions to his stakeholder pension plan. 
Mr D was defined as a moderately adventurous investor. Nestor recommended that Mr D 
transfer his personal pension plans (PPPs) into a SIPP and to continue to make personal 
and employer contributions through the BACS payroll system. Shortly after the 
recommendation Mr D also transferred his deferred annuity contract benefits into the SIPP. 
However, while it accepts that it facilitated the transfer, Nestor says it didnt give Mr D any 
advice on the matter. 
The transfer of Mr Ds pension funds went ahead over the following timescales:
Between 16 and 31 October 2008 - a total of £22,728.64 from PPPs.
8 December 2008 - £19,361.84 from another PPP.
22 December 2008 - £35,254.82 from the OPS.
30 April 2009 - £8,089.59 from another OPS.
16 August 2012 - £3,374.54 from another PPP.
Initially because of volatility in the markets the funds were held in cash and not invested by 
the appointed investment manager until 2009. 
During a review in September 2019 the funds, which were by then invested across a 
medium risk portfolio, were noted to be valued at around £200,694.
In 2019 Mr D complained about the advice hed been given previously. Specifically, the 
advice to transfer his deferred annuity benefits which he said included a guaranteed income 
 the equivalent of which couldnt be sustained from the value of his SIPP. 
Nestor didnt uphold the complaint. It said its pension summary notes from 2008 recorded 
that, I see no reason to change anything here due to the guarantees attached and the 
potential for increases to the guaranteed minimum pension. And, it was following the advice 
to transfer a number of PPPs, that Mr D gave Nestor authority to approach the provider who 
administered the OPS. So it said that as there was no evidence of a suitability report or any 
written record of a recommendation to transfer the deferred annuity benefits, it didnt think it 
had provided any advice to transfer those benefits and ultimately simply facilitated the 
transfer. 
In its submissions to us, Nestor reiterated that it hadnt given any advice to Mr D to transfer 
his deferred annuity benefits. But it also said that as he was aware that the benefits 
contained guarantees he ought to have brought his complaint earlier and thought the 
complaint had been brought outside of the time limits allowed. Our investigator looked into 
the matter, but he didnt think Mr D had been aware of a cause to complain more than three 
years before he did, and Nestor accepted his findings.
The investigator then considered the merits of the transfer and thought this was a complaint 
we should uphold. He thought that the evidence suggested that Nestor had, more likely than 
not, recommended that Mr D transfer the deferred annuity benefits or, if it hadnt, should 
have recorded that the transfer wasnt in his interests and should have demonstrated that 
Mr D was acting against its recommendation in that respect.
The investigator then went on to say that Nestor hadnt demonstrated that the transfer was in 
Mr Ds best interest and that it was therefore unsuitable. He said Nestor should put 
Mr D back, as closely as possible, to the position hed now be in had the advice been not to 
transfer the deferred annuity benefits.
Nestor didnt provide a response, so the complaint was passed to me for review. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. I made 
the following points in support of my findings:
Mr D had confirmed that his complaint didnt involve the transfer of the PPPs.
It wasnt in dispute that Nestor assisted with the transfer of the deferred annuity 
benefits. But it said it hadnt given any advice. I thought that as it had facilitated the 
transfer and received commission from the provider Nestor couldnt absolve itself of 
the responsibility around the transfer. I thought it should either have recorded the 
transaction as execution only or properly assessed the suitability of the transfer with 
regards to Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. 
Nestor, by involving itself in the transfer and not recording it as execution only, had 
a duty of care to ensure overall suitability. 
Nestor said that its pre transfer summary notes and suitability report didnt 
recommend transferring the deferred annuity benefits. But Id seen that it also said 
that Mr D shouldnt transfer one of his PPPs  a position which it later changed. So I 
thought it was possible for Nestor to have changed its pre transfer position on the 
deferred annuity benefits, particularly as from 1 October 2008 it became possible to 
transfer protected rights benefits to the SIPP. 
The timeline of events showed that the transfer of the deferred annuity benefits took 
place close enough to the application to transfer the PPPs for it to have been a 
continuation of the initial advice process. 
It was unclear why Mr D would have forwarded the pension discharge forms to 
Nestor for onward transmission if he had decided to transfer the benefits himself. 
I then went on to consider the suitability of the transfer and concluded that it was 
unlikely that the SIPP could have provided the same level of benefits from the 
transferred funds as the original deferred annuity contract. Further reasons for why the transfer wasnt suitable included the difficulty of 
achieving the required growth within the SIPP over the remaining investment horizon, 
and the additional adviser and SIPP charges which would have made it difficult to 
offset those charges over the remaining term until Mr Ds retirement. 
I didnt think it was reasonable to conclude the transfer was in Mr Ds best interest.
Nestor should compare the value of the benefits which were transferred to the SIPP 
with the notional value of the deferred annuity contract and pay Mr D compensation if 
hes suffered a loss.
Responses to my provisional decision     
  
Nestor didnt have any further comments to make and Mr D said he accepted the provisional 
decision. However, he did ask me to clarify the term fair compensation and wanted to know 
if we would validate the final compensation figure that Nestor would calculate should be 
paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further comments or submissions, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  
There are two issues for me to consider in this case. Firstly, I have to decide whether Nestor 
was responsible for the transfer of Mr Ds deferred annuity benefits, then I have to decide 
whether any such advice was suitable  given Mr Ds situation at the time. I have only 
considered the transfer of Mr Ds deferred annuity benefits here as he had previously 
confirmed that he wasnt complaining about the transfer of the PPPs or the other OPS 
transfer. 
Whether Nestor gave Mr D advice?
Nestor doesnt deny being involved in the transfer of Mr Ds deferred annuity contract and 
has said it did facilitate the transfer. But it says that was as a result of Mr Ds own decision 
after it had transferred his PPPs and set up the SIPP as a vehicle to accept the PPP 
transfers. Nestor has pointed out that it didnt provide a suitability report or indeed any 
written record to confirm any recommendation to transfer the deferred annuity. It says that 
would have been against the regulatory requirements at the time.
But Nestor did facilitate the transfer, and by being involved in that way it had a duty of care 
to either carry out the transaction as execution only  whereby it simply enacted Mr Ds 
demand to have the plan transferred, or it needed to fully assess the suitability of the transfer 
and provide a recommendation for whether the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests based 
on his situation.
In order to be categorised as an execution only sale the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) says that, If a firm arranges a pension transfer or pension opt-out for a retail client 
as an execution only transaction, the firm must make, and retain indefinitely, a clear record 
of the fact find that no personal recommendation was given to the client. 
Theres no evidence to show that this process was followed here, so Ive also considered if 
Nestor treated Mr D as an insistent client which would have required it to document that it 
had provided  a clear recommendation regarding the transfer, but that Mr D had rejected that 
recommendation and asked to take a different course of action. But theres no evidence to support that process was followed either. So I cant reasonably say that Nestor followed its 
regulatory obligations here and Ive concluded, from the available evidence, that having 
facilitated the transfer Nestor assumed responsibility for it and therefore was required to 
ensure it was in Mr Ds best interest.
Ive also considered some other reasons to suggest that Nestor was responsible for giving 
Mr D advice to transfer his deferred annuity contract. Nestor received commission for the 
transfer which was confirmed in a request to the SIPP provider to add further funds to Mr Ds 
SIPP on 31 October 2008. Apart from the fact that Nestor received payment for the 
transaction, Ive also noted that the date of the request was soon after the OPS issued 
transfer quotations (16 October 2008) for the deferred annuity contract and around two 
months after Mr D first met Nestor to discuss his situation. 
In my view this timeline would suggest that the majority of the PPP transfers and the 
deferred annuity contract transfer took place as a result of the original advice and wasnt a 
subsequent ad-hoc decision from Mr D to transfer the benefits himself. I think it would be 
unlikely that Mr D would involve Nestor in submitting the transfer forms and earning 
commission if the transfer was as a result of his own actions. 
So, Im satisfied that Nestor was responsible for the advice to transfer the deferred annuity 
contract or at least that the transfer wouldnt have taken place without its involvement. But I 
also have to consider whether the advice was suitable in this case.
The suitability of the advice to transfer the deferred annuity contract  
As Nestor hasnt been able to provide a copy of a suitability report regarding the transfer of 
the deferred annuity contract, Ive considered whether the transfer was in Mr Ds best 
interest based on what was known about him and the pension plan at the time. Ive started 
by looking at what I think would have been the most important factor when considering this 
transfer, namely whether Mr D would have been better off financially as a result. 
The deferred annuity contract provider has shown that Mr D would have received a total of 
£5,674.98 per annum from both parts of his annuity at his normal retirement date. This also 
allowed for a yearly 3% income increase. However, the cash equivalent transfer value of the 
deferred annuity was £35,254.82 and I think it would require little analysis to understand that 
the fund (excluding any growth) would only be able to provide the same income as the 
deferred annuity for a relatively small number of years. 
I think that if Mr D would have been provided with this basic information or more 
appropriately a deeper analysis of the position of both contracts, he would have been more 
likely than not to have chosen not to transfer his benefits. In the absence of such analysis 
Mr D had little information with which to make such a decision and I think Nestor should 
have ensured he was able to make a more informed decision. 
But there are other reasons to consider when looking at the suitability of the advice  
bearing in mind the investment horizon of the SIPP, which according to the suitability report 
was likely to be around seven years. Nestors initial charge for the transfer was 2% of the 
fund with a further 0.5% charge each year thereafter. There were also additional SIPP fees 
and fund charges. These charges would have affected the fund value after the transfer and I 
think it would have been difficult to offset them given the rather limited investment horizon. 
But even if the charges could be offset, I think it would have required investment into higher 
risk rated funds in order to potentially achieve the required higher growth. I think it would 
have required investment which would have been outside of Mr Ds moderately 
adventurous risk profile. So, based on these factors, I dont think the transfer was suitable for Mr D. I think its clear 
he wouldnt have been financially better off by transferring unless investment was made into 
funds which were likely to be too high a risk for him. And with the charges involved in the 
transfer I think its unlikely these could have been offset before Mr D wanted to access his 
benefits. Had Mr D been made aware of these risk factors, as well as the likelihood that it 
wasnt financially in his best interests to transfer  then I dont think he would have gone 
ahead with the transfer. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr D would have retained his deferred annuity contract. So Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr D's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
What must Nestor do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Nestor must:
Contact the original provider of the deferred annuity contract and obtain a notional
transfer value of what the deferred annuity would have been worth at the date of
calculation. This notional transfer value will take into account the ongoing value of the
annuity and any further bonuses added.
Compare that value with the current value of the proportion of benefits held in Mr Ds
SIPP that originated from that transfer.
Any loss Mr D has suffered should be determined by subtracting the current value of
the pension from this notional value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no
redress is payable.
If there is a loss the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ds
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available
tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr D hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional reduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.  
Following my provisional decision, we contacted the deferred annuity provider to ensure it 
could carry out the required calculation for a notional transfer value. It has provided the 
investigator with information which I understand might be possible for Nestor to use here. 
Nestor should contact the investigator if it wishes to use the information weve obtained as 
part of the overall requirements needed to carry out the redress calculation. 
Mr D has asked me to clarify the term fair compensation from my provisional decision and 
whether it equates to a benchmark of fairness. But the term simply refers to what I consider is a fair outcome based on the circumstances of his complaint. Im unable to confirm the 
monetary amount that Mr D might receive here, but the formula that Ive set out for the 
proposed redress is for Nestor to follow to calculate the correct amount of compensation due 
and for it to provide Mr D with details of the calculation.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Nestor Financial Group Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Nestor Financial Group Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman