DRN-3588753
The complaint
Mrs M complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs response to a claim she sought to make 
against it under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Between 2017 and 2021 Mrs M held property insurance policies on her home, from which 
she operated a small bed and breakfast service. The policies were arranged through  and 
renewed each year by  a broker R. Mrs M paid for at least two of the policies using her 
HSBC credit card. In 2021 Mrs M became concerned that the policies didnt include free 
legal expenses cover, as shed been led to believe in the original sale and subsequent 
renewals. She sought a refund from R, citing misrepresentation. R didnt agree and Mrs M 
turned to HSBC to see if she could recover her money from the bank.
HSBC said that section 75 didnt apply to Mrs Ms transactions, as they had been made in 
connection with her business. Mrs M didnt think this was right and complained to the bank. 
However HSBC maintained its position and Mrs M referred matters to us. She also brought a 
complaint to us about R, which has been dealt with separately by one of my ombudsman 
colleagues.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC was right to say that section 75 didnt apply. But he didnt 
think this had led to any material loss to Mrs M, because he wasnt persuaded there was 
sufficient evidence of misrepresentation. He found the policy documents silent as to whether 
the bed and breakfast extension included legal cover.
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators assessment. She provided extracts from the renewal 
quotes shed received that said legal expenses cover was automatically included. However, 
the investigator wasnt minded to change his view and so the dispute has been passed to 
me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are, I believe, two key questions for me to address here. They are: Did HSBC handle 
Mrs Ms section 75 claim appropriately, and if not, has that caused unfairness to Mrs M such 
that the bank should pay her compensation?
Did HSBC handle the claim appropriately?
In certain circumstances, Section 75 enables the debtor to bring a claim against their credit 
provider for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services 
paid for with that credit. There are specific qualifying criteria, such as the connection 
between the contracting parties, and the cash price falling within set limits, which in this case 
are met.
The Consumer Credit Act itself applies to agreements between creditors and individuals. 
The definition of individual in the Act excludes larger partnerships and limited companies. 
But the Act  and more specifically, section 75  doesnt contain any wording that suggests 
Mrs M is prevented from making a claim against HSBC on the basis that the claim is 
connected to a business she runs as a sole trader.
It follows that I dont consider HSBC handled Mrs Ms claim appropriately when it sought to 
reject on these grounds.
Did HSBCs handling of the claim cause unfairness to Mrs M such that she should be 
compensated?
Im conscious that Mrs M has already received a decision from another ombudsman setting 
out his opinion on Rs actions. And I know Mrs M feels strongly that shes provided evidence 
that those actions were incorrect. Ive carefully considered the evidence shes provided, and 
I can see why she views it that way. However, I dont think its sufficient to demonstrate that 
R misrepresented the particulars of the insurance policies to her, or that it failed to exercise 
due skill and care in providing its services as might amount to a breach of contract.
I say this because the renewal notifications were accompanied by policy documents that set 
out in some detail what is (and what is not) included as cover. Mrs M hasnt suggested that 
the provision of legal cover specific to the bed and breakfast aspect of the policies was a 
critical consideration for her when deciding whether to review. If it had been, it seems likely 
she would have identified the limitations on legal expenses cover from the policy documents. 
It wasnt wrong for the renewal quotes to set out that the policies included legal expenses 
insurance  it was part of the general policy terms.
So I dont find that the case for misrepresentation is sufficiently made out. And the policies R 
did set up appear to have met Mrs Ms stated needs. I cant rightly say that R  or by 
extension, HSBC  breached any contractual duty owed to Mrs M in recommending the 
policies.
I find that while HSBC rejected the claim for an incorrect reason, her claim would not 
otherwise have been likely to be successful. And it seems to me from Mrs Ms 
correspondence that even if HSBC had rejected her claim for different reasons, she would 
most likely have disagreed with that outcome and referred matters to us for review. She did, 
after all, do so in respect of similar arguments made by R.
I do not suggest any criticism of Mrs M over that decision; she has a genuine belief that she 
was misled and was entitled to follow up on that concern. But with this in mind, I dont 
consider she was caused material loss, distress or inconvenience by the banks handling of 
her claim. It follows that I dont require HSBC to pay her compensation or meet her claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman