DRN-3932411
The complaint
X and Mrs M complain about AXA Insurance UK PLC (AXA) who unfairly registered a 
declined claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Following a storm in which X and Mrs Ms fence became damaged, they contacted AXA to 
make a claim. AXA declined the claim as the policy didnt provide any cover for damage to 
fences. X and Mrs M appeared to accept this decision. 
A few months later, when X and Mrs M received their renewal invitation from AXA, they 
found that the quote was nearly twice the previous years premium. So, they contacted AXA. 
AXA explained that it had a duty to register all claims (whether successful or not) on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). And although it accepted that the claim was 
declined, it could not remove the entry from the register. 
X and Mrs M complained as they said it affected their premiums. In its final response, AXA 
maintained its position and also told X and Mrs M that the declined claim wasnt the only 
information it considered, when it issued the renewal. It gave X and Mrs M their referral 
rights. 
X and Mrs M referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that AXA had a duty to register all 
information regarding claims (whether successful or not) on the CUE. He said that the 
information entered on the CUE was accurate and it wouldnt be appropriate for our service 
to ask AXA to remove the information.   
AXA accepted the view, X and Mrs M did not. They said that the declined claim affected their 
premiums with AXA and other insurers that they had contacted. They confirmed that they 
hadnt renewed with AXA but had suffered financially, given the information on the CUE. So, 
they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment towards, X and Mrs M but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why 
Ive reached this decision. 
X and Mrs M contacted AXA to make a claim following a storm. That claim was declined as 
the policy didnt cover damage to fences. Having review the policy terms and conditions, Im 
satisfied that the claim was fairly declined by AXA. And I understand that X and Mrs M were 
content with the decision to decline. 
The issue arises at the point of the renewal invitation. X and Mrs M explained that the 
premium that AXA quoted was almost twice the previous years premium. They enquired 
with AXA as to why the premium was so high. 
They complained to AXA who informed them that they were obligated to register the claim 
on the CUE. And X and Mrs M believed that the premium substantially increased, due to the 
declined claim. 
Every insurer generally subscribes to what is known as the CUE. The CUE is a centralised 
insurance database that allows the insurance industry to provide and share information. As a 
result, AXA (who had subscribed to the CUE) had to register any claims  whether 
successful or not on the database. Nonetheless, our service would need to be satisfied that 
the information that AXA entered on the database was accurate. 
I asked AXA to provide me with the entry on the CUE. I can confirm that the entry indicated 
that there was damage to a fence following a storm and that no cover was provided. So, Im 
satisfied that the entry registered by AXA was accurate on the CUE. 
AXA also provided their own systems records, and I can see from that evidence, that X and 
Mrs Ms no claims discount was unaffected. 
I asked AXA for a copy of its underwriting criteria. And it confirmed that there were several 
factors that it took into consideration when it generated the renewal premium. And that the 
declined claim was not the only criteria. 
Also, not all insurers use the CUE for pricing, so it could be that the claim makes no 
difference to the future premiums a policyholder will have to pay. Consequently, although I 
accept X and Mrs Ms premiums increased, I cant agree that the increase was solely due to 
the declined claim. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed X and Mrs M will be, 
Im satisfied that AXA accurately registered the declined claim on the CUE, as it was 
obligated to do. And I cant reasonably ask it to remove the entry from the CUE.  
Accordingly, I cant fairly ask AXA to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman