DRN-3670964
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC converted a payment of 
sterling sent in error to the wrong account into euros and didnt warn it this could happen.
What happened
A had received payments from a client overseas in both sterling and euros. For the payment 
involved here it invoiced the client in sterling and gave it the correct account number. But in 
error the client sent the money in sterling to As euro account. Barclays converted this to 
euros and then A then converted this back to sterling. It says it has lost £1,096 in the 
conversions.
Barclays said it hadnt made any error. The terms and conditions of the euro account set out 
that if a payment is received in a different currency it will be converted and a margin applied. 
The error was made by As client. It has exceptionally now added a do not convert  (DNC) 
marker to the account and this prevented a similar payment being converted in February 
2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the account 
had been opened correctly and A was sent a welcome letter and a copy of the terms and 
conditions. The DNC marker wasnt offered at the time of opening and was only used in 
exceptional circumstances as it required payments to be handled manually and may cause 
delay or payments to be returned. The terms of the account stated that:
Payments into your account
Well convert the payment into the currency of your account. To do this, we use the Barclays 
reference exchange rate plus a margin, which creates the exchange rate. The margin is 
determined by the amount of the payment and is available on request. You can ask us for 
an indication of the exchange rate at any time. The exchange rate changes to reflect 
currency- market movements, so we wont be able to confirm the actual rate until we receive 
the payment. You can find our current Barclays reference exchange rates by calling us 
through your usual contact.
He said Barclays has acted here in line with As instructions and it wasnt our role to say 
what its processes should be.
A didnt agree. It said that a separate company had handled the administration and post for it 
and so the director had no recollection of the information about the account being received. 
A questioned why it had been offered a euro account when all its bills were paid in sterling. 
So, it said that this account had no purpose. A said it wasnt made aware of the pitfalls or of 
the DNC marker. Had it been it would have asked for this to be added. And it said that A had 
to work things out for itself. It referred to its understanding that other banks automatically 
rejected payments received in a different currency. Barclays had made a profit as a result of 
As clients error and it thought it should offer some concession at least.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider it was a matter for A to decide how its administration would be handled. And to 
make sure that any product it had met its needs. Ive seen a copy of the welcome letter it 
was sent in August 2019 and it was referred to the terms and conditions of the account.
I note from a letter that A sent to Barclays dated 8 November 2021 about this complaint that 
it stated the euro account had worked well. And although Barclays had offered a more 
favourable conversion rate to sterling we were able to easily better this elsewhere, so we 
simply transfer out the Euros when received. It went on to say that its client has actually 
made the same error with [A] previously  we just did not pick this up when the transaction 
completed at a loss.
There was a sizeable conversion difference this time and I know that A doesnt consider that 
it should be responsible for this especially as it trades itself on low margins. It isnt in dispute 
here that the primary error was made by the client who sent the payment to the wrong 
account. It seems that there may have been the opportunity to identify this before. In any 
event Im clear from the terms and conditions of the account that Barclays didnt make any 
mistake in converting the payment and applied its usual margin for the service provided. And 
so, it didnt have to take any other action.
Im also clear that the DNC marker isnt a standard option with this account and wouldnt be 
offered to A when the account is opened. It isnt described in the terms and conditions and is 
something that is offered in exceptional circumstances as have now been identified here. 
Because it seems that the client had sent a further sterling payment to the account - 
although a much smaller amount  in February 2022. Barclays had applied a DNC marker by 
then and so contacted A about that payment, and it was applied to the sterling account.
I appreciate that A thinks Barclays ought to have alerted it to this risk from the start. And that 
had it done so it would have asked for the DNC marker. But to find that Id need to think that 
Barclays had an obligation to do so. It sets its own processes and here the terms and 
conditions do set out the way this account operates. And as I say there is no standard 
account feature to apply the DNC marker. So, while I can see As argument and appreciate 
the impact of whats happened I dont have a reasonable basis to require Barclays to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman