DRN-4329006
The complaint
Mr D and Miss B are unhappy with the way in which Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
handled a claim made on their travel insurance policy and the medical assistance provided 
whilst they were abroad.
All references to Admiral include its claim handlers and medical assistance team.
What happened
Mr D and Miss B had the benefit of a multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Admiral (the policy). Whilst abroad, during the period of cover, Mr D became ill, and Admiral 
was contacted for assistance. 
Mr D and Miss B are very unhappy with the overall service they received from Admiral 
including the lack of communication, unnecessary delays and failing to promptly provide an 
updated guarantee of payment (GOP) to the treating hospital. As a result, they say Mr D was 
kept longer in hospital than medically necessary as the treating hospital wouldnt discharge 
him unless they personally paid the medical bills  which they couldnt afford to do  or it 
received an updated GOP from Admiral. 
In its final response letter Admiral accepted that it shouldve provided Mr D and Miss B with a 
better service, and it acknowledged it hadnt offered the help and support they needed. It 
apologised and offered Mr D and Miss B £400 compensation. This was declined by Mr D 
and Miss B and they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt think Admiral had to do anything 
more. He said compensation in the sum of £400 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr D and Miss B disagreed. So, Ive been passed this complaint to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to be clear at the outset that Ive only considered the issues relating to the way in 
which the claim was handled, and medical assistance provided by Admiral whilst Mr D and 
Miss B were abroad (as discussed between Miss B and Admirals representative in 
December 2022) and addressed in Admirals final response letter dated January 2023. And I 
havent considered any issues around the costs incurred by Miss B making many calls to 
Admiral during that time and claims made on the policy (including for taxi expenses and 
costs of phone calls) which are being considered by Admiral separately. 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should handle insurance claims promptly and fairly - and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim.
Admiral accepts that it shouldve handled Mr D and Miss Bs claim better and provided better 
service whilst Mr D was in hospital. It accepts that:
it didnt initiate contact with Mr D and Miss B during the time Mr D was in hospital. 
And it was Miss B who had to chase Admiral for updates and responses.
it couldve done more to manage Mr D and Miss Bs expectations and provide them 
with reassurances they needed around the action being taken on their case and 
timeframes. 
It apologised to Mr D and Miss B and offered them £400 compensation. I think thats 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
As Mr D and Miss B couldnt afford to pay for the medical bills upfront, the treating hospital 
wasnt prepared to discharge Mr D from hospital until Admiral had provided an updated 
GOP. I dont think Admiral are responsible for that decision. Nor do I think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to want to verify the claim before providing an updated GOP. 
Thats standard industry practice. 
Admiral accepts that it didnt notice some key considerations initially which it ought to have 
done. That meant there were delays following up some information it needed to confirm 
cover and provide an updated GOP. For example, it accepts it delayed requesting Mr Ds 
past medical history from his GP and overlooked some information sent to it by the treating 
hospital around the costs of Mr Ds treatment.
I accept it was reasonable for Admiral to request a report from Mr Ds GP to verify the claim 
and ensure that hed answered questions about his health correctly when taking out the 
policy. But on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that had this information been 
requested and clarified earlier, its likely a GOP wouldve been provided earlier. Once 
information had been requested, it looks like Admiral received a prompt reply. And theres no 
reason to think had this information been requested when it ought to have been, the 
information wouldnt have been provided equally promptly. 
Whilst this issue was still ongoing Miss B said that she and Mr D had spent days and nights 
worrying whilst on holiday and they hadnt benefitted from being away because of the stress 
of all this. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Admiral 
responsible for the totality of the stress and upset Mr D and Miss B experienced. I think Mr D 
becoming seriously ill wouldve been incredibly upsetting and worrying for them. Further, 
Admiral isnt responsible for the treating hospitals procedure that it wouldnt discharge a 
patient until a GOP had been issued covering the costs incurred.
However, I accept Mr D remaining in hospital several days longer than he needed to 
wouldve been very frustrating for Mr D and Miss B. And, despite the treating hospitals 
policy - I think its likely he wouldve been discharged earlier if Admiral had done what it 
ought to have done initially. Ive seen reference in the contact notes to Miss B being livid 
and worried that they were missing out on some of the holiday because Mr D was being kept 
in unnecessarily. And I can understand why.
Their distress and worry wouldve been exacerbated by the unnecessary inconvenience of 
Miss B having to contact Admiral to find out what was going on, not receiving updates as 
promised and generally not having their expectations managed around when a GOP would 
likely be provided and what was still required. There were also occasions when Miss B was 
told misleading information. For example, she was advised that Admiral was in the process 
of sending the GOP on 14 September 2022  a day after Admiral was told that Mr D was 
ready to be discharged  but that didnt happen. Further, by then, Admiral hadnt requested a report from Mr Ds GP in the UK even though Miss B was told a few days before that this 
was needed. So, I can understand why Mr D and Miss B were so upset by this stage. 
And whilst I can understand why Admiral wanted a breakdown of costs from the treating 
hospital to verify and then look to negotiate these before providing an updated GOP, it 
overlooked it had received this.
However, ultimately, Mr D was able to leave the treating hospital before the updated GOP 
was provided by Admiral by surrendering his passport.
I accept that Miss B was still having to regularly chase Admiral for updates which wouldve 
been frustrating. I can also understand why they wouldve feared missing their flight back to 
the UK if the updated GOP wasnt provided. Thats because the issue was only resolved 
within the few days before they were due to return to the UK and, up until then, the treating 
hospital still retained Mr Ds passport.
Overall, Im satisfied that £400 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by Miss B and Mr D as a result of Admirals errors in this case.
Putting things right
I understand Admirals offer to settle the complaint wasnt accepted by Mr D and Miss B so 
hasnt been paid. That being the case, I direct Admiral to pay Mr D and Miss B £400 
compensation its already offered to pay.
My final decision
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 to Mr D and 
Miss B to settle the complaint. I think thats fair in all the circumstances. My decision is that 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay £400 to Mr D and Miss B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman