DRN-3054173
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unreasonably limited access to 
its branches during the pandemic. Mrs H also complains that it took too long to get served 
when she visited a branch of Halifax.
 
What happened
Mrs H has explained that she works full time from Monday to Friday and that Halifaxs 
decision to limit branch opening hours during the pandemic meant she was unable to visit. 
Mrs H says that there is no convenient Post Office nearby and that she was unfairly 
impacted by the way Halifax limited its branch availability. 
Mrs H complained and Halifax responded to say it had acted in line with government 
guidance during the pandemic. Halifax said its actions were taken to protect customers and 
staff. Halifax gave Mrs H details of alternative ways she can bank, including using the Post 
Office to pay bills, make deposits and withdrawals. 
Mrs H complained to Halifax again and said a branch visit had taken too long because staff 
were unnecessarily chatting with other customers. Mrs H also complained that she was 
initially called to a faulty cash desk to complete the withdrawal.  In its response, Halifax 
apologised and paid Mrs H £40. Halifax also said its branches were beginning to extend 
opening hours in line with government guidance. 
As Mrs H remained unhappy with Halifaxs actions she referred her complaint to this service 
and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Halifax had dealt with Mrs Hs complaint 
fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs H didnt agree and said branch staff couldve 
done more to reduce the amount of time taken. As Mrs H asked to appeal, her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs Hs complaint falls broadly into two parts, Ill start by looking at Halifaxs decision to 
limit branch opening hours. Halifax has explained its decision to limit branch operating hours 
was taken in line with government guidance. I dont doubt that the situation caused Mrs H 
some inconvenience. But Im satisfied Halifax was acting to try and protect customers and 
staff as it says. 
Mrs H has explained why the change in hours was so inconvenient and has told us there is 
no branch located close to where she works. Mrs H also says there are no conveniently 
located Post Offices. Halifax says customers were encouraged to use online and telephone 
banking where appropriate and that many of the transactions that could be carried out in 
branch were available at the Post Office. Mrs H has told us she cant visit a branch of the 
Post Office during her break from work. But the Post Office remained open during the 
pandemic as it was classed as an essential service and the services it offered were available 
on a Saturday. 
I agree that the level of branch availability was severely limited during this period but Im 
satisfied Halifax did offer reasonable alternatives that were in line with the government 
guidance. 
Mrs H has also complained that a branch visit to withdraw some cash took too long. Mrs H 
says counter staff chatted with customers and shouldve taken less time. I can see how 
frustrated Mrs H is at the service she received. Halifax has confirmed that, at the time, it 
wanted to engage with customers who mayve been isolated during the lockdown. Whilst I 
understand that approach mayve impacted how long it took for Mrs H to be served, I think 
its a reasonable point. But Ive taken what Mrs H has told us into account when deciding 
how to fairly resolve her complaint. 
I also understand Mrs Hs withdrawal was delayed when the wrong denominations were 
initially dispensed. Halifax has explained this was a technical fault and counter staff resolved 
it. Again, Ive taken this into account when considering the outcome of this complaint. 
Halifax paid Mrs H £40 and apologised for the way her visit to its branch was handled. Whilst 
I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Mrs H, Im satisfied £40 is a fair reflection of 
the impact caused by the way her branch visit was handled. As I think Halifax has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable, Im not telling it to increase the award. 
As Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with Mrs Hs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman