DRN-2696087
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAIS) as it 
removed part of his cover which he says he hadnt authorised it to, which left him without 
cover when his car broke down and needed repair.
What happened
Mr Ms policy via AAIS was due to renew in September 2020. AAIS sent him renewal 
documents and Mr A called it to discuss the price. Following the call two parts of the cover 
were removed, one of which was for parts and repairs (known as breakdown repair cover). 
Mr Ms car subsequently broke down and was taken to a garage for repair. He was told he 
didnt have cover for the repair and complained to AAIS. 
AAIS said Mr M had asked for this cover to be removed when he called it prior to the 
September 2020 renewal. Mr M denied having given it that instruction and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He listened to the renewal call and all the 
subsequent conversations AAIS and Mr M had. He also noted the paperwork Mr M was sent 
following the renewal discussion. He was satisfied that Mr M had asked for the cover to be 
removed, that AAIS had been clear about what it had done and it hadnt later misled him into 
thinking he had this cover (when he did not). 
Mr M remained adamant that he hadnt asked for this cover to be removed. He asked for an 
ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M believes that he didnt ask for the parts and repair cover to be removed and that 
AAIS did this without his permission. But Ive heard the renewal call and Mr M did tell AAISs 
representative that he didnt need this cover anymore. And this request followed quite a 
lengthy discussion about the nature of the cover and issues Mr M had previously had with 
making use of the service it provided. I think its fair to say Mr M didnt feel the cover 
represented value for money. In the call the representative was trying to help Mr M reduce 
his renewal cost and provided him with price details for cover without the parts and repair 
cover. The representative ended the call by telling Mr M he wanted to be sure Mr M was 
happy with the changes made to the cover. And Mr M said he was. So I think Mr M is 
mistaken in his recollection of what happened during this call and what he asked or 
authorised AAIS to do.
I note that AAIS followed the call up by sending new policy paperwork to Mr M. The first line 
of a letter sending Mr M his new membership card, which was sent a few days after the call 
which had prompted the removal of the cover, said Thank you for contacting us to remove 
Stay Mobile and Breakdown Repair Cover. I think AAIS was clear with Mr M about what it 
had done and what cover he had.
I understand that Mr M feels that AAIS later suggested it would reinstate the cover and/or 
accept his claim. But I havent seen any evidence to support that and, in updating our 
investigator, AAIS has maintained its position that Mr M chose to remove this cover and he 
wasnt, therefore, able to benefit from payment by it towards repairs when his car broke 
down. I know AAIS, in January 2021, did add this cover back on to Mr Ms policy. But during 
that call the representative was clear with Mr M that this additional cover couldnt be used 
retrospectively for the breakdown repair Mr Ms car already needed.
Im sorry my decision will likely disappoint Mr M  I know his car is very important to him and 
that he is struggling to find the money to repair it. However, whilst I dont doubt that he 
believes he didnt ask for this cover to be removed, he actually did. And he was sent 
paperwork which clearly showed that and what he did have cover for. Im not persuaded that 
AAIS made a mistake here or caused Mr M to have made a mistake. In light of that, I cant 
reasonably uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman