DRN-2779662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a claim they 
made on their annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs L took out an annual travel insurance policy online through a price 
comparison website to cover a forthcoming trip. Mr and Mrs L travelled abroad as theyd 
planned. Unfortunately, while they were away, Mr L began to suffer from pain and vomiting. 
He sought medical treatment at a local hospital and was treated for a kidney stone. 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs L were able to return home on their pre-booked flight. They made a 
claim for Mr Ls medical expenses. 
IPA investigated the claim. It noted that the medical certificate completed by Mr Ls GP 
stated that Mr L had been receiving treatment for otitis externa at the point he bought the 
policy. It said that during the online sales process, Mr L had been asked whether anyone the 
policy covered had any pre-existing medical conditions). Mr L had answered no and had 
been able to go ahead and buy the policy. But it said he shouldve answered yes. IPA said 
that if Mr L had correctly answered yes to this question, he wouldnt have been able to buy 
this policy. Thats because it didnt cover any pre-existing medical conditions at all. It said he 
wouldve been directed to buy a different policy which did cover medical conditions. So it 
turned down Mr and Mrs Ls claim and offered to refund the premiums theyd paid for the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with IPAs decision and they complained. Mr L said that as hed 
thought otitis externa was minor and didnt usually require treatment, it wouldnt be 
considered as a pre-existing medical condition. So they asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Mr and Mrs L had sought to mislead IPA deliberately. But she thought that Mr L had 
answered a clear question incorrectly. And she was satisfied that if Mr L had told IPA about 
his pre-existing medical condition, it would never have offered Mr and Mrs L this particular 
policy. So she felt it was fair for IPA to turn down the claim and offer to refund the premiums 
Mr and Mrs L had paid.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They maintained that otitis externa wasnt a pre-existing medical 
condition. They felt that IPA had been disingenuous throughout, initially relying on historic 
medical conditions to turn down the claim. At the time theyd taken out the policy, Mr L had 
correctly answered no to the question of whether he had a pre-existing condition, as he 
considered the otitis externa to have been treated and resolved. They felt that according to 
IPAs logic, all potential policyholders would have to declare their entire medical history, as 
every medical episode would count as a pre-existing medical condition.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think IPA has treated Mr and Mrs L fairly. Ill explain why. 
When Mr L took out the policy online, he was asked information about himself and Mrs L, 
their trip and whether they had any medical conditions. IPA used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Mr and Mrs L and if so, on what terms. 
IPA says that Mr L didnt correctly answer a question about whether or not he or Mrs L had 
any existing medical conditions. This means the principles set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its 
fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to correctly answer an 
insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at 
what Mr L was asked when he took out the policy. 
Mr L bought the policy through a comparison website. IPA has provided us with information 
to show what happened at the time of sale. One screen asked:
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition? 
This screen included an information box underneath which said: 
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip, its important you tell us about your medical 
history. If you do not declare medical conditions this may invalidate your policy. Examples 
include diabetes; high blood pressure; depression and respiratory conditions (including 
asthma). 
Mr L had to either answer yes or no to this question. Mr L answered no and so he was 
directed to the policy he went on to buy. This policy didnt include any cover at all for any 
pre-existing medical conditions. If Mr L had answered yes, hed have been directed to a 
policy which did provide cover for pre-existing conditions. IPA says Mr L shouldve answered 
yes to this question, because Mr L was suffering from otitis externa at the time he took out 
the policy. So Ive looked at Mr Ls medical records and thought about whether he took 
reasonable care to answer the question he was asked. 
The GPs notes show that Mr L underwent an ear assessment on 23 April 2019 and was 
found to have redness in his ear. On 7 May 2019, he was diagnosed with otitis externa and 
referred to emergency ENT for management, as well as being prescribed medication. He 
was seen in the emergency ENT clinic a couple of days later. On 31 May 2019, Mr L visited 
the GP again, as he was continuing to suffer from otitis externa. He was prescribed different 
medication to try and treat his symptoms. The notes suggest that the GP considered a 
further ENT referral.
Mr and Mrs L took out their policy on 5 June 2019. So at the time Mr L went through the 
online application process, hed been suffering from symptoms of otitis externa; had received 
a diagnosis; been prescribed medication; had been referred to emergency ENT and had 
seen medical professionals about the condition on a few occasions. So I think it was reasonable for IPA to conclude that Mr L did have a medical condition at the time he took out 
the policy.
Mr L accepts he was aware of his otitis externa. But he didnt think it should be treated as a 
pre-existing medical condition, as he considered the condition to be resolved. However, the 
evidence seems to suggest his symptoms were ongoing and being treated for over a month 
before he took out the policy and the medical notes show that he continued to visit both his 
GP and emergency ENT with ongoing symptoms in the months immediately after they took 
out the policy. So I dont think it was unfair for IPA to conclude that Mr Ls otitis externa 
hadnt been resolved and that it was an active medical condition at the time the policy was 
taken out.
Taking the above into account, I think the question was sufficiently clear that it shouldve 
prompted Mr L to answer yes to it. If hed done so, its clear that IPA would never have sold 
Mr L this particular policy. This means I think Mr L did make a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. So I think IPA is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the 
Act. 
IPA considers Mr Ls misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. I 
think this was a fair conclusion for IPA to reach. CIDRA says, in cases of careless 
misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract at all, its entitled to 
avoid the policy (cancel it as if it never existed) and return the premiums to the policyholder. 
Thats whats happened in this case. IPA wouldnt have entered into this particular contract 
with Mr and Mrs L and its offered to return their premium. So I think its reasonably applied 
the remedy available to it under the Act. 
I understand Mr and Mrs L have a large, outstanding medical bill to pay and I sympathise 
with their position. But I think IPA has dealt with their claim fairly and appropriately based on 
the remedy available to it under CIDRA. This means that I think it was fair for IPA to turn 
down Mr and Mr Ls claim, avoid their policy and offer to refund their premiums. Its open to 
Mr and Mrs L to accept IPAs premium refund offer should they wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman