DRN-3870574
The complaint
Mr H complains that advice given by F2 Capital Ventures LLP trading as The Complete 
Financial Player was unsuitable and caused him a financial loss.
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr H approached F2 Capital Ventures LLP trading as The Complete 
Financial Player (F2) for pensions advice. He was interested in consolidating his pensions 
in order to release tax-free cash, and invest the remainder in Dolphin Capital, an unregulated 
German property scheme, which hed heard about through a third party. Mr H apparently 
had another financial adviser to arrange the investments, but he needed a regulated 
financial adviser to handle the pension transfers. 
F2 gathered information about Mr Hs circumstances at the time as follows:
He was aged 55, married and in good health;
He was employed with a salary of £40,000, received annual income from other 
sources of £50,000, and was a higher-rate taxpayer;
His net worth was in the range of £500k-£1m made up of:
- Property worth £530,000, which included his main home valued at £280,000 
(outstanding mortgage of £20,000);
- Vintage Cars worth £173,000 
- Cash savings of £11,000
In terms of pension provision Mr H was contributing to his current employers defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme (OPS), which he didnt want advice about.  He also had the 
following pensions to which he no longer contributed:
A deferred annuity plan valued a just over £152,000 with provider L (a S32 buy-out 
plan from an OPS Mr H left in 2004, with compulsory retirement at 60, and a five-year 
guarantee) 
A defined contribution plan held with B from another previous employer valued at 
around £16,300 (which came with protected tax-free cash entitlement of over 25%)
A stakeholder pension with provider S valued at just under around £13,900
The fact find stated Mr H planned to rely on the sale of his assets (property and vintage cars) 
to fund his retirement, rather than his pensions. And although his retirement age was 65, he 
wanted the flexibility to retire earlier. His attitude to risk based on a questionnaire was 
determined to be 7/10 (progressive). Mr H signed the client declaration section of the fact 
find document on 21 August 2018. 
On 30 October 2018 prior to the suitability report being issued, Ms W (F2s paraplanner) 
asked Mr H to clarify the value of his assets to confirm his status as a HNWI. Mr H said 
£173,000 was the book value of his vintage cars, but due to restoration work they were 
now worth around £220,000. And in addition to the second property worth around £300,000 
and £11,000 cash, he also had tools worth around £15,000. Later that day Mr S the F2 
adviser called Mr H to discuss the advice. He told Mr H to think about the guaranteed 
benefits hed lose by transferring his policy with L, although the two other plans were money 
purchase anyway. While ordinary retail clients werent permitted to invest in non-mainstream 
investments such as Dolphin, Mr H could, as he met the criteria of a high net worth individual 
(HWNI). Mr H was told if he wanted to proceed, he should ensure hes comfortable with 
taking that level of risk, and to weigh the issues set out in the report carefully before going 
ahead. The adviser also said he intended to reduce F2s fee to £4,000 to reflect the work 
being done. During this conversation Mr H said hed never relied on these pensions, and his 
view was while it may not work out, the Dolphin investment was a punt he wished to take. 
In November 2018 F2 issued its suitability report being the formal confirmation of the advice. 
Firstly it considered the transfer of the deferred annuity policy with L, from which benefits or 
tax-free cash (TFC) couldnt be taken until 60. It provided an annual pension of around 
£6,267, or TFC of just under £33,387 and a reduced annual pension of £5,008. But a 
personal pension or Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) would need to grow by 8.91% 
(the critical yield) and be worth around £214,480 to provide the same level of benefits. 
The report went on to recommend a particular SIPP and stated Mr Hs attitude to risk as 
(7/10) highest medium. If Mr H decided to go ahead with the high risk Dolphin investment, 
F2 recommended he invest the remainder in a risk appropriate portfolio through a 
discretionary fund management arrangement via a provider such as 7IM, to balance the 
risk. F2 confirmed it would reduce its fee from 3.25% (£5,925) as set out in its terms to 
£4,000.
The report set out a number of risks Mr H should consider before deciding, and came with a 
number of appendices, including the risk report, a review of the Dolphin investment, a 
pension scams booklet and the key features of the recommended SIPP.
Mr H accepted F2s advice and on 26 November 2018 he signed the SIPP application and a 
HNWI statement, in which box B had been ticked, confirming he held net personal assets 
to the value of £250,000 or more, not including his primary residence or any pension 
benefits. This stated Mr H may lose significant consumer protection such as the right to 
complain to this service or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme should something 
go wrong. The form also contained the warning I accept that the investments to which the 
promotions will relate may expose me to a significant risk of losing all of the money or other 
property invested.
The funds were transferred to the new SIPP in December 2018 and January 2019, from 
which Mr H took TFC of just over £44,794. He paid £64,285 for a five-year Dolphin Capital 
loan note, which would pay interest of 10% per year with a final 10% bonus at the end of the 
term.
In January 2019 F2 wrote to Mr H in respect of the proposed investments in Dolphin and 
7IM, setting out their recommendations and ongoing fees. Mr H said he didnt want or need 
investment advice, although he did invest the balance of his SIPP with 7IM. 
Prior to the end of the five-year term, the Dolphin investment failed, so in October 2020 Mr 
Hs CMC complained that F2s advice hadnt been in Mr Hs best interests, as Dolphin was 
an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) and not suitable for retail investors like 
him. And F2 hadnt followed the regulatory guidance in respect of transfers from defined 
benefit pension schemes, so F2 should reimburse Mr H for his loss.
F2 didnt respond to Mr Hs complaint, so his representatives referred it to our service in 
January 2021. Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended F2 pay 
compensation. F2 didnt agree so the case came to me for review. 
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 in which I made the following findings: 
The transfer of the DB plan with L
The DB plan with L formed the bulk of the pension funds Mr H transferred to the SIPP and 
was a S32 buy-out plan from a previous employer, with a transfer value of £152,074.  This 
policy wasnt flexible, as it didnt allow Mr H to take benefits before age 60 (in 2023), and he 
couldnt access the TFC and leave the remainder invested. But a DB plan provides a 
guaranteed income for life, plus a spouse pension, so F2 was obliged to follow the 
regulators presumption of unsuitability as set out in COBS 19.1.6G in the current rule 
book, but which applied from 2001. And the advice took place after the FCA issued its 
updated guidance FG17/9 concerning defined benefit transfers. So if F2 were to recommend 
the transfer, it had to demonstrate it was clearly in Mr Hs best interests. 
As well as assessing the suitability of the transfer, F2 was required to assess the 
investments Mr H intended to make. In January 2013 the then regulator the FSA issued an 
alert reminding financial advisers that they shouldnt be advising on the suitability of a SIPP 
in the abstract. And another alert in January 2017 told firms they should consider the 
assets in which the clients funds will be invested as well as the specific receiving scheme. It 
is the responsibility of the firm advising on the transfer to take into account the 
characteristics of these assets.
The suitability report set out the growth necessary to provide the same benefits (critical yield) 
as 8.91%. And warned on a number of occasions, that transferring meant giving up valuable 
guaranteed benefits transferring away from a Defined Benefit Scheme also removes the 
assurity (sic) to income that it provides you, and that the fund could run out by the time Mr H 
was 89. It warned Mr H should the Dolphin investment fail he would need to make 
significant pension contributions to replace the lost pension fund. This would cause financial 
concern and as such your income and standard of living in retirement could be affected.
And in a section headed FINAL WARNINGS: Re Dolphin Trust the adviser said The 
Financial Conduct Authority along with myself as a Financial Adviser are uncomfortable with 
the investment of a client's funds into Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes. This type 
of investment has led to many clients losing their invested funds
On the other hand, the L plan didnt permit alternative investments such as Dolphin Capital, 
and if Mr H transferred all three plans to the same PP or SIPP his annual costs would reduce 
from three providers to one.
F2 was able to recommend the transfer as the only way to meet Mr Hs objective of investing 
in Dolphin. I was satisfied Mr H had been warned about the risks involved in transferring and 
investing in Dolphin, from the suitability report, the NHWI form which Mr H signed, and from 
listening to the call with the adviser who stressed the risks involved in non-mainstream 
investments. And although Mr H said he didnt need investment advice, F2 said he should 
ensure his other adviser was FCA regulated, and that he should reduce the overall risk of his 
portfolio with the 7IM balanced fund. 
In isolation I wasnt persuaded the transfer of the L defined benefit policy was in Mr Hs best 
interests. Although Mr H wanted to ensure he could access the TFC, he didnt have a 
specific need for it (and I understand hasnt spent it) so I thought F2 couldve reassured him 
on this point. But this wasnt Mr Hs only, or even main, pension provision. He was 
contributing to his current employers OPS and had other assets which he valued at over £200k. Mr H queried the information F2 held about his assets. But hed confirmed the 
accuracy of the information F2 had recorded in relation to his finances and personal 
circumstances by signing the client declaration on 21 August 2018, so I thought it was fair for 
F2 to rely on it. 
I listened to the call recording with Mr S the F2 adviser on the evening of 30 October 2018 in 
which Mr H said he wasnt relying on these pensions for his retirement. And that while he 
recognised [investing in Dolphin] may not go right, hed rather take a punt with it. Theres a 
note rather than a recording of the call earlier in the day with Ms W in which the value of Mr 
Hs assets and status as a HNWI were clarified. Ive no reason to think the call didnt take 
place or the note was inaccurate. I thought it likely Mr H gave those valuations and was 
comfortable considering himself a HNWI, despite the warnings, in order to get round what 
the adviser described as suitability hoops to invest in Dolphin. 
On balance, while the transfer of the L policy wasnt necessarily suitable, I thought Mr H 
wouldve gone ahead regardless of what F2 had said, in order to invest in Dolphin like his 
wife. 
The transfer of the two DC schemes
The two DC schemes were invested in balanced lifestyle funds. The larger of the two held 
with B, from a previous employers scheme, came with protected tax-free cash of more than 
25%. But both the DC pensions were valued at below the £30,000 threshold for regulated 
advice. So Mr H couldve left his DB scheme with L where it was and transferred the two DC 
policies himself to a SIPP without advice. 
But I dont think Mr H wouldve done that even if it had been suggested, due to the size of 
the investment he intended to make in Dolphin. Even if he included his cash savings, the 
combined value of the two DC schemes wouldve fallen short of the £64,285 Dolphin loan 
note Mr H purchased, which was still less than the 100% investment he originally intended. 
Investment advice 
F2 wrote to Mr H post transfer in January 2019 about the investment strategy within his 
SIPP, and its records show his wife called F2 to say the adviser appeared to want to stray 
beyond their brief. F2 was told Mr H didnt require ongoing advice as they had only been 
engaged to facilitate the pension transfers, to enable the investment in Dolphin. Mr H could 
manage the investment side without advice and wanted to bring the relationship with F2 to 
an end. 
But while F2 says it had only been engaged to facilitate the transfers and Mr H didnt want 
them to do more, they still had various regulatory responsibilities such as: 
COBS 2.1 says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
their clients best interests. 
COBS 9.2 says a firm needs to obtain the necessary information regarding their clients 
knowledge and experience in the investment field, financial situation and objectives. 
PRIN 6 says a firm must pay due regard to their customers interests and treat them 
fairly. 
PRIN 9 says a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. 
I was satisfied F2 didnt introduce or recommended Dolphin to Mr H, that seems to have 
come about through a third party (Mr B) and Mr Hs wife. Mr H was warned the regulator and 
the adviser themselves considered it to be a high-risk investment, and similar schemes had 
resulted in clients losing all their money. And he was warned the illiquid, collective nature meant such investments were difficult to value or sell. I think these warnings were 
reasonably clear in the suitability report, but I think Mr H was set on investing in Dolphin 
regardless of what F2 said. Mr H told F2 he didnt want ongoing advice from F2 (and 
wouldnt pay for it). But F2 did recommend Mr H balance the risk in his portfolio by investing 
the remainder in the DFM with 7IM, and it seems Mr H followed this advice. 
While Mr Hs attitude to risk was assessed as 7/10, I wasnt sure the 7IM balanced portfolio, 
(which included UK and worldwide equities), was low enough risk to adequately balance the 
high-risk nature of the Dolphin investment.
In summary I thought Mr H would always have transferred his DB pension with L to a SIPP 
in order to invest in Dolphin, even if F2 advised against it and adequate risk warnings had 
been given. He could have transferred the two DC schemes without advice, but I didnt think 
hed have done that, as they wouldnt be sufficient for the investment in Dolphin he wanted 
to make. So my provisional decision was I didnt uphold the complaint about the advice to 
transfer, as I thought Mr H wouldve gone ahead regardless.
But Mr H having an investment adviser, didnt absolve F2 from its regulatory responsibilities 
to consider the investments Mr H intended to make. For this reason I provisionally decided to 
uphold the complaint in part, in relation to the advice to invest in the DFM with 7IM, as I 
didnt think the composition of the proposed balanced fund sufficiently reduced the risk of his 
portfolio overall. 
To put things right I said F2 should carry out a loss calculation comparing the performance of 
the 7IM investment with a benchmark. I thought the appropriate benchmark was 50/50 the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index and return from fixed rate bonds, to 
reflect that Mr H was prepared to accept some risk with his investments. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded to the provisional decision although neither accepted it.
Mr H through his representatives made the following points (in summary);
Mr Hs comment about taking a punt on Dolphin had been taken out of context;
Hed been guided towards the investment in Dolphin, he wouldnt have invested 
against advice;
There was no reluctance on the advisers part, and the specific risks hadnt been 
brought to his attention;
It was inconsistent that there was only one call recording, and just notes of the other 
calls;
The HNWI form was part of the process, rather than a serious assessment of his 
status as an investor, and Mr H hadnt ticked any of the boxes, hed just signed the 
form;
Mr H thinks F2 was motivated by the fee, and clarified F2 offered to discount their 
fee, it wasnt as a result of any negotiation on his part;
The majority of contact had been with the advisers assistant Ms W;
The CMC requested a three-way discussion with the investigator and Mr H to restate 
their case, although they have no new information or evidence to disclose. 
F2 made the following points:
F2 hadnt been engaged or paid to provide investment advice to Mr H, and didnt 
facilitate the investment that did take place;F2s letter of 20 November 2018 was prepared by an assistant rather than the 
adviser Mr S himself, and shouldnt have referred to the provision of investment 
advice;
The cash used to invest in Dolphin and 7IM was transferred from Mr Hs SIPP 
without the involvement of F2;
F2 had no direct contact with 7IM, and received no payment from 7IM or the SIPP 
provider regarding Mr Hs investment;
F2s fee was reduced to reflect that investment advice hadnt been given;
The ombudsman should consider whether the SIPP provider carried out sufficient 
due diligence on Mr Hs investments;
Mr H was a new client, and from the outset had wanted to combine three pensions 
and transfer to a SIPP to invest 100% in Dolphin;
F2 relied on Mr Hs representations that he was a HNWI, and didnt need these 
pensions to fund his retirement; 
F2 assessed Mr H as having an attitude to risk of 7/10 which Mr H hasnt challenged, 
and it was originally even more aggressive; 
After the deduction of TFC, Mr Hs investments in Dolphin and 7IM are only 37.5% of 
his overall fund;
The 7IM investment was assessed as 5/10 so does balance his risk;
F2 had advised Mr H against investing 100% in Dolphin as he originally wished, as 
they didnt think the SIPP provider would allow more than 50% in one investment;
Due weight should be given to evidence provided in relation to the 
involvement/influence of a third-party firm/individual who advised Mr Hs wife in 
relation to her investment in Dolphin;
F2 provided an example of another decision where it had recommended the 
consumer invest in Dolphin and 7IM which hadnt been upheld, asking for 
consistency. 
So the case has been returned to me to issue the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their submissions. But having reviewed everything again, I still 
believe Mr Hs complaint should be upheld in part, in line with my provisional findings. 
In response to the points made by both parties Id say the following:
I dont believe a telephone discussion between Mr H, his representative and our 
investigator is necessary for me to reach a fair determination on this complaint. The 
case has been with this service since January 2021, so both parties have had 
adequate time to state their positions and provide any evidence or arguments in 
response to the investigators assessment or my provisional decision. I see no 
reason to delay matters further, particularly as Mr Hs representatives have confirmed 
theres nothing new to disclose.
This complaint is about F2, so Ive made no findings in relation to any other firm or 
individual;
Mr H has confirmed he wasnt cold-called but was introduced to F2 by his other 
adviser (Mr B) who signed Mr Hs confirmation of identity document, but isnt authorised to give pension transfer advice. Mr H may well have intended to 
consolidate his three pensions, take TFC and then invest 100% in Dolphin. But F2 
was obliged to provide regulated financial advice in the clients best interests, not 
merely implement Mr Hs instructions;
Mr H had other pension provision, and said he was intending to rely on his other 
assets rather than these pensions for his retirement. But the value and guaranteed 
benefits of the L plan meant Mr H needed regulated financial advice, he couldnt 
facilitate the transfers without it;
The FCA expects an adviser to consider the suitability of the underlying investments 
rather than assessing the transfer in isolation. This applied even if Mr H had already 
decided what he intended to do, and had engaged another adviser for that purpose;
Call recordings are a more comprehensive record than notes, as they include the full 
conversation rather than a summary, plus the added context of tone of voice etc. But 
recording every call may not be practical. So I draw no negative inference that the 
only available recording is the later call on 30 October 2018, in which the adviser 
explained his recommendations, as this appears to be the most important call.
Having listened to that call, I was satisfied Mr H said, without being led or prompted, 
that hed never relied on these pensions, he was aware the investment in Dolphin 
may not go right, but hed feel happier taking a a punt on it anyway. He didnt ask 
F2 whether Dolphin was suitable for him or express any doubts or concerns. 
Mr H queried his own status as a HNWI, and the valuations of his assets which F2 
relied on, and said he just signed the HNWI form. But Mr Hs signature on the form 
confirmed that statement B (that he held net personal assets to the value of 
£250,000) was accurate, even if he didnt complete the form himself. Mr H may not 
consider himself a sophisticated or experienced investor, and his wife has said the 
vintage cars are a hobby rather than a business. But Mr H hasnt said the valuations 
quoted were false, so it seems he did self-certify as a NHWI. 
The adviser didnt recommend against the transfer, but he did explain the risks of 
non-mainstream pooled investments like Dolphin, particularly that the collective 
nature means they may prove hard to sell or value. And the report did say neither the 
firm of the adviser personally felt comfortable recommending such investments as 
clients had lost all their money. The risks were set out in the suitability report, HNWI 
form and during the telephone discussion. 
Mr H told our investigator he suspected F2 knew Dolphin was a dead duck all 
along. I took a different impression from listening to the call with the adviser who said 
he was familiar with UK property investments, rather than overseas. But hed since 
reviewed the aims of the scheme, met some of the directors and was aware of tax 
advantages offered by the German government, and overall appeared impressed 
with the Dolphin scheme. So while F2 thought the investment was risky, it was 
satisfied Mr H had other pension provision, so had the capacity to use these funds to 
take a chance on Dolphin. I dont think F2 enabled Mr H to transfer to invest in 
Dolphin knowing it would fail. 
Mr H told our investigator he wanted to invest in Dolphin as his wife had previously 
done so successfully, so I think hed have gone ahead anyway. Which he couldve 
done once hed received regulated financial advice even if the advice was not to 
transfer. The evidence suggests Mr Hs original intention was to invest the whole of his 
consolidated pension savings in Dolphin after the deduction of fees and TFC, and F2 
advised against this (as it believed the SIPP provider wouldnt accept more than 
50%). F2s letter of 13 August 2018, and the suitability letter of 20 November 2018 
set out the proposal for 50/50 split between Dolphin and 7IM balanced portfolio. 
F2 says the suitability letter of 20 November 2018 was produced on behalf of the 
adviser and shouldnt have contained investment advice. But F2 also maintains that 
recommending Mr H balance his risk by investing half in a DFM arrangement was 
suitable as the 7IM balanced funds rating of 5/10 reduced Mr Hs risk. Particularly as 
the investment only represented 37.5% of his overall funds. I accept Mr H didnt want 
investment advice and had an investment adviser for that purpose. Its not unusual 
for an adviser to have help in producing such analysis. But the adviser delivered the 
advice to Mr H in the call and has signed the letter so is responsible for it. I set out in 
the provisional decision why transfer advice must include an assessment of the 
investments the consumer intends to make. 
In summary, having reviewed all the evidence again, Im satisfied Mr H had decided to 
consolidate and transfer pension savings he wasnt relying on for his retirement to invest in 
Dolphin, following his wifes positive experience. The investment in Dolphin is effectively 
worthless, but Im not holding F2 responsible for that. 
F2 suggested Mr H split his investment equally between Dolphin and a balanced portfolio 
(risk rated 5) with 7IM. This did reduce the overall risk from his original intention of 100% in 
Dolphin. But the composition of the 7IM balanced portfolio which includes UK and global 
equities, emerging markets, property and commodities may not have reduced the risk 
sufficiently, which is why I suggested the redress should compare its performance with a 
benchmark. I selected the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index to reflect 
that Mr H was prepared to take some risk with these funds. 
Putting things right
After the deduction of fees and TFC Mr H invested £64,285 in the 7IM balanced portfolio. I 
think a fair and reasonable outcome would be to carry out a loss calculation comparing the 
performance of Mr Hs 7IM portfolio as set out below. 
. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must F2 do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, F2 must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
F2 should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, F2 should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If F2 is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr H didnt challenge the assumption in the provisional decision hes likely to be a 
higher rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
40%. However, if Mr H would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 30%.
F2 should provide its loss calculation to Mr H in a clear and simple format. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
The 
proportion of 
the Morgan 
Lloyd SIPP 
invested 
with 7IM Still exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Note: Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If F2 deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. F2 should give Mr H a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, F2 should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
For this proportion of his SIPP, Mr H wanted capital growth with a small risk to his 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, Y 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr H's risk profile for this element of  his investment, was in between, 
in the sense that he was prepared to take a small level of risk to balance the higher 
risk element of his portfolio. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr H 
into that position. It does not mean that Mr H would have invested 50% of his money 
in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H 
could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. F2 Capital Ventures LLP should put things right as set out above.
our text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman