DRN-3651541
The complaint
Mr R has complained that he was unable to open a bank account with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr R applied for a bank account online on 25 May 2021 but was unable to complete the 
application. This was because applications for standard bank accounts required a copy of a 
photo ID, such as a passport or a driving licence for verification purposes, which Mr R does 
not have.
HSBC then sent Mr R a number of text messages. Firstly it asked him to continue the 
process by uploading the necessary ID documents, then it told him that the documents he 
had uploaded were unclear and then that it couldnt accept the address documents that he 
had provided. Mr R says he didnt receive all of these texts.
Mr R says he then rang HSBC on 26 July 2021 to find out the status of his application, 
although HSBC cannot find a record of the phone call. Mr R says he was told to visit a 
branch that day to present in person the unclear documents that wouldnt upload. He says 
he wasnt told that hed need to show a passport.
Mr R went into a branch where he was told that he couldnt apply for a standard bank 
account as he was unable to provide acceptable ID. However, he was informed that he could 
apply for a basic bank account instead. He was advised to re-apply online and then to return 
to branch with a copy of a benefits letter and council tax bill.
On 3 August 2021 Mr R then did go online to apply for a basic bank account. HSBC sent him 
a text message the following day reminding him to upload proof of ID and address.
Mr R says he became frustrated with the process and so cancelled the application on 10 
August 2021 and decided to approach a different bank for an account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs website sets out that, for ID purposes for a standard bank account, it accepts 
passports or driving licences. So, as Mr R was unable to upload a photo ID and the 
documents he did upload were unclear, its understandable that he wasnt able to complete 
the first application as he had not demonstrated that he met the criteria.
Mr R says that, when he called HSBC, he was only told to take ID to the branch and it was 
not mentioned that it had to be photo ID such as a passport or driving licence. As already 
mentioned, HSBC cant find any record of the call and so Im unable to verify exactly what 
was said. Its possible that HSBC could have been clearer about what documentation was 
required, in which case it might have come to light at that point that Mr R was unable to 
qualify for a standard bank account but could instead apply for a basic bank account. But 
HSBC was only aware that Mr R was having trouble uploading documentation and that the 
documents he had unloaded where unclear as there appeared to be an address mis-match. 
So, on balance, I think that HSBC acted fairly at that time in explaining what Mr R needed to 
do to complete his current application for a standard bank account. 
I understand that Mr R was uncomfortable about being asked to go into a branch during the 
pandemic. However, HSBC was responding to the issue of Mr R being unable to upload his 
documentation online. As such, advising that he could complete the application by taking 
them to a branch instead was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr R says that when he went to the branch he was initially seen by a receptionist who was 
rude to him. Although he says that the conduct of the receptionist formed part of his original 
complaint, I cant see that it did. When Mr R first complained to HSBC, he simply said that he 
was rejected for the bank account at the reception. He has also not made it clear why he 
feels the receptionist was rude. All he has said to this service is that he was asked for a 
passport and told that he couldnt open the account without one. He has also said that he 
was turned away by the reception when he explained that he hadnt been told to bring a 
passport. But he has further said that he was directed to a phone cubicle where he was able 
to speak to another member of staff. I appreciate that Mr R feels he was dealt with rudely. 
But, overall, I dont have enough evidence to be able to conclude that he was treated unfairly 
by branch staff.
Due to Covid restrictions, the branch advisers were not seeing customers face to face and 
were not processing new applications in branch. The receptionist put Mr R on the phone to a 
colleague who said he was sitting downstairs. HSBC has provided a copy of a contact note 
showing that Mr R was told he could re-apply online for a basic bank account and given 
advice on how to do so. He would then need to bring his benefits letter in as ID and his 
council tax bill in as address verification. The note says that Mr R was aware that he would 
need to return to the branch with the documents as no documents were taken that day.
From Mr Rs point of view, he feels that he was turned away without being able to open an 
account as promised. As our investigator has said, if it wasnt for the Covid restrictions in 
place at the time, its likely that Mr R would have been able to set the basic bank account up 
when he visited the branch. I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr R to be told he had to apply 
again online. But, given the circumstances at the time, it was reasonable that HSBC had 
suspended the processing of new applications in branch.
HSBC has provided a screenshot of the application process that Mr R completed on 3 
August 2021. Although HSBCs records show the application as being agreed, Mr R seems 
to have been under the impression that the process had once again stalled at the ID stage  
because he says that when you reach the end of the application it doesnt give you the 
option of using a benefits letter as a form of ID.
I appreciate that he was later sent a text asking him to upload documents, which might have 
been slightly confusing. But I think Mr R should have been aware from his recent visit to 
branch that he needed to re-visit to present his benefits letter and his council tax bill to 
enable completion of the application process. 
Ive thought about everything that Mr R has said. But, on balance, I dont think that HSBC 
acted unfairly in the way it dealt with his bank account applications. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman