DRN-2945840
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded a payment that he doesnt think was 
sent correctly.
What happened
Mr S made an international payment for £4,750 from his Santander account to a company 
overseas on 14 August 2020. He had been introduced to the company by a representative in 
this country. And he explains that he had made a similar payment before to this company 
without any problems and received the goods he had ordered. This time the company told 
him that it hadnt received the money and he raised this with Santander. He is unhappy that 
it wont refund his money as he hasnt had the goods and the company says it hadnt had his 
money.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It had received confirmation from the 
overseas bank involved that the money had been paid to the beneficiary. There was nothing 
further it could do as it had followed Mr S instructions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr S had told 
him that he made a similar payment to the same company in June 2020 and had received 
the goods. He had used a website to view the goods and went to a branch of Santander to 
make the payment. Mr S was confident that this was a legitimate company and Santander 
had asked him questions about the payment before he made it and would have reasonably 
been convinced that this was a genuine payment.
As Mr S had made the payment by a bank transfer it was difficult for Santander to recover it. 
Santander had provided evidence of contacting the overseas bank on a number of 
occasions. And to show it hadnt received confirmation from that the money had been 
credited on 17 August 2020 until October 2020. It was told that the beneficiary didnt want to 
refund the money and so Santander couldnt do anything else to get it back. Our investigator 
suggested that Mr S contact the representative and company as this was a dispute between 
them.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he had seen a similar 
situation in the media where the money was refunded. And he thought that should apply 
here. He hadnt had the goods and had lost this money. Santander had previously told him it 
didnt know what had happened to his money. And he now suspected that the banks 
involved had colluded after he had contacted this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S authorised this payment to a company he had dealt with before. There werent grounds 
to think that this wasnt a legitimate company and Mr S has explained that it sent him goods 
before. I dont see that Santander made any error in not asking him anything more about the 
nature of the payment before it was sent.
There was a delay before Santander had any information about what happened to this 
money. And this was at a time when the company abroad said it hadnt received it. So, I can 
see why Mr S thought that the error was in the banking system and the payment hadnt been 
dealt with correctly. That hadnt been confirmed before Mr S contacted this service and so I 
can understand why he is sceptical about since being told that the payment was made 
correctly. But Ive seen the messages Santander sent to track this payment and to ask for it 
to be returned. And that it didnt receive confirmation that the money had been credited 
correctly until 14 October 2020. It wasnt in control of the speed of the response and the 
beneficiary didnt agree to return the money. 
I know Mr S has referred to seeing cases similar to his where money has been refunded. I 
am only looking here at the circumstances of his complaint. And there are no further 
protections for a payment sent in this way compared to those that could be possible for a 
payment say sent using a card. So, there was nothing else further that Santander could do. 
And Im afraid this is now fairly a dispute between Mr S and the company he was dealing 
with. I understand hes been given all the payment reference details to take this up. Although 
until now hes seen this as down to Santander and not him to follow up. I know he will be 
disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman