DRN-2765878
The complaint
Mr F complains he lost out due to delays in processing his investment instructions for his 
pension by Inter-UK Financial Services Limited (Inter). 
What happened
Mr F said he submitted two trade requests to Inter on 9 and 12 March 2020 in relation to his 
pension scheme. The first was actioned the same day but delayed by the pension provider. 
But Inter didnt submit the 12 March request until much later. But it gave him the impression 
that it had been actioned on 12 March. This caused further delay and loss and he wanted 
compensation. He said he calculated that in total he had lost around £92,000. He had found 
the process very stressful.
Inter said it wouldnt uphold the complaint. It said the pension provider was responsible for 
the delays and Mr F should direct his complaint to it.
The Investigator said that Mr F had a qualifying recognised overseas pension scheme 
(QROPS). The investments for the pension scheme were held in an offshore bond. To 
initiate a trade Mr F needed to instruct Inter who then passed the instruction to the QROPS 
operator/pension provider who then issued instruction to the Bond provider. The timeline of 
events is as follows.
Monday 9 March 2020 Mr F issued a dealing instruction to Inter which is passed onto the 
pension provider on the same day at 12.55pm. This was an instruction to buy £55,000 worth 
of units in an exchange traded fund (ETF).
Tuesday 10 March Inter are sent an email from the Pension Provider at 4.25pm alerting it to 
a problem with the trade submitted the previous day Inter say this wasnt received until 
16.15 the following day 11 March.
Wednesday 11 March the pension provider informed Inter that they needed a change of 
adviser form completed. This was confirmed in an email from the pension provider at 4.12 
pm.
Thursday 12 March Mr F submits another trading instruction (at 10.40am). This is to sell two 
funds and buy one ETF with the proceeds from the sales. Inter didnt pass on the new trade 
instruction to the pension provider at that time. 
Mr F is advised by Inter that the pension provider has not processed the first instruction 
issued on 9 March and are asking for a change of adviser form. 
The pension provider emailed at 11.14 am with a link to the form that needed to be 
completed re change of adviser. Inter emailed Mr F to relay the request at 16.18 pm.
Friday 13 March The change of adviser form is signed by Mr F and sent to Inter who passes 
it on at 9.27 am to the pension provider.
Tuesday 17 March the pension provider again asks for the change of adviser form (at 7.22 
am) and Inter replies (at 11.01am) that this has already been provided and the pension 
provider replies at 4.01pm. Mr F chased for an update as he had not seen either trade 
request had been processed. He also says he has found he submitted a change of adviser 
form in May 2018 and managed to trade in September 2018. Inter then passed this onto the 
pension provider and asked them to complete both trades immediately.
Wednesday 18 March Mr F follows up direct with the pension provider and then gets 
confirmation the first trade (from 9 March) had been processed and submitted to the 
investment bond provider. 
The pension provider confirms at 15.20 pm that the 9 March instruction has been actioned. 
Later it became clear they didnt have the second order. The second order was then sent to 
the pension provider. 
Thursday 19 March at 9.30am the pension provider places the sales on the investment 
provider trading system and the trades were authorised at 10.30 and 11.07 respectively and 
sent onto the bond provider platform at 12 noon.  The investment providers cut off time is 
10am for same day net asset value. As the order was not received by it until 10am the NAV 
was 20 March.
Monday 23 March - The order contract was confirmed on 23 March with a net asset value 
date on Friday 20 March.
Tuesday 24 March the proceeds of sale were received at 11am and trades placed on the 
same day for purchases.
Inter said that the fund sale had a dealing point of 9am each day and up to two days to 
settle. The purchase could only then proceed. The purchase was of an ETF whose price 
varied through the day.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In summary I said the following.
I first needed to consider if Inter did anything wrong. Having considered the papers and the 
timeline of events, I thought it did.
I said that because on 11 March the pension provider told Inter it needed a change of 
adviser form and Inter informed Mr F of that on 12 March when he called to chase and 
submit a further trade. However, I think Inter might reasonably have checked its records and 
noted that this had already been done in 2018.
I noted that it didnt charge Mr F for its service in passing on the trades but would apply an 
hourly rate for more substantial work. I think it had a duty to Mr F to handle such trades 
competently and in accordance what could be reasonable expected of a professional in 
those circumstance. I noted also inter had confirmed it was an intermediary and had terms of 
business in place with the pension provider to place business with them. I thought that 
should have meant it was aware of the relationship between it and the pension provider and 
the existence of the relevant forms required between it and the pension provider to allow the 
trades to proceed. So, I think Inter made a mistake in not challenging the pension provider 
when it requested a form that had already been submitted and relied on in the past in 2018. 
Had it done so there wouldnt have been further delay providing the form.
I also thought it made a mistake in not passing on the trade request which Mr F submitted on 
12 March. While I understood its reasoning that there was no point in doing that, as it would 
be rejected, I didnt agree. I said that because if it had sent it on, even if the pension provider 
refused to act, it wouldve been in receipt of it. That wouldve meant there was no delay once the trading issues had been resolved and it couldve been actioned immediately. This is what 
happened for the trade that was submitted on 9 March. By deciding not to send it on it 
unfortunately introduced delay into the process that didnt need to be there.
I needed to consider the impact of the mistakes in terms of any financial loss and distress 
and inconvenience.
Financial loss
Its clear the delay had a financial impact. The law would say that where there is a mistake 
Mr F should be put back in the position Mr F wouldve been in but for the mistake. That 
means the value of Mr Fs trades need to be corrected to the values that shouldve applied 
and further he would need to be compensated for the lost investment return from the time of 
the mistake until final compensation payment is made, or the missing units are added back.
I needed to decide when the trades wouldve taken place. 
The 9 March trade was a buy order for an ETF.
The 12 March trade was for the sale of two funds followed by a reinvestment of the proceeds 
in to the same ETF bought with the 9 March order.
I thought the 11 March request for a new adviser form would have been rebutted so that the 
9 March trade wasnt delayed any further. That would also mean the 12 March trade would 
have been submitted promptly, as there was no reason for any delay.
I considered when I thought each trade wouldve taken place. In doing so I considered the 
points that Inter made about time periods for dealing with requests. I was also conscious that 
there are several steps in each trade starting with the action by Mr F, then Inter, the pension 
provider and then the bond holder which gives instructions for the relevant fund manager or 
ETF (and these are subject to cut off times and settlement periods).
In relation to the Monday 9 March trade, Inter submitted this on the day it was received. This 
resulted in a reply from the pension provider, which it says it received on Wednesday 11 
March, requesting the adviser form. I think that if Inter had pushed back confirming that it 
already had the required paperwork there was no reason that the pension provider would not 
have actioned the trade request on the 11 March or at the latest 12 March. On balance I 
thought it wouldve been actioned on 12 March (in terms of sending instructions to the bond 
holder) and finalised by 13 March by the bond holder. As this was an instruction to purchase 
an ETF that was traded throughout the day it was reasonable to assume the ETF wouldve 
been purchased with the relevant mid- price for the day on 13 March.
I said that because the following week when the pension provider again requested the 
provider form on 17 March, Inter pushed back the same day and the trade went ahead with 
the trade on the following day which was 18 March. Applying these timescales to the 
previous week wouldve meant it pushed back on 11 and the pension provider took action on 
12 allowing the bond holder to take action by 13 March at the latest.
I next needed to consider the position for the 12 March trade. 
I note Inters comments about reasonable periods of time to process a request and that they 
didnt have a service level agreement with Mr F regarding these. However, I also needed to 
have regard to how quickly Inter were dealing with requests at that time. I dont think it is 
reasonable to assume it would take a longer period when the evidence shows it was acting 
more quickly. The events show that on Monday 9 it was able to react very quickly and did what was needed. With respect to the 12 March request I can see that Inter is dealing with 
the adviser form requested on 11 March and discusses this with Mr F when he calls to chase 
and submit the further trade. As it was able to deal with these issues on 12 March, I see no 
reason to assume that it wouldnt have been able to pass on the 12 March request to the 
pension provider on the same day it was received (12 March) particularly as Mr F made 
contact with the instruction at 10.40am.
The Pension provider would then need to upload instructions on its platform to issue 
instructions to the bond holder. Based on what happened at the time I think it is reasonable 
to assume this was done on 13 March so that the Bond holder received instructions on 13 
March in time for it to sell the two funds on 13 March.
I thought the bond holder wouldve processed the instruction on 13 March so that the two 
funds were sold on 13 March with the proceeds received two days later on Tuesday 17 
March and the final purchase of the ETF completed by reference to prices on 17 March.
Mr Fs loss should be measured as the difference in the actual number of units purchased in 
the ETF and the number of units he wouldve received had the trades proceeded as set out 
above.
I have considered that the reason for part of the delay was error by the pension provider. 
However, the interaction between the request for information they already had, and Inters 
failure to point this out, means both contributed to the delay. I thought it was reasonable to 
assume the parties were equally responsible and to direct that Inter should pay half of the 
actual loss.
I assumed that Mr F remained invested in the same ETF that he purchased in the 9 and 12 
March orders. On that basis he can be compensated by Inter buying the number of 
additional units required to add to Mr Fs holding (if any) to put him in the position he 
wouldve been in but for the mistake. However, this assumes that this is legally possible and 
there has been no change in investments. If that isnt legally possible or Mr F has changed 
his investments his loss will need to be quantified in pounds sterling, adjusted to reflect the 
lost investment return until the date of payment and may need to be paid outside the 
QROPS.
I considered an award for the distress and inconvenience. Such an award is intended to 
reflect the impact on Mr F not to punish Inter. I could understand that the delay was stressful 
given the COVID related changes in the market at that time. I think the proposed award of 
£200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Before I issue my final decision, I asked: -
1. that both parties confirm they agree the detail of the timeline presented.
2. Inter to confirm whether it is legally possible to add further units to the ETF within the 
QROPS or whether the payment will need to be made direct to Mr F in cash outside 
the QROPS. (This service cannot advise on whether it is possible to correct the loss 
by adding to the number of units within the QROPS without any adverse impact.)
3. Mr F to confirm that he is still invested in the ETF purchased at the time. If not, he will 
need to provide details of the investment changes made from then to the current 
time, in order that Inter can calculate the lost investment return from the mistake to 
the date of actual payment.
Mr F said he agreed with my timeline and summary of events and the conclusion reached. He still held the ETF fund in question. But he said payment of compensation to the QROPS 
would adversely affect his Lifetime Allowance and create a large tax charge. Had the delay 
not happened the normal growth of the units would not have affected the Lifetime Allowance. 
It was therefore necessary that the cash was paid to him direct. He calculated that his loss 
payable by Inter was about £55,000.
Inter made no further comments but queried the arrangements for payment of 
compensation.
The parties have since agreed the amount of compensation that is payable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In the light of the replies from Inter and Mr F I have not changed my mind. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr F back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for the error. 
In the light of my proposed decision the parties have agreed the amount of compensation 
payable to reflect the number of units in the ETF which Mr F should have obtained and the 
amount of cash that would have remained following the various buy and sell orders.
The parties have accepted that the compensation payment cannot be paid into the QROPS 
and so payment will been made directly to Mr F.
Inter has confirmed that no interest is paid on cash balances held in Mr Fs QROPS account, 
so I have not made an award for any loss of interest on the amount of the cash payment.
As Mr F has confirmed that it isnt possible to pay the compensation into his QROPS it will 
instead be paid to him subject to an adjustment for tax. Mr F has confirmed he is not UK 
resident for tax purposes and the rate of tax he would pay would be lower. Inter has 
accepted that the compensation will therefore be adjusted to reflect that amount.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should pay Mr F: -
1. £ 27,586.15 and 
2.  such amount as would be required to purchase 241.76 units in the ETF that Mr F 
invested in at the time, by reference to the mid-point value on the day before actual 
payment to Mr F and 
3. £200 for distress and inconvenience.
As a payment into Mr Fs pension isnt possible the compensation should be paid directly to 
Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for future income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. If Mr F hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 
25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 7% in the context in which he will reside. So, 
making a notional reduction of 5.25% overall from the loss should adequately reflects this.
Inter shall make payment to Mr F within 30 days of this service notifying Inter that Mr F has 
accepted this decision. If it fails to make payment within that timescale the cash sum of 
£27,586.15 and the compensation of £200 shall be increased by 8% per annum simple from 
the date of my decision to the date of actual payment. No similar award of interest is needed 
for the value of the number of units in the ETF as this amount is linked to the value from time 
to time of those units on the day before actual payment to Mr F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman