DRN-2115752
The complaint
Mr P complains that certain underwriters at the Society of Lloyds (the underwriters) have 
unfairly declined his professional indemnity claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Mr P took out his dental malpractice policy through his broker on 26 January 2018, with a 
retroactive date of 29 April 2009. On his application form completed in January 2018, he said 
he was not aware of any circumstances which may lead to a claim, complaint or allegation of 
negligence.
The policy terms and conditions state:
EXCLUSIONS RELATING TO ALL INSURING CLAUSES
We will not make any payment under this policy:
15. Circumstances known at inception
Arising directly or indirectly out of any:
a. circumstances or occurrences which may give rise to a claim under this 
Policy
of which the insured was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, prior to the 
inception date, whether notified to any other insurer or indemnity provider or not.
Mr P received notification of a clinical negligence claim from his patients solicitor in 
August 2018, which is after the policys inception. However, I have seen evidence of 
correspondence sent between Mr P and the patient dating back to 27 September 2017, 
where negligence had been alleged and the patient was threatening legal action:
You have already admitted that the treatments have failed and that you are 
accepting responsibilityGiven the position unless a figure is agreed for a settlement 
of this case by 17 October then this will be placed in the hands of my solicitor with all 
future correspondence coming from my legal team and ultimately their costs being 
borne by you.
Mr P responded to this letter on 13 October 2017 addressing the alleged negligence, so Im 
satisfied he had received the patients correspondence, and that he ought reasonably to 
have been aware of circumstances that may have given rise to a claim at the point he took 
out the policy. 
Given that these circumstances/discussions of intent to claim occurred before the policys 
inception in January 2018, Im satisfied that it is caught by Exclusion 15 outlined above 
irrespective of the fact that the majority of the treatment complained about occurred within 
the retroactive period of the policy. I therefore do not think the underwriters have acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim.
Mr P has said he was not made aware of the exclusion, and that his broker said his claim 
would be covered. However, this decision is concerned solely with the acts of the 
underwriters in declining the claim, and whether they can reasonably rely on the exclusion 
clause. Should Mr P wish to complain about the way in which the policy was sold, such 
concerns would need to be directed to the broker that sold him the policy, as I am unable to 
hold the underwriters responsible for any potential mis-selling of the policy.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, but in the circumstances Im 
satisfied that the underwriters have acted fairly, and I will not be directing them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman