DRN-1730357
The complaint
Mr S says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S had three loans with MYJAR. I've summarised some information MYJAR provided 
about the loans below.
Loan 
no. Start date End date Amount
1 26/08/2017 30/11/2017 £400
2 29/03/2018 24/05/2018 £250
3 17/07/2018 02/08/2018 £100
 An adjudicator considered Mr S's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Before lending to Mr S, MYJAR asked him to provide some information about his income 
and expenditure. Mr S said he earned between £1,200 and £1,300 per month. He declared 
no monthly expenditure for loan 1 and monthly expenditure of £100 (for rent) for loans 2 and 
3. Mr S told MYJAR he was living with his parents, so I don't think there's anything inherently 
usual about having little to no housing costs.
MYJAR also carried out a credit check. It doesn't appear to have obtained a full credit history 
but did check for certain information. I can see from the credit report that MYJAR was aware 
Mr S had opened several new accounts in the three months before he first approached it. 
But I don't think that, on its own, means MYJAR was wrong to lend to
Mr S. On balance, MYJAR's credit report doesn't suggest that the loans were unaffordable 
for Mr S or that he was in any significant financial difficulty. To be clear, MYJAR wasn't 
required to check Mr S's full credit history.
Overall, I don't think MYJAR acted unfairly by lending to Mr S. The information Mr S gave to 
MYJAR suggested he could afford these loans. The loans were not taken up in quick succession and the loans decreased in size from £400 to £100. So there's also nothing in 
the pattern of borrowing which ought to have alerted MYJAR to any potential financial 
difficulty.
For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr S's complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman