DRN-3849089
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy.
References to AXA includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs S phoned AXA on 28 February 2022 to make a claim because her car was damaged 
while it was parked. Later that day, she received an email from AXAs approved garage to 
say the repair work was underway, but the car was still with her. Mrs S says she phoned the 
garage and was told it didnt have her car on its books and it didnt have the capacity to take 
it on.
On 1 March 2022 Mrs S phoned AXA to complain and requested a courtesy car, but she 
says she was told there were no repairers or courtesy cars available at that time. AXA tried 
to arrange a hire car for Mrs S until it could be swapped for a courtesy car by the repair 
garage or until her car was fixed. Mrs S phoned the hire company but was told they had no 
cars available due to the Covid 19 pandemic and other world events.
Mrs S phoned AXA on several occasions to express her dissatisfaction with the handling of 
her claim. Mrs S was also unhappy because she was being held at fault for the accident.
On 3 March 2022 AXA arranged for another garage in its approved repairer network to take 
on the repair job. However, the garage couldnt provide a courtesy car at the time. On the 
same day, Mrs S informed AXA that she had located a branch of the hire company with a 
hire car available and AXA agreed. However, she phoned AXA the following day and 
complained as there were no cars available at the branch either.
On 17 March 2022, Mrs S phoned AXA for an update and informed the call handler that a 
local garage had been able to open the car door, that had been damaged in the incident, 
and so she could drive it. She said she had also obtained an estimate from the garage to do 
the repairs. And on 22 March 2022 AXAs engineers authorised for Mrs Ss garage to carry 
out the repair work. These were completed roughly a month later.
Mrs Ss garage offered her a manual courtesy car to use while her car was being repaired. 
But Mrs S wasnt happy and phoned AXA because her preference was for an automatic car.
AXA wrote to Mrs S with its final response to her complaints and acknowledged that there 
had been unnecessary delays in dealing with her claim. It said there were a number of 
issues regarding the supply of a courtesy car and it accepted the service it provided hadnt 
been acceptable. It issued a cheque for £400 to recognise the problems it caused. However, 
in the cover email, that its final response was attached to, it stated it had issued a payment 
of £500. AXA has said this was an error.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and said because of all the phone calls she made to AXA, 
she ran out of credit towards the middle of March 2022. She was unhappy AXA sent her a 
cheque for £400 and she said it should pay the £500 compensation as stated in its email to 
her. However, she said she didnt think £500 was enough compensation for the aggravation 
she had been through. Mrs S later told us she wanted no less than £1,000 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, they said the £500 AXA 
mentioned in its cover email was a mistype and they thought £400 was sufficient 
compensation for the inconvenience Mrs S faced. They said the delays with the repairs and 
the provision of a courtesy car are issues affecting the UK repair market. They didnt think 
there was anything more AXA could have done.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
says she did most of the leg work on her claim. She also says AXA made errors and she 
pays for it to do a job, but it didnt do anything for her. Mrs S says the fault lies with AXA if it 
wrote £500 in error. And she thinks it shows its negligent customer care. Mrs S also says 
AXA did not have the courtesy to contact her and she wasted a lot of time and money on 
phone calls to it. She says she would like no less than £800 in compensation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, I was asked to decide. I issued my provisional 
decision on 21 November 2022 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not currently 
minded to uphold it.
Firstly, Id like to express my condolences to Mrs S, Im sorry to hear her mother passed 
away recently. When we spoke, she explained that while dealing with this claim she had also 
been caring for her mother. I understand this has been a difficult period for her and her 
family and I appreciate the importance of this complaint to her. However, I must consider 
things impartially.
I think it might be helpful to explain, when a claim is recorded as a fault claim, this doesnt 
necessarily speak to who was responsible for what happened. An insurer will usually record 
a claim as fault when it isnt able to recover its costs- and this might apply to instances 
where its insured wasnt the party that caused the accident. Usually when an accident 
occurs which involves a third party, if they are found to have caused the accident, then the 
insurer would look to recover its costs from the third partys insurer. However, in this case, 
the third partys details werent known, so AXA hasnt been able to recover its outlay. I can 
see in AXAs letter on 28 February 2022 it explained this to Mrs S. So, in the circumstances, 
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to record this as a fault claim.
AXA acknowledges there were errors in the service it provided Mrs S. While in its email it 
stated it would pay £500 in compensation, looking at the letter it had attached to the email 
and its system notes, which all say it would pay £400, Im satisfied £500 was written in error. 
I appreciate Mrs S feels AXA should pay £500 as stated in the email, but mistakes happen, 
and I dont think it needs to pay that amount.
Rather, it needs to fairly compensate Mrs S for whats happened. To do this, it must address 
any practical and emotional impact its errors had on her. Mrs S doesnt think £400 is 
reasonable compensation for the trouble AXAs errors caused her. Ive thought about all 
thats happened and the impact on her and I find the £400 it paid is fair in the circumstances. 
I know this isnt what Mrs S hoped for, but Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ss policy say, You will be provided with use of a standard 
courtesy car while Your Insured Car is undergoing repair, subject to the repair being carried 
out by Your Insurers approved repairer. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I think its fair and reasonable that AXA is able to rely on it. 
And when it comes to progressing claims, we expect insurers to do so within a reasonable 
time- depending on the circumstances.
When Mrs S made her claim, AXAs approved repairers were facing a backlog and couldnt 
carry out the repair work immediately. As Mrs Ss car wasnt driveable, I can understand why 
this was frustrating for her, but I think the repairers backlog was something outside AXAs 
control. In any event, AXAs notes show that it had found another garage to do the repairs, 
within a few days of the claim being made. So, Im satisfied AXA tried to progress the claim 
as much as it could.
Mrs S chose to use her own garage and obtained an estimate for the repair work. The 
garage sent an email with its estimated costs to AXA on 7 March 2022, which is a week after 
Mrs S first made her claim. In all, it took AXA around two weeks from when it received the 
repair estimate to authorise it so that the work could begin. In the circumstances, I think it 
took too long to authorise the repairs, so I think its right AXA compensated Mrs S for this.
Once AXA authorised the repairs, Mrs Ss garage would have been responsible for making 
arrangements and completing the repair work and not AXA. I can see it was another month 
before Mrs Ss car was repaired but I dont think AXA can be held responsible for this.
As Mrs S chose to use her own repairer and not an AXA approved one, under the policy she 
wouldnt have been entitled to a courtesy car. But I think its clear that at the start of the 
claim she wanted to use AXAs repairers and only decided to use her own garage after 
AXAs repairers said they had a backlog and couldnt provide a courtesy car. As the policy 
provides for a courtesy car, (even though I note a courtesy car would have only been 
provided when the car was in for repairs and not necessarily immediately after the accident) 
I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to compensate Mrs S for this.
There is no dispute that AXA had issues in sourcing a replacement car. It told Mrs S early on 
that there was a shortage of cars available in the UK at the time. And for this reason, I think 
the issues it faced in sourcing a courtesy car or even a hire car were out of its control due to 
a shortage of cars nationally. Nevertheless, I think its fair it compensated her as Mrs S was 
without a car for longer than she should have been due to AXAs delay in authorising the 
repair estimate. So, Ive considered the length of time Mrs S was without a car to use.
Its not clear whether Mrs Ss car door had been fixed by the time the garage sent the 
estimates to AXA. AXAs notes show Mrs S phoned it for an update on 17 March 2022 and 
during this call she informed the call handler that the garage owner had been able to repair 
the car door so she could drive it. Even if the garage door wasnt repaired until 17 March 
2022, I find at most Mrs S would have been without a car for two and a half weeks- from the 
date of the accident.
We normally consider it reasonable for an insurer to pay £10 per day for the period in which 
its errors have meant a consumer had not had use of their car. So, even if we had applied 
this, the £400 AXA offered is more than we would have suggested, so I think its offer is 
reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs S used her car to travel to work so being without it was inconvenient. 
Though it would not have been ideal, Mrs S was able to mitigate the impact as she relied on 
a colleague to take her to and from work. I think this would have come with its own 
challenges. But I think the £400 AXA paid covers this.
AXAs notes show Mrs S wasnt happy she was offered a manual car by her garage. As she chose to use her own repairer and not an AXA approved one, under the policy she wouldnt 
have been entitled to a courtesy car while her car was being repaired. She was offered one 
by the repair garage, but I dont think AXA was responsible for the type of car it gave her. 
Even if she had been entitled to a courtesy car, AXA said the policy provided for a standard 
class A car, which it says is usually manual. So, I dont think it needs to compensate for this.
Considering Mrs S had tried to locate a hire car herself when AXA couldnt find one and she 
had made arrangements for her car to be temporarily repaired, I can understand why she 
feels she did a lot of the work to resolve the issues. I also agree AXA gave incorrect 
information at the start of the claim. Mrs S says she spent a lot of time on the phone to AXA, 
and I can see from its notes she did phone on several occasions. I think AXA could have 
done more to keep Mrs S up to date on the progress of her claim. And as I said above, there 
were some delays in AXAs handling of the claim. I appreciate this will have made what was 
already a challenging time even more difficult. However, Im satisfied £400 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the inconvenience AXA caused and for any financial impact its 
errors had on Mrs S. In light of this, I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Mrs S didnt accept my provisional decision and has said she isnt willing to accept anything 
less than £800.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information I havent already considered, I see no 
reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. I understand this isnt the 
answer Mrs S was hoping for, but Im satisfied the £400 AXA paid is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman