DRN-4254352
The complaint
Mr J complains that Wakam Insurance Company (WIC) has unfairly declined a claim he 
made against his home insurance, after his door awnings were damaged in high winds.
What happened
Mr J had a home insurance policy underwritten by WIC. In mid-January 2023 Mr J said his 
door canopies were damaged by high winds. He looked to get them repaired but he said 
after a thorough inspection had been made he was told the canopies were irreparable and 
needed to be replaced. Mr J made a claim for this against his home insurance policy. He 
said his insurer sent someone to inspect the damage but that the inspection was only 
cursory. Mr J said WIC declined his claim saying the damage was caused by poor 
installation and not the high winds. He complained to WIC.
WIC said after Mr J made his claim at the end of January 2023, they asked him to provide 
details about his claim. They also carried out an inspection visit in mid-February 2023. The 
inspection said the canopies had been poorly installed, and the damage wasnt caused by 
storm conditions. 
Mr J said the inspection had only lasted a couple of minutes and they hadnt gone up a 
ladder to carry out a proper inspection. He also showed that the country around this time had 
been hit by rain and gales as a big beast vortex had hit. 
Our investigator said although not defined in Mr Js policy, the weather reports around his 
property at the time didnt show storm conditions. So, WIC hadnt acted unfairly in applying 
the terms of the policy.
Mr J didnt agree, he said the weather conditions had been the cause of the damage as 
theyd been strong enough to bring down a tree into his garden. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr J, while I empathise with the position he finds 
himself in, for me to say WIC must do something different I must first be satisfied they 
declined his claim unfairly.  I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be asking 
them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a valid 
claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. Insurable 
events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might 
happen. Only damage caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will 
be covered. If the damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer 
must pay the claim unless theyre able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
Having looked at everything, I dont think Mr J has shown that the damage was most likely 
caused by a one-off insured event. 
Mr J had buildings and contents insurance cover with WIC.  There was the optional extras of  
Accidental Damage, Home Emergency and Legal Expenses cover but Mr J didnt have these 
included in his policy schedule. So, Ive considered the policy he had. Buildings insurance 
covered:
the main structure of the home and;  fixtures and fittings attached"
As Id consider the door canopies as fixtures and fittings, Ive looked at the cover provided by 
the buildings insurance. There is an insured peril under the policy for "Storm, Flood or 
Weight of Snow" So damage caused by a storm is an insurable event under Mr Js policy. 
The policy doesnt define what constitutes a storm. But WIC in their final response letter said 
theyd used The Association of British Insurers (ABl] definition of a storm being  Wind 
speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots [55mph]. I can see the Beaufort Wind Scale defines a 
storm as being 55 to 63mph. So dont I think its unreasonable for WIC to consider a storm as 
being gusts of wind 55mph or greater. 
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, Ive three questions:
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was
caused?
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a
storm?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes to be able to conclude that a storm claim 
was declined unfairly. Where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim 
the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies.  So Ive considered the weather reports 
around Mr Js property at the time the damage was caused to see if the high winds reached 
gusts of 55mph or more.
For the week commencing 11 January 2023, the maximum peak gust reached was 47mph 
(13 January 2023). I can understand Mr Js frustration as there were strong winds but 47mph 
is defined as a strong gale and not a storm. 
For Mr J to make a successful claim for storm damage to his property, he needs to show 
there was a storm at the time, and that the storm was the dominant cause of the damage. 
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think Mr J can show this. As the answer to the first 
question, is no as there isnt any evidence of a storm event happening. So I dont need to 
consider the other parts of the test.
I know Mr J isnt happy about the inspection WIC carried out. But as outlined above the onus 
is on the policyholder to show that their claim is covered by the policy. As Mr J hasnt been 
able to show that there has been an insured event I dont consider WIC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way theyve handled or declined his claim.My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman