DRN-3198617
The complaint
Miss L, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited lent to her 
irresponsibly in September 2016.
What happened
Miss L approached Everyday Lending for a loan and on 9 September 2016 one of their 
representatives spoke to Miss L and an appointment was made for Monday
12 September 2016 at 5pm. Although it is not clear from the notes we have received from 
Everyday Lending, it looks likely to have been a face-to-face appointment.
After the Everyday Lending checks had been made which included obtaining details of her 
recorded credit commitments, reviewing payslips, reviewing copies of her most recent bank 
statements and asking Miss L for explanations about some of the transactions (income and 
outgoings) on her bank statements, the loan was approved. Copies of those documents 
have been sent to us.
The loan was for £2,500, payable over 36 months and the repayment was scheduled to be 
about £187 each month. Miss L repaid it in December 2016 having unexpectedly come into 
some money from a prize draw of some kind.
Miss L complained to Everyday Lending in November 2020 and it issued its final response 
letter in January 2021 in which it gave reasons as to why it did not think it had lent to her 
irresponsibly. Miss L referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in March 2021.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that Everyday Lending ought 
not to have lent to Miss L. Everyday Lending disagreed and gave reasons as to why, all of 
which I have reviewed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued a provisional decision on 
18 February 2022. That is duplicated here in smaller type to differentiate it. The reply date 
was 4 March 2022.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, the points I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether 
Everyday Lending completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss L would 
be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown that Miss L 
wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Everyday Lending did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss L and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss L undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. 
That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal income without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other payments she had a contractual or 
statutory obligation to make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her 
financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to approach the loan application from the 
perspective of the likelihood of getting its money back. Everyday Lending had to consider the impact 
of the loan repayments on Miss L. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances 
of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could 
look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. As Miss L took one loan from Everyday Lending and she 
was a new customer, then the last bullet point above does not apply.
I have the advantage of financial information, records, copy bank statements and two sets of credit 
histories about Miss L. One set is the credit search results Everyday Lending obtained in 
September 2016 before approving the loan. The other set is a more recent personal credit file report 
sent to us by Miss L which covers the lending period. And Miss L had shown to Everyday Lending 
some bank statements dated from August 2016, which I have seen and the hand-written annotations 
on them. I have reviewed them all.
The regulations covering responsible lending for regulated firms do not require that it had every 
detailed piece of information about the person approaching it for a loan before approving it. And 
looking at the information Everyday Lending did have about Miss Ls situation and finances, I have 
decided, on current evidence, the checks carried out by Everyday Lending were proportionate. And 
I would not have expected it to have done more than it did before lending £2,500 to a Miss L as a new 
customer with repayments of £187 a month. Even accounting for the length of loan term, which I have 
done, still I think it did enough.
I am aware that the loan application was approved after a pre-arranged appointment was made a few 
days after Miss L originally approached Everyday Lending. This is likely where all the questions were 
asked of her and all the documents such as payslips and copy bank statements were produced by 
Miss L. This presents an overall picture of a considered application, and not a rushed one all done on-
line, as can be the case with other types of lending such as payday loans.
Everyday Lending does not agree with our adjudicators view (to uphold the complaint) and has sent 
more figures to demonstrate why it thinks Miss L could afford the loan. Overall, I have seen several 
sets of calculations and Ive focussed on the figures in the notes and assessments which look to have been done (and relied on) in 2016 and not more recently. These Everyday Lending notes show that it 
used the £1,996.67 figure as her income. Its notes were as follows (original capitals retained):
***INCOME*** USED YTD FROM MAIN JOB PAYSLIP £1142.97 2ND JOB YTD FROM 
PAYSLIIP 25.28 - MINUS STUDENT LOAN £7 = £18.28 CB £89.63 WORKING AND CHILD 
TAX CREDIT WEEKLY PAYMENT ON BANK STAT £172.24 = £745.79 TOTAL = £1996.67
Everyday Lending had obtained payslips for Miss Ls main job and another income stream from her 
same employer and for the same kind of work. I note that Everyday Lending did not include as her 
regular income the £41 a week she received from a third party as maintenance for her child which 
would have amounted to about £178 a month. I agree with that approach. And still I have taken it into 
account as being some additional income over and above the calculations carried out at the time the 
loan was approved.
Miss Ls outgoings for other credit (without the payday loan) amounted to about £874 a month. She 
had no credit cards that were over or near their limits and two had zero balances and obviously not 
used. Including the nursery fees for the child (around £209 a month) that would have taken her 
expenditure up to around £1,083 monthly. I have reviewed Miss Ls copy bank statements (the sets 
she showed to Everyday Lending in 2016) and I can see that with other outgoings such as 
insurances, TV, phones and other items it was going to be just about manageable to afford £187 each 
month - ultimately still affordable. The item making the difference was the repayment of the one 
outstanding payday loan and Miss L was obtaining this loan to assist her with that.
Miss Ls situation as a mother of one child, working and living at home with her parents is detail which 
Ive factored into my deliberations. It was not going to be a situation for Miss L where, if her income 
did not stretch to pay all the outgoings, she was likely to end up in a position where she might have 
been unable to repay priority bills such as rent and utilities, because she was at home with her 
parents. And Everyday Lending knew that.
There are many notes on the files sent to us by Everyday Lending which show that not only did it do 
extensive research on her credit commitments, but it also asked her very specific questions about the 
reason for the loan, the transactions on her bank statements and exactly what her financial situation 
was likely to be after shed used the Everyday Lending capital to paydown a credit card, a payday 
loan and reduce or extinguish a mail order account. In fact, Everyday Lending paid the credit card 
balance directly and after making enquiries, was not able to pay off the mail order account directly 
and so Miss L had informed Everyday Lending (and it had noted it) she would do that when in receipt 
of funds. Miss L received the £2,500 net of the credit card balance.
Everyday Loans had noticed the one payday loan outstanding and had reviewed that and decided 
that she had not shown reliance on that lending company and was planning to pay off that loan. 
Miss L appears to have informed Everyday Lending that shed pay that off using the money from this 
loan. It was for £250, but the repayment was around £500.
That situation may not have been ideal but the other credit commitments Miss L had were relatively 
regular credit agreements for required items such as a bed, a car, and a loan to pay for some family 
home improvements (and pay off some debts). There are notes on the file which indicated that Miss L 
had explained she had not understood the nature of the payday loan and its potential impact on her 
being able to obtain another regular loan.
Everyday Lending had noted the facts in detail and had assessed the situation and the points I have 
had to consider carefully is whether that shows a responsible or an irresponsible lender.
This case has been finely balanced, and has led me to carefully weigh up all the details, including the 
figures and calculations as well as the details shown from the Everyday Lending files which 
demonstrate that it obtained as much information as would be expected, if not more, to ascertain the 
exact position of Miss L in September 2016, and her plans to use the capital it would lend her and 
how she could repay it.
Having thought very carefully, on current evidence and Id say in these very specific circumstances 
relating to Miss L, I have provisionally decided that I do not know what more Everyday Lending could have done or could have asked about Miss Ls life and finances before approving the loan. So, 
applying my fair and reasonable remit, I am planning not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
I realise Miss L may be disappointed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss L, her representative or Everyday Lending has replied to my provisional 
decision. 
Without more, then I see no reason to alter the outcome following my provisional findings.
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint for the same reasons as those given in 
my provisional decision which are repeated here and form part of this final determination. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman