DRN-2201348
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that OneSavings Bank plc (trading as Kent Reliance) acted unfairly 
when it added fees to their mortgage account when they were in arrears. They also complain 
that their property was unfairly taken into possession.
What happened
A jurisdiction decision was issued in April 2020. It set out that this service could consider Mrs 
and Mr Ms complaint about the fees charged on their mortgage and the action taken by their 
lender from April 2013 onwards.
The fees added to Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage, from April 2013 onwards, included Law of 
Property Act (LPA) receiver costs, possession fees, solicitors costs, buildings insurance and 
possession order enforcement costs.
Mrs and Mr Ms property was taken into possession on 20 June 2013. The process to take 
possession of the property began before April 2013. In line with the jurisdiction decision, this 
service can only consider issues from April 2013 onwards. 
From the information available it appears that for each fee added to the mortgage balance a 
letter was sent to Mrs and Mr M confirming the amount added and why the cost had been 
incurred. These fees were also set out in a statement dated 5 July 2017.
A quarterly arrears statement dated 9 April 2013 shows that the arrears were £27,599. On 
the 8 July 2013 the quarterly arrears' statement set out that the arrears had increased again.
Mrs and Mr Ms property was taken into possession on 20 June 2013.
No further fees added to the mortgage account from 1 October 2013.
On the 5 July 2017 the closing balance outstanding was £35,389.39. The lender then 
decided to write off the shortfall balance.
In 2019 Mrs and Mr M complained to Kent Reliance. They said they felt they had been 
treated unfairly and that the arrears fees and charges applied to their account had added to 
their financial difficulties.
Kent Reliance did not uphold their complaint. It accepted that nearly £9,200 of fees and 
charges had been added to their mortgage account. But it noted that in July 2017 it had 
written off the £35,389.39 closing balance outstanding. In view of this it said it didnt think it 
would be fair to expect it to refund any fees or charges that had been applied to Mrs and 
Mr Ms account.
Mrs and Mr M were not satisfied with Kent Reliances response and brought their complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
sympathetic to Mrs and Mr Ms position but having reviewed the fees added to their 
mortgage from April 2013 onwards he was of the view that they had been added correctly 
and in-line with the lenders tariff of charges.
He explained that Mrs and Mr M were required to have buildings insurance in place as a 
condition of their mortgage. As there was nothing to show that Mrs and Mr M had arranged 
building insurance, he said he was satisfied that Kent Reliance was entitled to arrange 
appropriate cover and apply the cost to Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage balance.
In relation to the LPA charges and solicitors costs; he explained that these are variable 
costs and depend on the amount of work involved. He noted that each time costs were 
incurred a letter was sent to Mrs and Mr M confirming the cost and this was then added to 
their mortgage in-line with their mortgage terms and conditions. 
Mrs and Mr M also complained that they felt their property had unfairly been taken into 
possession. Our investigator explained that he could only consider events from April 2013 
onwards. He noted that legal action had started before this date. As this was the case, he 
said he couldnt comment on earlier events. But he said based on what he had seen from 
April 2013 onwards, he didnt think Kent Reliance had acted unfairly in seeking possession 
of the property.
He noted that on the 24 May 2013 it wrote to Mrs and Mr M to say that as the arrears were 
continuing to increase solicitors had been instructed to seek possession of the property. The 
monthly payment due at the time was £1,008.48. Mrs and Mr M were advised that unless the 
arrears were cleared in full action would continue.
As the arrears were not cleared the property was then taken into possession on 20 June 
2013.
Mrs and Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. They said that they felt the payment on 5 
June 2013 of £880  showed that I could now afford the monthly mortgage as I had started 
working again  the arrears should have been capitalized and spread over the remaining 
term of the loan, something I requested at the time. The lender did not consider this and 
continued to repossess, which was a breach of TCF.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mrs and Mr Ms position. But in order to uphold their complaint I would 
need to find that the lender acted incorrectly or treated them unfairly.
The arrears charges and possession costs that were added to their mortgage account 
totalled nearly £9,200. But the outstanding closing balance on their mortgage of over 
£35,380 was written off in 2017. In view of this I cant reasonably find that the lender should 
be required to refund any of the charges that were incurred from April 2013 onwards.
Mrs and Mr M have also said that they dont feel the lender should have taken possession of 
their property in June 2013 as they had made an £880 payment towards the mortgage. They 
say they feel this shows that they would have been able to afford the mortgage going 
forward if the arrears had been capitalised.I have very carefully considered this point. The mortgage statement dated July 2017 sets out 
all the transactions since the mortgage was taken out in 2006.
In May 2012 a payment was made for £1,675.23. The next payment made to the account 
was on 3 May 2013 for £660 and a final payment of £880 was made on 5 June 2013.
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr M feel that the payment they made in June 2013 showed that 
they could afford the mortgage payments going forward. But I dont think the lender could 
reasonably have been expected to capitalise the arrears when the contractual monthly 
payments had not been made for over a year and the level of arrears was increasing. 
I note Mrs and Mr M have previously said they believe the property would not have been 
taken into possession if the arrears fees and charges had not been added to their account. I 
cant reasonably agree with this as, even without the fees added, there was a high level of 
arrears on their mortgage account and numerous missed payments. I must also take into 
account that their lender was entitled, under the terms and conditions of their mortgage, to 
apply arrears and possession charges in-line with its tariff of charges.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mrs and Mr M were hoping for, but I cant 
reasonably find that the fees and charges added to their mortgage account from April 2013 
onwards were unfairly applied. And, based on the information I have seen, I dont think their 
lender acted incorrectly when it took possession of their property in view of the mortgage 
payment history and the level of arrears.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I cannot uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman