DRN-1791710
The complaint
Mr G and Miss R have complained about the service they received from British Gas 
Insurance Limited (BG) when repairs were needed to their boiler.
What happened
Mr G and Miss R have a Homecare policy with BG which provides cover for their boiler, 
controls and central heating. 
On 16 October 2019, Miss R contacted BG to add annual services to their policy. This was 
arranged, and Miss R asked for a service visit to take place on 6 December because she 
wasnt at work that day.
 
On 26 October Miss R had to call BG because of an uncontrollable water leak from the 
boiler. A BG engineer attended the same day as it was an emergency. He repaired the water 
leak, but he also identified an issue with the central heating not working. A second visit was 
arranged for the following day, when this problem was fixed.
Miss R then had to call BG again as the boiler was losing pressure. There appears to have 
been some rescheduling of this appointment, but an engineer attended on 1 November 2019 
and did a repair. Whilst he was there, he also undertook the annual service visit which had 
originally been booked for 6 December, but which had been cancelled when the emergency 
visit was booked. Miss R says BG told her this was due to a system error. 
Miss R complains that she should only have had to have taken two days off work - one for 
the initial leak repair and one for the annual service visit. Instead she says she had to take 
two unnecessary days off - one for the second repair on 27 October, and one wasted days 
annual leave for the cancelled annual service on 6 December, as she wasnt able to 
reinstate work on that day. 
Miss R has also complained about the lengthy periods of time she had to spend on the 
phone on a number of occasions waiting to get through to somebody at BG, and she was 
then given incorrect information about the appointments.
Miss R has also complained that BG sent her a text message intended for another customer 
as it referenced a postcode that wasnt hers. Shes said that when she raised this with a BG 
agent, she wasnt believed, and further information as to the other customer was divulged to 
her.
Miss R has also complained that BG took five months to investigate the complaint she 
raised, during which time its telephone records had been deleted as it says they are now 
only held for three months for GDPR reasons .
BG has explained that engineers who attend emergency call outs are only there to fix the 
emergency issue (in this case to stop the water leak on 26 October) and if there is any 
additional work or repair required an alternative appointment must be made. An appointment 
to fix the central heating fault was arranged for the following day.
BG has said it was difficult to prove whether the initial water leak, the central heating 
problem, and the loss of pressure were connected. Although it believes that they werent 
linked, Miss R has only paid one excess charge for all three appointments.
 
BG has apologised for the waiting times that Miss R had in trying to get through to BG, and 
put this down to a high demand for its services when the waiting times could be longer than 
it would expect. Its also acknowledged that Miss R was given incorrect information when 
she spoke to BGs customer service agents and has said that feedback will be provided.
BG has also apologised for what it described as a system error in sending Miss R a text 
message intended for another customer which quoted the other customers post code. 
BG has offered Mr G and Miss R £40 compensation for the poor service it acknowledges 
they received from BGs customer service agents and for the delay in responding to Miss Rs 
complaint.
Mr G and Miss R werent satisfied with BGs offer of £40 compensation and have said that 
they consider £200 to be more appropriate. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt consider that £40 compensation was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. As Mr G and Miss R dont agree with our investigators view, theyve asked 
that their complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr G and Miss Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
I should start by saying that I fully acknowledge how frustrating and inconvenient it can be 
when things go wrong, and when it takes a lot of time to arrange with a business for them to 
be put right. 
But awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended to fine or punish a 
business. This is the job of the businesss regulator. We can award fair compensation that's 
a proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) has had on a 
particular customer. 
If we decide a business has acted unfairly, we consider the impact on their customer. For us 
to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's action or inaction 
has been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the inconvenience 
and upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations. A delay in having a call answered is just such 
an example. We're unlikely to tell a business to pay compensation in these circumstances 
unless what the business did or failed to do had a significant impact on a particular 
customer.
Miss R says her calls to BG took up a lot of time, and that she was provided with misleading 
information by BGs customer service agents. She also complains about the time she had to 
take off work. Her annoyance and frustration is quite understandable.But at the same time we, as a service, have to be even handed and listen to what a business 
says too, and consider whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. BG 
has explained the background to the visits it made to Mr G and Miss R. Its acknowledged 
that its service to them wasnt satisfactory, has apologised, and has offered £40 
compensation for the inconvenience that they suffered.
Having taken into account what both Miss R and BG have said, my view is that the repair to 
the leak that BG undertook on 26 October was clearly an emergency, and its reasonable for 
Miss R to have taken time off work to deal with this. I also accept that another repair, to the 
central heating, was identified as being necessary, and I dont consider this was BGs fault. I 
therefore dont consider that BG can be held responsible for the fact that Miss R had to take 
another day off work on 27 October. 
Due to the fall in water pressure, another repair visit was required. BGs doesnt consider this 
to be connected to the previous matters it dealt with. Im not in a position to disagree with 
that. I cant therefore say that the need for the visit on 1 November was due to some fault on 
BGs part. I therefore dont consider that BG is responsible for Miss Rs inconvenience in 
having to take further time off work. 
BG says it isnt responsible for customers having to take time off work when an engineer has 
to visit but says it does its best to accommodate the most convenient date, which is what 
happened in this case. An appointment was made to fix the water pressure problem on 1 
November which was a date chosen by Miss R. When it realised that the 6th December 
appointment had been cancelled due to a system error, BG departed from its usual practice, 
and the engineer who attended to fix this also carried out the annual service. This saved 
Miss R from having to take a further day off work. I think Miss R is likely to have known by at 
least 1 November that the visit on 6 December was no longer necessary, so she had some 
five weeks notice of this. I dont consider its BGs fault that Miss R wasnt able to cancel the 
day off work shed arranged.
Although Miss R had to be present on three occasions for BG engineer visits, and although 
BG is of the opinion that the three repairs werent connected, Miss R has only been charged 
one excess.
So apart from the fact that BGs customer service agents were difficult to contact, and gave 
misleading information, which BG has accepted, I dont consider that BG has acted 
unreasonably or that the service that Miss R has complained about is likely to have had such 
a significant or lasting impact upon her as to justify more compensation than BG has already 
offered. I consider that compensation of £40 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Ive considered Mr G and Miss Rs complaint about the data breach. As neither of them were 
the victims of that breach as it was not their information that was shared, I dont consider that 
there is any loss here for which compensation is appropriate. 
I havent addressed the complaint that Mr G and Miss R make about how their complaint to 
BG was handled. BG has said that its offer of £40 compensation was to include this 
complaint. However Im afraid Im not able to address this complaint, as complaints about 
how a complaint is handled are not matters that are regulated by The Financial Ombudsman 
Service, and therefore fall outside its jurisdiction.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr G and Miss Rs complaint against 
British Gas Insurance Limited, and I dont require it to do anything more than to pay Mr G 
and Miss R the £40 compensation its already offered unless its already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman