DRN-2263286
The complaint
Ms M is complaining about the amount PSA Finance UK Limited is asking her to pay after 
she handed her car back at the end of a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In October 2016 Ms M entered into a three year hire purchase agreement through PSA to 
acquire a car. In August 2019 PSA wrote to Ms M to say the agreement was coming to an 
end and gave her three options:
1. Pay the final payment to buy and keep the car;
2. Part-exchange the car and buy a new one; or
3. Hand the car back.
In September 2019 Ms M contacted PSA and paid the final balance and asked PSA to get its 
agent  who I shall call MA  to come and collect the car. Ms M says she contacted MA a 
number of times in September 2019 to arrange for it to collect the car, but she says it 
continually told her PSA had said shed not paid the final balance.
Ms M says she later spoke with PSA who explained it hadnt contacted MA because the 
agreement hadnt ended. She was unhappy because she says this delay meant she had to 
pay for a MOT on the car as it was due at the beginning of October 2019.
MA later collected the car and carried out an inspection. Ms M says the inspector didnt 
highlight any issues with it apart from the fact it didnt have a log book. However, PSA later 
contacted her to say she owed it £942 in charges which were broken up as follows:
Service history log book wasnt completed - £200
Cost of obtaining a replacement V5C log book - £100 
Both front alloys scratched - £130
Front bumper scratched - £120
Left door mirror scratched - £40
Dent in left quarter panel - £152
Paint damage to the right front door - £152
PSA also said she owed £162.49 as a final payment towards an insurance policy she took 
out and funded through the finance agreement.
Ms M didnt think this was fair and disputed shed caused most of this damage. She says the 
inspector didnt highlight any of these issues, nor was she given a copy of the damage 
report. She accepted there was some damage to the alloy wheels, but she didnt think it was 
fair she had to pay the full cost and offered to pay 50% of it. She also queried why she was 
being asked to pay such a high sum for the insurance policy she took out as shed assumed 
the monthly payments shed been making would have paid that off. Ms M also asked PSA to 
keep the car until this matter was resolved, but PSA wasnt willing to do so and sold the car.
PSA later agreed to waive the £100 charge for the log book and 25% of the outstanding 
balance.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said PSA was entitled to charge for 
damage thats considered to be more than fair wear and tear. She set out the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) has produced industry guidance to help determine 
what fair wear and tear is and what a finance company can charge for when a car is 
returned. And she thought it was fair to follow this in this case.
The investigator said shed reviewed the photographs and thought the majority of the 
charges were fair. She was satisfied they were taken at the time of the inspection and were 
likely to reflect the condition of the car at the time. She didnt think the charge for the scuff to 
the door mirror was fair as it hadnt penetrated the base material or was more than 15mm. 
But she was also conscious PSA had reduced the charge by 40% and waived the charge for 
the replacement log book. And she said this was more than what PSA had waived. So she 
didnt think PSA had to waive anything further.
The investigator also said it was a term of the contract that the car couldnt be returned 
needing a MOT within two months. So she said Ms M would have had to get a MOT even if 
MA had collected the car sooner.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
Ms M doesnt think PSA is treating her fairly because she disputes she caused most of the 
damage PSA says was there. She doesnt dispute the damage to the alloy wheels, but she 
thinks the amount PSA is charging is unfair.
Under the terms of the finance agreement, Ms M is responsible for any damage thats 
considered to be more than fair wear and tear. My role in this decision is to assess whether it 
was fair for PSA to charge for the damage it says was present when Ms M handed the car 
back.
Ms M has set out that the car went to the manufacturer dealership a few days before it was 
inspected by MA. And she says the dealership said there wasnt a mark on the car apart 
from the alloys. She also says theres nothing to support that the photos are of her car apart 
from one photo of the car shows her house in the background.
I acknowledge Ms M disputes the majority of the damage was present as she says MAs 
inspector didnt highlight any of the damage at the time. Shes also unhappy she wasnt 
given a copy of the damage report. But Im satisfied the car was inspected on the same day 
MA collected the car. I also think its most likely the photographs the inspector took of the car 
are a fair reflection of its condition when it was returned to her. Ms M acknowledges one of 
the photos show her house, although I appreciate she disputes the rest of the photos. I dont 
think its likely the inspector would take photos at different times. So I have to say its most 
likely those photos were all taken at the time the car was collected.I appreciate Ms M is unhappy the inspector didnt ask her to stay with the car while he 
inspected the car or gave her a copy of the damage report. The report was electronically 
created so the inspector wouldnt have been able to give her a hard copy. I note Ms M 
electronically signed the report and I think she could have reasonably reviewed its content 
before doing so. So I cant reasonably say shes been treated unfairly in this respect.
Ive now thought about whether PSA has acted fairly in charging what it did. In assessing 
whether damage would be considered more than fair wear and tear its common practice to 
review this against guidelines set out by the BVRLA. Ive considered each area of damage 
separately.
Service history
Theres no dispute the service history log book wasnt completed. Im conscious that the 
terms of the hire purchase set out the following:
It is your [Ms Ms] responsibility to ensure that the repairer stamps the vehicles service 
book each time the vehicle is serviced (the service book must be returned to us on the day 
of collection if the vehicle is recovered by us for any reason).
So Ms M contractually agreed to return the car with a full service history. That means it 
should have had a stamped service book. I think its likely this could have had an impact on 
the resale value of the car. So I dont think its unreasonable PSA has charged for this. And I 
think £200 is a fair charge.
Alloy wheels
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on the allow wheels are 
acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable.
Ive looked at the damage to both alloy wheels and I think there is significant damage to both 
alloy wheels theres significant damage to the wheel rims in excess of 50mm. Further to this, 
both wheels have damage to the wheel spokes. So Im satisfied this damage was beyond 
fair wear and tear and PSA was entitled to charge for this.
Ms M thinks the amount PSA has charged is unfair. But, I do think the damage was 
extensive. And I havent seen anything to suggest the amount PSA has charged isnt a fair 
reflection of the amount it would cost to fix the damage.
Dents to the left quarter panel
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken.
Chips within dents are not acceptable.
Dents on the roof or the swage line of any panel are not acceptable.
Its seems to me there are three separate dents on the left quarter panel. Two of the dents 
also more than minor. So I dont think its unfair for PSA to consider this damage to be more 
than fair wear and tear. And I also think the amount its charged to fix the three dents is fair. Scratches to front bumper, door mirror and right front door
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out.
A maximum of four surface scratches on one panel is acceptable
There are a number of scratches to the front bumper all of which are more than 100mm. 
While I dont think they are deep scratches, I dont think its unfair for PSA to say it considers 
them to be more than fair wear and tear given their sizes. I also think it would require more 
than a minor repair to fix these issues. So I dont think the amount PSA has charged is an 
unfair reflection of the amount it would cost to fix the damage.
Ive looked at photographs of the front door and there are multiple scratches across the door. 
But in particular there is an extensive scratch down the edge of the door. Given this, I think it 
was also fair for PSA to say all of this would be considered more than fair wear and tear. 
And I also think the amount its charged to fix these issues is fair too.
However I agree with the investigator that I think the scratch to the door mirror is minor. Its 
less than 25mm and hasnt exposed the primer or bare metal. So I dont think it was fair for 
PSA to charge for this. That said, Im also conscious it has already chosen to wave the £100 
charge for the missing log book which I think it was fairly entitled to charge. Its also waived a 
further £210.50 in charges. In total its waived £310.50 in charges. I think this more than 
offsets it unfairly charging for the damage to the mirror. So I dont think it needs to waive 
anything further. 
Ms M is unhappy PSA sold the car as she thinks it should have retained it while this dispute 
was ongoing. But I dont think its unreasonable it did so. The car would have diminished in 
value for the length of time this matter was ongoing. So I dont think its unreasonable PSA 
wanted to sell the car as soon as possible.
I note Ms M is unhappy PSA took longer than shed like to collect the car and she says this 
meant she had to pay for the car to have a MOT. But the terms of the contract set out Ms M 
will ensure that before delivery of the vehicle to us [PSA] the vehicle does not require an 
MOT test for at least two months following the date when the final payment is due.
So Ms M was always going to have to arrange for the car to have a MOT whether it was 
collected in September or October 2019. So I dont think shes lost out as a result of this.
Finally Ive thought about Ms Ms comments that she was unhappy to learn she still had to 
pay £162.49 towards an insurance policy she took out and funded through the finance 
agreement. She thought the payments would have been equally spread out over the monthly 
repayments. 
I can appreciate why shes unhappy to have learnt she still owed a large amount of this 
premium. I can see the finance agreement she signed sets out the insurance policy is 
funded by 36 payments of £9.23 and one payment of £162.49. I would have expected this to 
have been explained to Ms M before she took out the finance agreement and I dont know if 
it was or not. But I dont think Ms M has specifically lost out as a result of this because she 
was always going to have to pay this amount  albeit with increased monthly repayments. I 
acknowledge this might have been upsetting to learn she still owed this. But, given PSA has already waived £310.50 in charges that I think it was entitled to charge, I dont think it needs 
to do anything further to put this right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think PSA Finance UK 
Limiteds decision to waive £310.50 in charges is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So I dont think it needs to do anything further to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman