DRN-4461470
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim made 
under their home insurance policy and about delays in the handling of the claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs B and Mr B have a home insurance policy, which covers their home and its contents. 
They made a claim in July 2022 after noticing damage to their garage. 
Ageas appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim. They visited Mrs B and Mr B in August 
2022. They then commissioned further site investigations  which were carried out in 
November 2022.
Mrs B and Mr B still hadnt had Ageas decision on the claim by June 2023 and so they 
made a complaint to Ageas.
Ageas final response to that complaint  in August 2023  explained that the delays were 
due to complexities in the claim. 
Ageas said theyd had to look into a previous claim relating to the garage, made in 2014, to a 
previous insurer. 
Theyd then had to consider whether Mrs B and Mr B had fully disclosed details of that claim 
when they bought their policy with Ageas. 
And theyd had to carry out investigations to establish what the design and build of the 
garage was and why the damage was occurring.
They also confirmed that they would be declining the claim. Their reasons appear to have 
been that the design was faulty and that the previous insurers hadnt dealt with the (already 
existing) issues in 2014.
In the meantime, Mrs B and Mr B had brought their complaint to us. They were unhappy with 
the delays in Ageas coming to a decision on the claim  and with the decision to decline it.
Our investigator looked into it and thought the decision to decline the claim was justifiable on 
the basis that the garage was poorly designed. 
But she thought the delays werent justifiable. And nor was Ageas failure to explain the 
position to Mrs B and Mr B, so that they might decide whether  and how  to ask their 
previous insurer to look into things again. 
For that reason, she said Ageas should pay Mrs B and Mr B £800 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset theyd experienced as a result of Ageas errors and omissions.
Mrs B and Mr B accepted our investigators view, but Ageas did not. They thought the level 
of compensation suggested wasnt justified given the complexities of the claim. And they 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision to decline the claim 
Mrs B and Mr B accepted our investigators view that the claim was fairly and reasonably 
declined. However, Im going to offer some comments on Ageas claim decision.
Ageas have told us that the claim was declined for two reasons. One, because the design of 
the garage was defective. And two, because it was for the previous insurer to deal with the 
issues with the garage in 2014.
As regards the design, they say the garage was built on a concrete base only around 
400mm thick. Given the type of soil and surrounding vegetation, foundations should be much 
deeper than that.
I think thats a very debatable reason to decline the claim. The garage was built in 1973. For 
one thing, the building regulations and design specifications in those days were very 
different from those being quoted by Ageas now. For another, the garage stood  and 
performed its function - for more than 40 years before any issues were noticed (in 2014).
As regards the previous insurer, its debatable whether the issues now  which everyone 
agrees are caused by subsidence  were the same issues manifest in 2014. Expert reports 
commissioned by the previous insurer said the issue was not subsidence.
Mrs B and Mr B have been insured with Ageas for much more than a year. The Association 
of British Insurers (ABI) code relating to subsidence claims says that if a customer has been 
with a second insurer for more than a year, that insurer should take responsibility for a 
subsidence claim  even if its possible the issues began earlier.
I wont go into great detail about these two points of debate  there are a number of complex 
arguments and counter-arguments that could be made. Its not necessary to do so, because 
its also clear that Mrs B and Mr Bs policy says that Ageas will not cover subsidence 
damage to outbuildings unless the main part of the property (Mrs B and Mr Bs house, in this 
case) is affected by the same issues at the same time.
Mrs B and Mr Bs garage is very separate from their house. And their house has not had any 
subsidence issues. So, the damage isnt covered.
Before I wrote this decision, we contacted Mrs B and Mr B to tell them why we thought they 
definitely werent covered by the policy in this case. 
This was so that Mrs B and Mr B wouldnt be surprised by what Im saying in this decision - 
and to give them a chance to comment on my reasoning. They confirmed they had nothing 
to add, and they understood the position.  
The delays, confusion and poor service
Mrs B and Mr B were left without a decision on their claim  or a plan as to how to progress it  for more than a year. 
Ageas say that was justifiable because of the previous claim, the questions around 
disclosure at inception and the complexity of the questions around the design of the garage 
and the causes of the damage.
Im sorry, but I dont accept that at all. Ill explain why.
Citing the need to find out what Mrs B and Mr B had said about the 2014 claim when they 
bought their Ageas policy as a reason contributing to a years delay is nonsense.
Ageas had only to look at their own records to see that Mrs B and Mr B had in fact disclosed 
the 2014 claim when they bought the policy. If finding and looking at those records took 
more than a week  much less any substantial part of a year - then it was done very 
inefficiently.
Ageas couldnt find any detail on the previous claim on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database. So, they needed to make further enquiries. 
Those enquires  with which Ageas were ultimately satisfied  consisted of asking Mrs B 
and Mr B about the 2014 claim. Checking the CUE database, then asking Mrs B and Mr B 
about the 2014 claim would take a few weeks at most. Again, that shouldnt be any sort of 
reasons for a delay of a year or more to come to a decision about the claim 
The claim itself was complex, as Ageas say. Assuming they hadnt wanted to rely initially on 
the exclusion relating to outbuildings  or had needed to wait to see if the cause of the 
damage was in fact subsidence before they did so  then it was reasonable to commission 
further expert inspections. But these should have been  and appear to have been - 
complete at the latest by the end of 2022.
Close inspection of Ageas own claim notes and records after that point shows a confused 
series of communications between Ageas themselves and the loss adjuster. During that 
rather long set of communications, no-one appears to get a grip on the issues in the case or 
show any urgency about resolving the claim.
And during that time, Mrs B tells us she contacted Ageas and/or the loss adjuster on several 
different occasions to try to find out what was happening with the claim. On every occasion, 
she was told the contact for her case wasnt available  and no-one then took the initiative to 
call her back or get in touch with her.
So, in effect, Mrs B and Mr B were left with no clue as to how the claim was progressing  
never mind what the claim decision was  until more than a year after they first made the 
claim. 
Thats unacceptably poor customer service, particularly when you bear in mind that Mrs B 
and Mr B may want to go back to their previous insurer to raise questions about whether the 
2014 claim was properly settled.
All of that must have been extremely stressful and frustrating for Mrs B and Mr B. They were 
clearly and justifiably concerned about the garage. They were made to chase Ageas and/or 
their agents for any information about the claim  most often with no results  which would 
have been annoying and inconvenient.  
And Mrs B and Mr B were ultimately disappointed in the expectations they may legitimately 
have had given that Ageas had been considering the claim for so long.Putting things right
Given the extent of the stress, inconvenience and frustration experienced by Mrs B and Mr B 
 over an unnecessarily prolonged period  I agree with our investigator that £800 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for their trouble and upset.
For the reasons set out above though, I wont be asking Ageas to either settle the claim or 
re-consider it. Their decision to decline the claim is justifiable taking into account the policy 
terms and conditions, as weve explained to Mrs B and Mr B. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint in part.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay Mrs B and Mr B £800 in compensation for their trouble 
and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman