DRN-3795520
The complaint
Mr C complains about the US Crude Oil positions in his Contracts for Difference account 
held with Gain Capital UK Limited. He says when the market went into negative pricing, they 
closed his positions and unfairly adjusted his account causing him significant losses.
What happened
Mr C held US Crude Oil futures positions in his Contracts for Difference (CFD) account with 
Gain Capital UK Limited and these were due to expire on 20th April 2020 at 19:30. 
For the first time in history, the US Crude Oil market went into negative pricing at around 
19:08. Gains platform didnt allow them to record negative pricing, so they were unable to 
get an up-to-date accurate price and closed Mr Cs long positions at the last available price 
of $0.01 before expiry of the futures contract. 
Gain subsequently went on to make adjustments to his account to the expected margin 
close out (MCO) level of 50% which amounted to losses of around £8000 for Mr C. He says 
the adjustment was made several days after the positions were already closed and this 
action was unfair. He says he was prevented from closing his positions because the platform 
was frozen. To put things right he would like Gain to reimburse his funds. 
Gain issued a final response letter in June 2020 and didnt uphold his complaint. They said 
the adjustment to his account was in line with the general terms and conditions of his 
account. They referred to clause 14 manifest error and clause 15 events outside our 
control and market disruption events. They say:- 
- A manifest error in the pricing available due to market volatility required a price 
adjustment to his US Crude Oil positions.
- This situation would be covered under the market disruption events in their terms and 
conditions.
- Their platform was not designed for negative pricing, so they closed his positions at 0.01 
- the lowest available price and then a manual price adjustment was made.
- The adjustment calculation was that Mr Cs margin close out level of 50% would have 
triggered between 19:08 and 19:30 and so they made a decision that the he would not 
have held the position to expiry e.g. the -$37.63 price. They calculated that his MCO 
level would have reflected the oil contract price of -$15.91. As the he was closed at 
zero, the adjustment was calculated as stake X price difference (USD 5 X -1591) = USD 
-$7,957.66.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said the following:-
- The Covid 19 pandemic brought about unprecedented market events. 
- He would expect the price Gain offered to be reflective of the underlying market, but 
their price didnt go below $0.01.
- He said the US Crude Oil market continued to trade at negative prices until the expiry 
of the futures contract at 19:30 so the retrospective adjustments to the accounts were 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
- He acknowledged Mr C was logged into his account at 18:53 and that the evidence 
shows he tried to close his positions after the futures contract had expired but 
considered what would have happened if the correct price was displayed.
- He said he was satisfied that on balance Mr C would have closed his positions had 
the correct price been displayed and obtained a better price than what Gain have 
given him.
- He was unable to say precisely at which point the positions would have been closed. 
As such he recommended that Gain refund 50% of the sum they debited to Mr Cs 
account being $3978.83 and pay him £250 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr C accepted the investigators view, but Gain didnt agree and provided further information 
to show the price of US Crude Oil was negative at 19:08 and continued to fall until expiry of 
the contract at 19:30. Their system didnt show the continued fall in price and it was greyed 
out so the trading platform prevented trading once the price went negative. They say this is 
risk mitigation control built into the system not a system failure, but this was not known at the 
time. 
In addition, they say, if Mr C had attempted to trade by pressing the greyed buttons, they 
would have a record of this, but there is no evidence of him attempting to close any positions 
or contact them until after expiry of the contract. 
As Gain didnt agree with the investigator, this has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 September 2022 explaining why I was intending to 
uphold this. I include this below.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Whilst it is not within my remit to tell a business what its terms and conditions should say or 
how it should operate, it is key to look at how Gain have exercised their rights when making 
any changes. I would expect them be fair and reasonable in exercising their rights and so 
must consider whether in this instance their action was exercised in this way or not.
I accept the market conditions were unprecedented and the change in market conditions are 
not Gains responsibility. They are also entitled to have a system which doesnt deal with 
negative prices, but they need to be transparent and fair in giving their customers 
information on their platform limitations and particularly on how they will manage the 
customers positions when situations like this arise. 
There is no dispute that up-to-date price was not available for US Crude Oil and Gains 
platform didnt show negative prices, so the platform was greyed out to prevent any trading. 
Gain say this was risk mitigation control, but this wasnt clear to Mr C because there was no 
warning or system message that told him what the situation was. As far as he could see, a 
system error had prevented him from trading, and he makes this point to Gain when he calls 
them to complain. 
Mr C didnt know the system couldnt cope with negative prices, or that he would be 
prevented from trading. He wasnt able to make decisions such as placing a stop loss on his 
account which could have mitigated any loss he would have incurred. There is a possibility 
he may have made the decision to close his positions sooner when he was logged in earlier 
at 18:53 if he had known the system couldnt cope with negative prices. This would have left him in a much better position than he finds himself in now. So, I think it is unfair that Mr C 
wasnt given all the information which would have contributed to the decisions he may have 
taken in managing his positions.
Gain quoted various clauses in the terms and conditions that it considers cover the events 
that took place as a result of the movements in the US Crude Oil market including manifest 
error and events outside our control and market disruption events. I take on board the 
points Gain makes in relation to these but having looked above at how much information 
Gain gave their customers in relation to the way the platform operated and negative pricing, I 
dont think these clauses would have come into effect and so I dont think their points are 
relevant to the findings I have made here.
 
Ultimately, Gain should have informed Mr C what would happen and that they didnt deal 
with negative pricing. They along with other brokers should have been aware from earlier in 
the week when the changing market information had become available as well as the 
possibility of negative pricing, so they should have put their customers on notice to make 
them aware. I am not satisfied that they made clear how they would deal with this situation 
before the event happened in order to ensure transparency. I understand they say they 
didnt know this at the time and no such system was in place to inform customers what 
would happen, but I think the onus on the business to have made this clear. 
The fact that Gain didnt know the system couldnt deal with negative prices or what they 
would do in this situation doesnt mean it absolves them of responsibility. They failed to give 
their customers sufficient information and operated in a way that I dont think was fair or 
reasonable. Their customers should not be expected to bear the repercussions of this by 
being locked out of making any changes to their positions until the market expired.
I have to consider what Mr C would most likely have done had he been given all the 
information about negative prices on the platform and the retrospective price adjustments. 
With market conditions being as volatile as they were and being so close to expiry of the 
futures contract, I am persuaded that Mr C would have closed his positions sooner  most 
likely at 18:53 when he logged in to the platform before the prices went negative at 19:08 so 
any retrospective price adjustments wouldnt have been necessary - and so the clauses they 
mention above would become irrelevant. 
Gain should put Mr C back in the position it would be if his positions were closed at 18:53 
which is when he would most likely have closed his positions. They should compare the 
readjusted figure with the position he would have been if they had closed at 18:53. They 
should also pay him simple 8% interest on the difference each calculated year. 
The lack of information and the process involved in dealing with this has added considerable 
distress and inconvenience to Mr C. Gain should also pay him £250.00 for the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint against Gain Capital UK 
Limited. They should calculate and pay Mr C as noted above.
 
They should pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr C didnt respond to the provisional decision. Gain responded to say they had settled the 
complaint with Mr C directly as noted in the provisional decision above. They confirmed a credit of $10,081.00 including 8% interest and £250.00 for distress and inconvenience was 
applied to the trading account of Mr C.
Putting things right
As both Mr C and Gain accept my provisional decision, there is nothing further for me to add. 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and make the same findings here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Gain 
Capital UK Limited. 
If not done so already, they should compare the readjusted figure with the position Mr C 
would have been if they had closed at 18:53. They should also pay him simple 8% interest 
on the difference each calculated year and should pay him £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman