DRN-4177474
The complaint
Miss K complained that when she tried to consolidate two separate ISAs she held with 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money, it stopped her from doing this. Miss K said her 
transaction was reversed, and Virgin shouldnt do that without her permission. 
What happened
Miss K said she wanted to consolidate two ISAs, so she moved money from one to the other 
using online banking. She said she was surprised and concerned that Virgin just moved the 
money back again. Miss K appears then to have transferred these ISA funds elsewhere. 
Miss K told us that a couple of months later she found the time to complain about this, but all 
Virgin said was that shed tried to pay into more than one ISA in the same financial year. It 
said regulations meant she wasnt allowed to do that, so it had returned the money to her. 
Miss K said shes perfectly entitled to consolidate one existing ISA into another. She said 
other banks or building societies had been able to do this smoothly online with no problems. 
And she didnt think Virgin should have moved her money anywhere without her agreement. 
Our investigator asked Virgin if Miss K could consolidate her ISAs, and if it had understood 
that this was what she was trying to do. Virgin has explained that if Miss K moves her money 
herself, using online banking, then Virgins systems think thats new money going into her 
ISA. So it will reject the payment if shes already paid into another ISA during that financial 
year. The money then gets sent back to the sending account. Virgin said that Miss K could 
consolidate two ISAs by completing a transfer form. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Miss K unfortunately 
hadnt followed Virgins process to consolidate her ISAs. Miss K had already paid into 
another ISA in that financial year, and she isnt allowed to pay into more than one ISA 
account in the same year. So our investigator thought Virgin was right to reverse the 
transaction.
Miss K said that wed just said the same as Virgin, and she didnt think wed done any critical 
thinking. She repeated that other banks do manage to permit transfers in this way. She said 
Virgin was just trying to cover up the inadequacy of its online banking system, at the 
expense of its customers. And Miss K still thought Virgin shouldnt make any bank 
transactions at all without a clients consent. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said banks do have different processes. Miss K 
wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so this case came to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Miss K says that shes been able to make direct transfers from one ISA to another, using 
online banking, with other banks before. And she thinks if Virgin cant do that too, then its 
online banking system is inadequate. 
Im sorry to have to tell Miss K that I dont agree. I understand her view that it would be 
better service, if Virgins online system could tell whether shes moving money into an ISA in 
breach of the relevant regulations, or not. But its not the role of our service to insist that 
businesses provide the best possible customer service. 
What I have to do is to decide cases by reference to whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And I do think it is fair and reasonable for Virgin to tackle the very complex 
area of ISA payments and transfers by adopting a cautious approach, and asking its 
customers to complete a transfer form if they want to move money between ISAs. That way, 
it can be sure that its customers dont inadvertently breach ISA rules, and lose the benefits 
of the ISA wrapper for their money. 
I realise Miss K says that other banks take a more sophisticated approach to this, but I dont 
think that makes what Virgin has done unfair, or unreasonable. 
Miss K also says that banks shouldnt ever carry out any transaction without the express 
agreement of the customer. But I dont think it was wrong, in this case, for Virgin to reverse 
the specific transaction that Miss K made, for the reasons Ive set out above. 
Miss K said that she could have lost out on interest because Virgin had returned her money. 
However, it appears that Miss K was aware at the time that the transfer hadnt gone ahead, 
because she appears to have closed this Virgin ISA very shortly after this. So I dont think its 
likely that Miss K has suffered a financial loss because of what Virgin did in this case. 
I know Miss K will be disappointed, but I dont think Virgin has been unfair or unreasonable 
here. And that means her complaint wont be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman