DRN-4016189
The complaint
Mr L, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr L was approved for two loans and there was a gap in the lending relationship between 
the two. And so, I have considered them as two separate loan applications and not part of 
one loan chain. Here is a table showing some brief information about the loans. 
Loan Approved Capital 
lentTotal to 
payRepayment Term Date repaid
1 30 July 2016 £3,000 £6,476.04 £179.89 36 
months30 September 
2019
Break in lending relationship
2 7 April 2022 £5,000 £8,837.76 £368.24 25 
monthsopen
After Mr L had complained, Everyday Lending replied with its final response letter (FRL) on 
14 November 2022. It made it clear that both loans had been applied for and taken to 
consolidate a great deal of debt Mr L already had with other lenders. 
On loan 1 it was to consolidate six high cost instalment loans and two credit cards. He 
earned £1,142 a month, had no dependents, and lived at home with his parents. 
For loan 1 the formula used to work out Mr Ls household expenses was to use 35% of his 
net income (with a minimum of £500 and a maximum of £1,000). It said in the FRL:
Your monthly financial commitments together with your general living
expenses as detailed above, was calculated £1561.68 prior to the consolidation of 
any debt. My affordability calculation shows he had a monthly disposable income of 
£179.71 after taking into account consolidated loans and Everyday Loans monthly 
repayments.
Everyday Lending had taken the similar approach to loan 2 when Mr L applied to it again for 
the same thing  to consolidate a lot of debt using its capital. Mr L wanted to consolidate five 
high cost loans and clear a credit facility account with a lender. Mr L was confirmed as 
earning £1,541.84 a month, no dependents and lived with his parents.
This time Everyday Lending used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate what it 
referred to as a baseline figure for his living expenses. It went on to explain in the FRL:
The baseline figures are then verified using information on the bank statement 
presented by the customer and adjusted accordingly. This approach therefore gives 
a more accurate reflection of living expenses. We also apply a buffer to the living 
expenses amount to accommodate any unexpected minor changes in the customer's 
circumstances or one-off additional expenses.his approximate monthly expenditure 
was calculated as £2024.13 prior to the consolidation of any debt.
Our affordability calculation conducted at the time showed he had a monthly 
disposable income of £361.31 after considering consolidated loans and Everyday 
Loans monthly repayments.
Everyday Lendings conclusion was that it had done all it needed to do and Mr L was going 
to be able to make the repayments for its loans without undue difficultyassuming there is 
no significant unforeseen change in circumstances and no drastic increase in borrowing. 
Mr Ls representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
November 2022 and one of our adjudicators considered it. He thought that Mr L was so 
seriously in debt that the fresh loans were not of any help to Mr L and having looked  at the 
loans being consolidated, still he thought that Mr L was not going to be able to afford them 
sustainably.
Everyday Lending sent additional evidence about loan 1 our adjudicator had not seen before 
but that did not alter his view. It maintained that the consolidation assisted Mr L and so it 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 31 March I issued a provisional 
decision in which I gave reasons why I considered that the evidence I had led me to 
provisionally conclude that only loan 2 ought to be upheld in this complaint. 
I gave time for both parties to respond and in the body of the provisional decision I did ask 
for additional information to clarify two points. Neither party has responded and so I have 
received no additional evidence or submissions to lead me to alter that view. 
So, this final determination is in the same terms as the provisional decision. It is set out 
below. The only change relates to what I said about the division of the £3,000 loan capital on 
loan 1. The figure used to pay off previous debts and the cash advance forwarded to Mr L 
are clarified in this final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Mr L would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending  had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Loan 1
Mr L applied for and took some payment protection insurance which started on 30 July 2016 
but the premium was listed as £0. So, I mention it for completeness but no loss appears to 
have been established for that secondary loan attached to loan 1. 
In 2016 it seems that the system utilised by Everyday Lending when customers applied for 
loans was a little different in that it used 35% of his net income to provide it with his 
expenditure figures. And Everyday Lendings account notes tell me that it did review bank 
statements. Copies of those have not been provided and so I have read the account notes 
for that time in 2016 which gives me some details. 
Mr Ls bank account had a £1,000 overdraft on it and Mr L used it  and Everyday Lending 
had noted he exceeded his overdraft limit for 1 to 29 July2016 which was the month he was 
applying to it. 
It also obtained a credit search and I have reviewed that set of results from 2016. 
The account notes tell me that Mr L had been assuring Everyday Lending hed got into a bit 
of a mess taking too many payday loans and so this loan from it would be used to pay them off and would assist in controlling his finances and he told Everyday Lending hed not use 
payday loans again. 
Another entry which causes me concern is where its noted that  would not go dma as 
didn't want to ruin credit fileand by paying them off from our loan proceeds .will assist in 
controlling his finances and will not use again 
 
Reference to dma is a debt management arrangement (DMA) or he may be referring to a 
debt management plan (DMP). 
Another account note states-   
BRANCH MANAGER APPROVAL / RECOMMENDATION tight close out good paid 
[other lender] loan and historic credit pdl usage explained and will not use again a1 
score not highly indebted saving customer money on monthly out goings
The other lender referred to in this note and which I have removed for privacy reasons is the 
bank loan marked with a star in the second table below  as this note leads me to think this 
loan had been paid off. 
I consider it to have been obvious that Mr L was not good at managing his money as despite 
having relatively few household expenses (as he lived at home with his parents and had no 
dependents) then still he had found himself in the position where he was exceeding his 
overdraft and had not enough cash to pay for the existing debts. 
Added to which Id consider that Mr L was a modest earner (his declared net income was 
£1,142) and so his chances of drifting back into debt even after taking the Everyday Lending 
loan were high. 
On the affordability front, Everyday Lending says that the pounds and pence calculations in 
its income and expenditure (I&E) assessment showed Mr L could afford it. And it has sent to 
us a debt table. Ive decided its important to demonstrate here the consolidation of Mr Ls 
debt that was planned and carried out. It demonstrates why Everyday Lending is 
maintaining that its loan assisted Mr L. The ones here were paid using a cheque from 
Everyday Lending. Ive rounded the figures.
Loan and type Balance 
(rounded)Settlement sum 
(rounded)Usual monthly 
repayment
Loan  high cost 
instalment lender£181 £181 £181
Same lender as above £242 £242 £176
Credit card £467 £507 £15 (minimum)
Payday lender  loan £54 £54 £33
Same lender as above £124 £47 £64
Same lender as above £250 £141 £98
Same lender as above £500 £370 £189
Bank credit card £747 £747 £22
Totals: £2,565 £2,289 £778
Mr L took a loan of £3,000 and documents I have seen show that he received a cash 
advance of just over £711 - the balance was used for the consolidation of the other loans. 
This table shows what Mr L still had to deal with as well as the Everyday Lending loan 1.Loan  payday lender £33 £33 £33
telecoms contract/loan £250 £0 £25
bank loan * £1,257 £1,257 £149*
Payday loan 
(now settled)£310 £310 £310 #
Bank current account £0 £0 £0
Totals £207 (excluding 
payday loan 
settled) #
# this may not have been a monthly commitment going forward for Mr L as the note in the 
Everyday Lending debt table suggests this was settled. Even if it was it would not alter my 
view on affordability.
*The account note referred to earlier in this decision does indicate that the item marked with 
a star in the above table was a bank loan that Mr L had paid off. In the absence of any other 
information I have proceeded on that basis. 
And so, its very likely that after taking loan 1, Mr Ls commitments were that he had to repay 
£33 for one month more on one loan, continue paying for his telecoms loan contract of £25 
and the Everyday Lending loan of just under £180 per month. So that radically alters Mr Ls 
cash-flow situation going forward. 
 
So, this is what I think about loan 1. That the debt consolidation was based on solid 
foundation and I do not think that Everyday Lending did the wrong thing here. 
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 1. 
What happened in-between loans 1 and 2
Mr L contacted Everyday Lending a few months after taking this loan in March 2017 to say 
that he needed a top-up of £1,000 and had been using payday loans again and had a friend 
whod be a guarantor for him. I do not see that anything proceeded with that with Everyday 
Lending but its very feasible Mr L applied elsewhere. 
Added to which, in June 2017 and again in August 2017 the direct debit for the payments for 
his first Everyday Lending loan failed due to insufficient funds and Mr Ls reaction was that 
he was short and hed see if he could borrow from his dad. 
Reviewing Mr Ls credit file for the period between July 2016 to when he approached 
Everyday Lending again in April 2022 then Mr L had been taking a series of loans all 
through the time he had been paying off loan 1. Mr L had an account which defaulted in 
September 2020. Mr L had demonstrated that he was not staying away from payday loans 
at all and had failed to make the payments on this loan 1 twice. Loan 2
Everyday Lending was approached by Mr L for a second loan of £5,000 in April 2022. 
Everyday Lending  said it obtained and reviewed Mr Ls bank statements for two months and 
carried out a credit search. It also checked where he worked. Everyday Lending said it used 
ONS statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense element of affordability. 
This calculation took into consideration the customers income, region, household 
composition and residential status. It said its affordability calculation showed that Mr L would 
have a monthly disposable income of just under £362 after considering his new Everyday 
Loan monthly repayments.
The need for repayments to be sustainable meant Everyday Lending needed to ensure Mr L 
could meet any repayments without undue difficulty and without having to borrow further. 
Everyday Lending had the advantage of all the account notes during and since taking (and 
paying off) loan 1. 
Plus, it was able to use the 2022 credit search results to track what Mr L had been doing 
with his debt management since he had taken the first loan in 2016. Some of what Mr L did 
in-between loan 1 and loan 2 are noted in the Everyday Lending account notes. And I have 
listed in the earlier section of this decision (What happened in-between loans 1 and 2) what 
Mr L had been doing as revealed by the notes and his credit search results. 
For loan 2, I have been sent copies of the bank account statements Everyday Lending had 
reviewed at the time Mr L had applied for loan 2. These further illustrated  Mr Ls situation. 
During February 2022 and March 2022 Mr Ls account was credited from other lending 
companies with six new loans plus he made multiple draw downs on the lender with which 
he had a credit facility. 
Mr Ls bank statements show me that two payments to two other lenders were returned 
unpaid in mid-March 2022. Everyday Lending has told us it knew Mr L was in serious 
financial difficulty then. Despite all the information it had its solution was to lend again to 
Mr L. 
As Mr L was using several payday lenders and/or high-cost loan providers to supplement his 
income, I think his financial situation was probably deteriorating at that stage and he was 
likely to struggle to make the repayments under this new loan. And I think he was highly 
likely to be borrowing again. 
Even after repaying some of his debt, Mr L would still need to have used a significant share 
of his income to service his remaining debt each month suggesting a risk of unsustainability. 
So, I dont agree that further lending wouldve been sustainable to Mr L at this time. 
I uphold Mr Ls complaint for loan 2. 
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2,
treat any payments made by Mr L in respect of these loan as payments towards the 
capital amount of £5,000 
If Mr L has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr L.
remove any adverse information about Loan 2 to date but going forward and until it is 
paid off loan 2 will continue to be reported to the credit reference agencies as normal.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending  to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending  must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading as Everyday Loans should do as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman