DRN-2182826
The complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out some time between
1972 and 2000. Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the account at 
the same time as Mr S applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr S applied for his card in 1972, and he bought the PPI some time between then 
and 2000. But Lloyds cant say for sure when the PPI was sold. So Ive thought 
about what we know about Lloyds policies and sales processes from the earliest 
point at which its PPI sales began and 2000. 
On balance I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr S aware the PPI was optional and 
he chose to take it. I say this because from what we know about Lloyds sales 
processes from when they began and 2000, Mr S wouldve had to make an active 
choice to buy the PPI. On balance, I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the 
PPI to Mr Ss account if he hadnt chosen to take it out.
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr S, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr S says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to his employer benefits, and would do 
so, it seems, for longer. So I think Mr S wouldve had some use for the policy, 
despite his existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr S would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had 
a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying 
it.
Which means Lloyds does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman