DRN-4005199
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
handled his request for help when he tried to make a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr J used his Tesco credit card to buy a used car outright from a car 
dealership, who Ill refer to as F. The car had covered approximately 68,000 miles and was 
eight years old when Mr J purchased it. He paid a total amount of £5,990. The car came with 
a six-month warranty.
A month or so after collection, Mr J noticed a problem with the car. It was losing coolant 
liquid and needed to be topped up regularly. He got in touch with F who diagnosed it with an 
Exhaust Gas Regulation (EGR) valve problem and arranged for the car to be returned to a 
garage to be repaired under warranty.
The EGR valve was replaced in February 2020 and Mr J continued to use it, although not as 
much as he anticipated due to a shortage of work and the continued restrictions imposed by 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
In June 2021 the engine light came on. A diagnostic report confirmed the fault to be with the 
EGR valve again. Mr J had covered approximately 8,000 miles in the car since the previous 
replacement of the valve. He got in touch with F and the garage that had completed the first 
replacement, but neither were willing to help. Mr J was told the warranty for the previous 
replacement lasted for 12 months, which had now expired, and the replacement had been 
carried out to a good standard.
Unable to get any assistance from F or the garage, Mr J saved the money and had a 
replacement EGR valve fitted in September 2021. He paid £600 for the work to be done. At 
this stage, he also got in touch with Tesco and asked them to consider a Section 75 (S75) 
claim, as hed used his credit card to buy the car. 
Tesco considered Mr Js concerns. They told him that they couldnt raise a chargeback claim 
for him as hed contacted them outside of the chargeback scheme rules time limits. In 
relation to S75, Tesco told him they couldnt see a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
from F when they sold him the car. They said the replacement Mr J had arranged was 
outside of the warranty and the car had been used for 20 months since the first replacement 
and had covered approximately 10,000 miles. Tesco said this indicated that the car wasnt 
faulty at the point of sale. 
Unhappy with this, Mr J brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said she 
thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was originally sold to Mr J, because it 
had needed a replacement EGR valve within a month of being purchased. But, she said she 
felt the initial replacement was done to a satisfactory standard and that was enough to 
satisfy the requirements of S75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). She said the 
CRA includes durability, and our investigator felt the replacement had shown to be durable 
considering the time since it was completed, and the mileage covered between 
February 2020 and September 2021.
Mr J didnt agree with this. He provided more information to show the average lifespan of an 
EGR valve, along with testimony that he only purchased the car to ensure the reliability of it, 
as he used his car to drive long distances for work. He said he could have bought similar 
models with much higher mileage but opted for this car to prevent any problems. 
As Mr J didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mr Js complaint is that his warranty for the initial replacement EGR valve wasnt 
extended when the pandemic happened. I havent commented on that within this decision as 
it isnt something that is covered by our jurisdiction. 
Initially, I have to say that I agree with Tesco when they confirm they couldnt raise a 
chargeback claim for Mr J as he raised his complaint out of time. The chargeback scheme 
rules allow Mr J 120 days from the latest expected delivery date, in this case January 2020 
when he bought the car, to raise a chargeback claim. As he didnt raise any concerns with 
Tesco until September 2021, it was too late for them to consider a chargeback claim for him. 
Mr J paid for the car outright on his Tesco credit card. S75 says that in certain 
circumstances, Tesco are jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
purchase agreement with F that the car must be of satisfactory quality. Under the principles 
of S75, Tesco can be held jointly liable for the quality of the car Mr J bought. 
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the car price, its mileage and age. In this case, Mr J paid around 
£6,000 for the car, and the car was eight years old. 
Our investigator has said that she believes the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
bought by Mr J, as it needed a replacement EGR valve fitted within a month. I think its more 
difficult to determine if the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale based on the 
evidence Ive seen, which includes the age of the car, its mileage, and the projected lifespan 
of an EGR valve. Mr J had covered approximately 1,500 miles in the car when the initial 
EGR replacement was needed. And the car had travelled over 70,000 miles in total at that 
point. Research shows an EGR valve could be expected to be needed to be replaced in a 
car of this age and with this mileage. I havent seen anything to show that the car was sold 
as having a new EGR valve. And theres insufficient evidence to show that the EGR valve 
was faulty at the point of supply. Therefore, I dont think it would be unreasonable to 
conclude that the EGR valve needed replacing due to wear and tear, as opposed to the car 
not being of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Because of this, Im satisfied Tesco 
declined Mr Js S75 claim fairly as I cant conclude theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation when the car was sold to him. 
However, even if I was satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr J, I am satisfied that the car was repaired satisfactorily, which is in line with 
the remedies available to Mr J under the CRA.The CRA explains that, in Mr Js case, F should have one chance to replace the EGR valve 
and, following that replacement, the goods (in this case the car) should conform to contract. 
If it doesnt, Mr J can, for example, ask for a price reduction or to reject the car. Mr J has 
said that he feels the replacement carried out by F was done using a substandard part. I 
understand why he has said that, but there isnt anything contained in the job sheets or 
invoice from F to confirm that  and the CRA doesnt say that any repairs or replacements 
should be done with new or top of the range parts. It implies that the repair should be 
completed satisfactorily. F, for example, wouldnt have been prevented from using a 
reconditioned part  as long as it brought the contract to conformity.
Following the replacement of the EGR valve by F, Mr J travelled 9,000 miles in 
approximately 15 months in the car. So, I cant reasonably conclude that the EGR valve 
hadnt been replaced satisfactorily or that the car failed to conform to the contract Mr J had 
entered when he bought it. Had Mr J bought the car on the premise that it was fitted with a 
new EGR valve, then my decision may have been different  but in this case, I dont think 
hes in a worse position than he should have expected to be in, even if the first replacement 
hadnt been required. That was completed under warranty, and its possible the replacement 
allowed Mr J more use of the car than he might reasonably have got out if the replacement 
hadnt been needed. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Mr J has been prejudiced by the need to replace 
the EGR valve 15 months after the previous replacement. I think this is something he could 
have expected to need to do around that time, when I consider the age of the car, its 
mileage and the information surrounding the average lifespan of an EGR valve. Because of 
that, I dont think Tesco have acted unreasonably by declining Mr Js request for help to 
recover his repair costs. 
My decision is that Tesco dont need to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman