DRN-3339420
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax havent provided him with the 
service it should have. 
What happened
Mr F has raised several complaints with Halifax saying he hasnt received the service he 
should have. He says mail was sent to an old address raising concerns of possible fraud and 
that he was told that he could have a reduced settlement amount for his outstanding balance 
on his card but then was told this wasnt available. Mr F says he was misled for a several 
months.
Halifax says that Mr Fs complaint about the address was upheld. It provided evidence of the 
address being updated and said it had paid Mr F £350 compensation. Regarding the partial 
settlement amount it said it had no evidence that his was offered to Mr F. It said this wasnt 
something card services or collections were able to agree to. It said that during 2020 and 
2021 it offered payment holidays for customers who had been affected by the pandemic and 
that Mr F was provided with two separate three month payment holidays. It says his further 
request for a payment holiday was declined as two was the maximum.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They looked at the contact notes provided and 
didnt find any evidence that a partial settlement had been offered. They noted that Halifax 
had said it was available to help Mr F and could consider his circumstances therefore they 
suggested Mr F contacted Halifax about this.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated the various complaints he had 
raised with Halifax and said he was misled for several months about a possible partial 
settlement and that the calls hadnt been provided on which this was discussed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has raised several issues with Halifax and has provided reference numbers for these. 
He has specifically mentioned his complaint regarding mail being sent to an old address. Our 
investigator explained Halifax has provided evidence to show this was addressed and the 
complaint upheld, action taken, and compensation paid. Therefore, while I note Mr Fs 
comments I havent considered this part of his complaint further. This decision concerns 
Mr Fs complaint that he was offered a partial settlement for the outstanding balance on his 
credit card and then he was told this offer wasnt available. 
I am very sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr F has experienced over the past years, and the 
impact the pandemic has had, and I can understand how upsetting it must be for him to feel 
he was offered a way of settling his card account to then find this option wasnt available. 
However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Halifax did 
something wrong or treated Mr F unfairly.
While I do not dispute Mr F believed that he could pay a reduced amount to settle his credit 
card account, having looked through the evidence provided (including Halifaxs contact 
notes) I have nothing to show that this was offered to him. I can see that he was provided 
with two payment holidays and further arrangements to prevent interest and charges being 
applied but I have nothing to show he was told that part of his outstanding balance would be 
written off or he could pay a reduced amount to settle. Halifax has said that it wouldnt 
accept a reduced settlement at the point Mr Fs account was at and that this would only be 
discussed through a specialist team. Therefore, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not 
find I have enough to say that Mr F was misadvised about a possible partial settlement.
As Halifax has explained that a partial settlement wouldnt be offered in regard to Mr Fs 
account at the stage it was at I do not find I can say he has been treated unfairly by this not 
being an option available to him.
I understand that his will be very disappointing for Mr F and I can understand why he is 
upset by the service he has received. But in this case I think Halifax has tried to assist him 
when he wasnt able to make his repayments by putting in place payment holidays and other 
plans. As I do not find evidence to show that it offered a partial settlement, and I accept that 
this wasnt an option available for Mr Fs account at that time, I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman