DRN-2412528
The complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has unfairly 
charged him for extra days car hire and is responsible for delays and poor service. 
What happened
Mr A entered into a lease hire agreement with VWFS in July 2014. This was due to end in 
July 2018 after being extended for a year. Unfortunately, on 1 June 2018 Mr As car was 
stolen and upon recovery it required repairs before it could be returned to VWFS. It was 
eventually returned on 20 December 2018 and VWFS charged Mr A £1945.80 for extra hire. 
Mr A complains that the reasons for the delays in the car being handed back were because 
of the approved repairers and because VWFS delayed in authorising maintenance elements. 
He complained to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) about the 
excess hire, but that organisation was unable to deal with the service issues raised by Mr A.
VWFS in its final response agreed that it was responsible for some of the poor service and 
delay experienced by Mr A. It offered to pay Mr A £200 as a goodwill gesture to reflect the 
trouble and upset caused. Mr A didnt think that was enough and brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint. They thought that for the issues VWFS were 
responsible for £250 wasnt enough to reflect the trouble and upset caused. He 
recommended that VWFS should pay Mr A £350. VWFS still thought that the offer of £200 
was fair but agreed that it would pay Mr A £350.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator and said that £450 was fair. He said that he had taken 
time off work and lost income because of the delays caused by VWFS. He said that the 
service had been poor and he had no faith in VWFS or the way he had been treated. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute and the issue between the parties is how much 
compensation is fair for the delays and poor service provided by VWFS. In my decision I will 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
I can see from the comprehensive timeline and explanation put forward by Mr A that the 
process of returning the car at the end of the hire period was lengthy and difficult for him. I 
would like to say to Mr A at the outset that I sympathise with his frustration and I can 
understand why he feels that the extra hire charges arent fair. I can see that Mr A was doing 
his best to make sure that the car was in good condition before it was returned. 
As has been explained to Mr A, this service can only look at the service issues that were the 
responsibility of VWFS so I cant look at issues of delay that were the responsibility of the 
manufacturer or the repairing garages. The BVRLA has made a decision that the charges 
are correct and so I cant look at that issue again or make any decision about whether they 
have been calculated correctly.  
The two issues that VWFS accepted that it was responsible for were the delay in authorising 
the oil service and the battery replacement issue. 
In addition, Mr As experiences with BCA who were VWFSs agents appointed to collect the 
car were not satisfactory. He had difficulty with them when asking for authentication during a 
telephone call and they did not follow his instructions when attending to collect the car.
Mr A also complained about the time taken for VWFS to add his wife as a third party to his 
account which took 10 days and was concerning because Mr A wanted his wife added so 
that she could speak to VWFS whilst he was in hospital.
Looking at all of these issues, overall, I agree with the investigator that £350 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused by these problems. 
I dont doubt that the battery issue was frustrating for Mr A and it took a week to resolve. He 
explains that he had to make a number of telephone calls and he lost work whilst the battery 
was replaced.
With regard to the oil service there was a delay while the issue was resolved, and again this 
involved Mr A making a number of telephone calls. The matter was eventually resolved but 
the delay in getting the service subsequently carried out was because the garage did not 
have a replacement car available for a number of weeks. 
Whilst frustrating and inconvenient for Mr A, I dont think that these issues were the cause of 
significant delay in returning the car and therefore responsible for the bulk of the charges Mr 
A incurred. 
Mr A has set out the problems he experienced with BCA when the car was going through the 
collection process. I can understand that the attitude of the call handler was upsetting for Mr 
A, but I can see that by the end of the call the matter had been resolved. In addition, not 
attending when requested was no doubt frustrating for Mr A but the car was ultimately 
successfully collected on that day. 
I can understand why Mr A was unhappy about the time taken to add his wife to the account 
and it no doubt caused further anxiety whilst he was in hospital. 
This service does not award compensation for loss of income in the same way that a court 
might. We look at what is fair and reasonable and the awards we make are usually modest. 
It is not the role of this service to punish businesses for mistakes either.     
For these aspects of the poor service that VWFS are responsible for I consider £350 is fair 
and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused. I think that £450 is too high and not at a 
level that is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. These issues, whilst upsetting for Mr 
A were ultimately resolved satisfactorily within a relatively short period of time.  
Mr A has raised concerns about how this compensation is to be paid. As I indicated I cannot 
interfere with the decision about the car hire charges and this decision is in relation to a 
different aspect. I would however expect VWFS to treat Mr A positively and sympathetically 
in coming to an arrangement to repay the outstanding charges.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and to put it right I direct Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr A £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman