DRN-2321239
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Money (BoI) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mr H bought the policy in January 2006 at the same time as applying for a credit card in a 
Post Office branch.
The policy cost no more than 79p per £100 of Mr Hs outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of his balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was told PPI was required in order to get the credit card. BoI says Mr H 
completed an application form and chose to take it  both parties have provided a copy of 
Mr Hs application form for me to consider. 
Looking at the application form, there is a section about PPI with a brief explanation of what 
it is. This is followed by a box that says, I understand the options available to me, have read 
the policy summary and can confirm that I wish to proceed with the cover as indicated. The 
box is ticked, and Mr H has signed beneath it  confirming his selection. So, I think Mr H was 
aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
BoI says it didnt give Mr H any advice, but Mr H says it did. I cant know what was said, but I 
havent seen anything on the application form to suggest BoI reviewed Mr Hs circumstances 
at the time of sale and its my understanding that it would not usually offer any advice.  So, I 
dont think BoI gave Mr H advice and that means it didnt have to check the policy was right 
for him. But BoI did need to give him enough information about the PPI, so he could decide 
whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information BoI gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that might have 
made it harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having unusual employment 
circumstances. And based on what I know about his circumstances, it looks like the policy 
could have been useful to him, so I dont think better information would have stopped him 
buying it. 
Mr H says he was struggling financially at the time and thats why he took the card. But he 
said this was around 2010. The evidence shows the policy was taken in 2006  four years 
earlier, and it was cancelled in 2008. So, I havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt 
affordable for Mr H at the time of sale.
Mr H says he was entitled to six months full sick pay from his employer, but he didnt have 
any other way to make his repayments. The policy would have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay Mr H received and potentially for longer. And Mr H could have made repeat claims 
subject to a requalification period. So, I think the PPI could have been useful to him if he fell 
on hard times.
So, based on everything Ive said above, I dont think better information would have changed 
Mr Hs decision to take the policy. It follows, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, BoI 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But BoI has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
BoI got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr H about that. Because BoI didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoI has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman