DRN-3028913
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2000. 
Miss C says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to NatWest throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into this complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. Miss C didnt agree, so its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Cs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
did Miss C agree to the PPI?
I dont doubt Miss C genuinely feels now that the PPI was mis-sold to her. However, the sale 
was a long time ago and I think its fair to say she hasnt been able to remember much of 
what happened during the sale process.
I think its more likely NatWest made it clear enough that Miss C didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose to take it out. I say this because I was shown her original mortgage 
application documents where asked for the PPI to be added. Miss C says she doesnt 
remember agreeing to buy the policy, but theres supporting evidence in as much as she 
also filled out a direct debit mandate specifically for the PPI premiums to be collected 
monthly from her bank account. She was also given an insurance schedule which set out 
basic details about the PPI cover, including the cost. The PPI was also outlined on her 
Mortgage Offer, an important document which I feel shed have wanted to read quite 
carefully. And finally, I see that when she borrowed more money on her mortgage a few 
years later, in 2004, she amended the PPI to cover the extra borrowing. This raised the 
monthly premium from around £33 to £37.
To me, all these things provide substantial evidence that Miss C agreed to the PPI and it 
was something she wanted to have help protect her finances in the event of losing her job or 
being unable to work. 
was the policy suitable?
NatWest says it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C as part of an advised sale, so it was 
for Miss C herself to check that the PPI was right for her. Im not sure about this because 
there are some features of the case which show she might have discussed the issue of 
mortgage protection at some point. 
However, this doesnt actually change my view in any way, because I do feel the PPI was a 
suitable product to recommend to her in any event. Thats because she appears to have 
been eligible for the PPI and not caught by any of the typical exclusions we sometimes see 
in these policies. As the mortgage was insured against Miss Cs home, it could have been 
useful if something went wrong. I have taken account of Miss C probably having some sick 
pay with her job, but Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use to her. It 
could have paid her mortgage repayments for up to 12 months, which is much longer than 
her job-related sick pay would have lasted. 
Ive also taken account of what her representative says about her having death in service 
benefit and redundancy pay. I was shown no evidence of these but the former covered a 
different eventuality to the PPI and neither benefit - in my view of Miss Cs circumstances - 
render the PPI incompatible with having these other forms of insurance / benefit. Her 
representative also said Miss C had previously had a medical condition which it implied 
could have made claiming under the policy difficult. Again, no evidence was provided and 
the condition cited pre-dates the PPI sale by almost 20 years. Im afraid I dont consider this 
to be a relevant factor.
Overall, I think the policy was a suitable one for Miss C given her situation. 
was Miss C given enough information?
Its certainly possible the information NatWest gave to Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it might have been, but I think its more likely she knew the policy was in existence and 
she bought it after being told the main features of the cover. There is evidence showing the 
cost of the PPI was known to Miss C. Also, as Ive said above, Miss C herself extended the 
PPI cover in 2004 and I make the reasonable assumption that she did so after once again 
considering her financial affairs.
Because of all this I dont think Miss C would have declined the cover even if had NatWest 
could have done a better job at explaining it. The cover probably wasnt too dissimilar to 
what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was most likely given, 
and there was nothing about Miss Cs situation which would have made it difficult to claim. 
Miss Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant NatWest should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I 
have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Cs particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
This means National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss C. Ive considered the issue of the commission Miss C paid as percentage of her 
overall monthly PPI premium. The amount charged for this element however, was below the 
threshold set by the regulator and so Im afraid Miss C isnt due anything back for this either.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C.
my decision
I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint or make any award in favour of her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman