DRN-3439463
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice/service provided by Lincolnshire Independent Financial
Advisers Ltd, referred to as the business.
In summary, he says:
Hes concerned about the advice to invest in the Transact and Nucleus portfolios.
He was misled about the charges and how much hed receive when he requested the 
encashment of these investments.
Hes also concerned about previous errors in relation to the Nucleus portfolio
Mr W is claiming substantial financial loss.
What happened
In early April 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
provisionally, Im going to partially uphold this complaint.
One the face of the evidence, I think the business failed to explain to Mr W the concept of 
forward pricing, therefore, I think it should pay him £350 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. However, I dont think this entitles Mr W to the losses claimed.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr W and the business, and reach what I think
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Like the investigator, Im unable to safely say that the recommendation to invest several
hundred thousand pounds in the Transact and Nucleus platforms was unsuitable. On
balance Im satisfied that the recommendation met Mr Ws objective for growth.
I note that having recently divorced and sold his property, Mr W had access to a substantial
sum of money, even after investing, and had reasonable capacity for loss. I note Mr W
planned to rent long term rather than buy another property and spend his time between the 
UK and abroad. The investment didnt affect his quality of life.
Im aware that Mr W had put aside a large sum of cash for expenditure so didnt need
access to his investment. It was also noted that he might work in future, as he was bored, so
he could top up his money if need be.
Overall, Im satisfied that he was in a reasonably good position to invest a large sum of 
money for a period of five years and take a risk.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr W was risk averse and didnt want to take a risk with
this money. Im mindful that he had 20 or so years of previous investment experience, so 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the risks involved.
I note it was finally agreed, considering his capacity for loss, that he had a moderately
adventurous attitude to risk, which I cant say was unsuitable given his plans and objectives.
I note the adviser said that he and Mr W had many discussions about risk, volatility and the
short, and long term, performance returns. And at no point did Mr W demonstrate a lack of
understanding, and regularly challenged what he wasnt sure of.
I also note the adviser says that he had four meetings with Mr W in the days leading up to
him signing the application forms, and that Mr W was provided with Illustrations and terms
and conditions. Ive no reason to doubt that this was the case. I note Mr W wasnt happy with
previous portfolios so was keen to invest for his future.
Based on what he says, the thrust of Mr Ws complaint is about the encashment of the 
Transact portfolio and the value he received compared to what he thought hed receive.
I note the adviser was on his way into the office at or around 10.15am on 6 March 2020,
when Mr W called his mobile phone to provide instructions. The instructions were
subsequently conveyed to the provider at or around 10:45am from the advisers office and it
was made clear that it was an urgent matter. I understand that the system generated a
confirmation of trade which the adviser forwarded at or around 10:48am and Mr W confirmed
receipt. In the circumstances, I cant say that the adviser behaved unreasonably immediately 
in response to Mr Ws instructions.
Based on what the provider says it seems that by this time some of the dealing points  for
some of Mr Ws holdings within his portfolio  had already passed, so his portfolio was sold
at the next available dealing point, in this case on Monday 9 March 2020. Whilst I appreciate
Mr Ws anguish, the process isnt something that I can hold the business responsible for,
and neither is the amount that Mr W eventually received upon settlement.
I understand that the encashment value will have been unknown until the encashment had
completed so the value wasnt guaranteed. In other words, the money Mr W received upon
encashment wasnt as a result of something the business did wrong, it was the money that 
he was entitled to.
I also acknowledge that without the benefit of hindsight, the business couldnt have been
able to control or predict that end figure, neither could it have been able to predict or control
the impact of a global pandemic, for which it isnt responsible, which also probably had an
impact on the value of Mr Ws investments.
The above notwithstanding, I dont think the process of forward pricing was explained to Mr
W to manage his expectations with regards to what he might receive upon encashment and
why. The value Mr W saw on the advisers computer was from the previous day, because
the Transact portfolio operates on a forward pricing basis as explained above  but this 
wasnt fully explained to Mr W. Instead, I think he was probably led to believe thats the sortof figure hed receive. In the circumstances I dont think this oversight should go unmarked.
In my opinion the adviser failing to explain forward pricing is whats at the centre of Mr Ws
distress and anguish, and probably why he feels hes been defrauded by the business. So,
in the circumstances I think the business should pay him £350 compensation for the distress
and inconvenience caused.
If the process had been explained and hed known the price for the next day  although I
dont think the latter was possible  on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite
what Mr W says, I dont think he wouldve done things differently, and thats why I dont think
the business is responsible for paying any losses claimed.
I appreciate what Mr W says about the investigator not knowing him, or not knowing what he
wouldve done if hed been told that the price on the screen on Friday 6 March 2020 wasnt
guaranteed due to forward pricing. I accept that without the benefit of hindsight its
impossible to know for sure what Mr W wouldve done, however as I said above on a
balance of probabilities I think its more likely than not that Mr W wouldve gone ahead with
the encashment.
Even though the value wasnt guaranteed, there was nothing to say that Mr W would
(definitely) incur losses either. Im also not persuaded that Mr W decided to encash his
portfolios based solely on the values he saw. Im mindful that the matter was urgent, and he
was desperate to sell that day. With the power of hindsight, Im aware that the markets
continued to drop for some time. Understandably, Mr W was concerned about the value of
his investment at the time and was unlikely to want to incur any further losses on his
investment.
It seems the adviser previously complained on behalf of Mr W in relation to Nucleus,
following Mr Ws instructions to encash on 6 March 2020. I note the adviser had spotted a
problem with its on-screen valuations across a number of accounts which the adviser
thought had adversely affected Mr Ws position. I note Nucleus upheld that complaint and Mr
W was paid compensation.
Whilst Im unable to comment upon the actions of Nucleus, and whether (or not) the
compensation was paid directly out of the advisers own account, this previous incident isnt
evidence that the business made the same mistake with the Transact instructions. From
what Ive seen the issues arent the same and so I cant say the business is responsible in
this instance.
I appreciate what Mr W says about the charges, but Ive seen nothing to persuade me that
he was being charged 6.23%, or an amount that the business wasnt entitled to charge,
regardless of percentage. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W
says, Ive also seen nothing to suggest that a charge of 1.25% was agreed with the
business. Ive seen no evidence to support either of these assertions.
A business is  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  entitled
to set its own fees. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs, providing the fees
have been made reasonably clear to its customers.
In this instance, and on balance, Im satisfied that the key documentation provided made
reasonably clear the charges that applied. I also think its likely that Mr W agreed to these
charges before going ahead with the investment. But, if Mr W didnt read the key
documentation, its not something I can blame the business for. I note the adviser refers to 
heated discussions with Mr W about fees, in which the adviser again explained what the 
fees were.Im also aware that that adviser initially said that his fees were 1% of all funds invested, but
Mr W disagreed with this, so it was agreed that hed pay a flat fee of £3,000 for all
transactions  Ive no reason to think that this is inaccurate or incorrect. I understand this
sum was taken out of the investment rather than being paid by Mr W separately.
I note £3,000 equates to 0.75% of Mr Ws initial investment, and 0.6% of his total
investment. I note that no subsequent initial fees were charged or paid. Im mindful that a fee
of even 6% would equate to around £24,000 which isnt what Mr W paid. I note the adviser
has made clear that hes received no payments directly from Mr W or any of Mr Ws 
investments other than what was agreed and stated on the application forms.
Im mindful of Mr Ws latest comments. I understand that hes had meetings with the police
and fraud department and intends to pursue this matter with their cooperation through the
courts, naming our organisation as party to fraud. Mr W is free to do as he pleases, and this
isnt something that I can comment upon. However, I can safely say that our service hasnt
been a part of any fraud.
I appreciate Mr W will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I
appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything other
than pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold
this complaint and give Mr W what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider. 
Mr W responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he said I had 
ignored the fact that he had a letter signed letter confirming hed receive what was on the 
screen and therefore our service is complicit in the fraud. 
The business also responded but had no further points to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied that no new material points have been made that persuade me 
to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
Im sorry Mr W doesnt agree with my decision, but for the reasons explained I dont think 
hes entitled to the losses claimed. 
Notwithstanding the letter referred to by Mr W, any suggestion that he was entitled to what 
was on the screen  displaying figures from the previous day  is incorrect. And any 
suggestion that he wouldve done things differently  had he been aware  is not something 
Im persuaded by. And given how the process works, on balance Im satisfied that Mr W 
received the money he was entitled to.  I still dont think the process of forward pricing was explained to Mr W to manage his 
expectations with regards to what he might receive upon encashment and why. Instead, I 
think he was probably led to believe that the figure on screen was the sort of figure hed 
receive. And thats why I said I dont think this oversight should go unmarked.
I appreciate Mr W will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive maintained my decision. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im only going to ask the business to pay him £350 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr W what he wants.
Putting things right
Lincolnshire Independent Financial Advisers Ltd should pay Mr W £350 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Lincolnshire Independent Financial Advisers Ltd should pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman