DRN-2837469
The complaint
Ms W complains about the service she received from Ageas Retail Limited (Ageas) after 
she inadvertently cancelled the direct debit mandate she had set up with it for the payment  
on a monthly basis  of her car insurance premium.
What happened
In February 2021 Ms W inadvertently cancelled the direct debit mandate set up with Ageas 
for the payment  on a monthly basis  of her car insurance premium.
On being notified of the cancelation Ageas asked Ms W to contact it to avoid her policy being 
cancelled.
Ms W was able to reinstate the direct debit mandate with Ageas and avoid her policy being 
cancelled. But she says she should have been able to reinstate the direct debit mandate 
on-line rather than having to phone Ageas on two separate occasions, once on the 
26 February 2021 to reinstate the direct debit mandate and once on 4 March 2021 to pay her 
March 2021 premium by card.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that having 
paid her £25 Ageas need do nothing further.
Ms W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Secondly, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ms W says she should have been able to reinstate the direct debit mandate on-line. Now I 
appreciate this might have been more convenient for Ms W, but this isnt a service that 
Ageas ever said to Ms W it offered. Furthermore, given that Ageas offered Ms W the option 
of telephoning to reinstate her direct debit, and she did so, I dont think it was a service 
Ageas was under any obligation to offer. I think it should also be remembered that It was 
Ms W that inadvertently cancelled the mandate here, not Ageas.
Ms W says she had to wait 15 minutes to be connected to an Ageas representative on 
26 February 2021 and 10 minutes to be connected on 4 March 2021. But I dont think this 
represents a level of service on the part of Ageas that, in itself, warrants the payment of any 
compensation. In my view this isnt an unreasonable period of time to have to wait to be 
connected to a representative, especially given the current climate in which financial 
businesses are having to operate. 
I also think its worth noting that although Ms W was required to wait 10 minutes on 
4 March 2021 to be connected to a representative, its my understanding that she was only 
required to make this call because she was unable to take one of four calls made by Ageas 
to her on 3 March 2021.
Notwithstanding that I dont think Ageas should have to compensate Ms W for having to 
make the two calls that she did (although it has already paid her £25 in respect of the same) 
I would add that we dont normally make awards for time spent based on a consumers 
hourly rate of pay. Rather, we consider the overall impact time spent has had on a 
consumer. I also think its worth pointing out that Ageas lines appear to be open until 8.00pm 
Monday to Friday and for several hours on a Saturday allowing policyholders the option of 
calling at a time that is convenient for them and at a time when they arent working.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that Im satisfied that Ageas hasnt 
breached any of its regulatory obligations under PRIN 2.1 of the FCA Handbook in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman