DRN-3503387
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc (trading as Whistletree) granted a Covid-19 payment 
deferral on his joint mortgage account without his consent.
What happened
Mr F holds a joint mortgage with his ex-wife (Mrs F). When they separated in 2009 Mr F 
moved out of the security property. Mrs F remains living there and makes the mortgage 
payments.
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released
specific guidance for mortgage lenders  including allowing customers to defer up to a
maximum of six-monthly mortgage payments. Where a payment deferral is offered, the
lender needs to ensure that a consumer is given adequate information to understand any
implications this may have.
In April 2020 Mr F told Whistletree that he did not consent to any requests for a payment 
deferral that may be made by his ex-wife. Mr F was concerned that any deferred payments 
combined with a downturn in the housing market could push the property into negative 
equity and have financial implications on him upon its sale. He also says that his ex-wifes 
financial circumstances were not significantly impacted by Covid-19, so any payment 
deferrals were not necessary.
Whistletree approved a payment deferral for May 2020 at the request of Mrs F. When Mr F 
received a letter about this, he called Whistletree to raise his concerns which led to a formal 
complaint being made. 
Whistletree responded to the complaint which wasnt upheld. It said the FCA had relaxed the 
payment deferral rules in response to Covid-19, allowing agreement by just one party to the 
loan during these special circumstances. Whistletree offered to cancel the payment deferral 
if Mr F was able to maintain the contractual monthly payments himself. He didnt agree to 
this, so the payment deferral remained in place. A further payment deferral was agreed for 
June 2020 at Mrs Fs request. 
Mr F says he subsequently called the FCA to seek clarity on the guidance and received 
conflicting information in relation to joint account holder consent. Mr F raised a further 
complaint about this which Whistletree escalated to TSB. Mr F says he had to chase 
whistletee on a few occasions as promised call backs werent adhered to. It wasnt until 
March 2021 that he discovered TSB had already reviewed the complaint and the decision 
remained unchanged. Mr F was unhappy he wasnt made aware of this sooner.
Unhappy with Whistletrees response and how it handed his complaint, Mr F brought his 
complaint to our service. An investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. 
She thought Whistletree had acted in accordance with the rules set by the FCA when 
agreeing the payment deferral. So that part of the complaint wasnt upheld. But she did think 
that Mr F should be compensated for the shortfalls in the service received. She thought £150 
was fair in the circumstances.
Mr F didnt agree. He provided various reasons why he thought Whistletrees actions went 
against the law and the FCAs rules and principles. Our investigator responded to Mr Fs 
concerns, but her option remained unchanged. Mr F remained unhappy and asked for the 
matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr F feels strongly about whats happened and I appreciate hes gone to a lot of 
effort to support the arguments hes made. Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made before arriving at my decision. But I wont be addressing every single 
point raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this 
complaint.
When reaching my decision, Ive considered whether Whistletree has acted in accordance 
with the FCAs guidance to firms during the Covid-19 pandemic. It is not my role to comment 
on or determine on how that guidance has been decided by the FCA.
The FCA guidance said that where a consumer is experiencing or is reasonably expected to 
experience difficulties making their mortgage payments due to Covid-19, a lender is 
expected to grant a consumer a payment deferral.
The guidance makes clear that in these circumstances, the customer should be granted a 
payment deferral without the need to make detailed enquiries into their circumstances. This 
was so firms could quickly and easily react to the volume of customers needing help at the 
time. Lenders were also generally expected to offer a payment deferral in circumstances 
where only one joint borrowers income was impacted. The guidance doesnt say that both 
parties need to confirm this.
Mr F says that Mrs Fs financial circumstances werent impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, 
so she didnt need the payment deferral. Mrs F is not a party to this complaint so Im unable 
to comment on her personal circumstances here. But in any event, as mentioned, 
Whistletree wasnt required by the FCA to assess affordability. So, I cant say it did anything 
wrong by approving the payment deferrals without carrying out further checks. 
Mr F and Mrs F wanted different things here. Whistletree cant favour one customers 
request over another. What it should do, is act in accordance with the guidance. 
In this case the joint borrower living in the property, who was making the mortgage 
payments, contacted her lender for help during the pandemic. She asked for payment 
deferrals. In line with the guidance, this was granted. 
I can understand why, from Mr Fs perspective, he feels the deferred mortgage payments 
puts him into an unfair financial position and I do sympathise with the circumstances hes 
explained in regards to a potential shortfall that hell be partly liable for upon sale of the 
property. Whilst I dont doubt these specific circumstances may apply here. Its not 
something I can hold Whistletree responsible for, as I cant say it has acted against the 
guidance or has done anything wrong when agreeing to the payment deferrals. Any lasting 
implications of the payment deferrals in relation to any martial dispute is a civil matter 
between the parties and not something that Whistletree has any responsibility for. 
The guidance says that during the initial (maximum) six months deferral period, a borrowers 
credit file shouldnt be impacted by any payment deferrals. The alternative to a payment deferral would mean payments being missed. The account would go into arrears and this 
would affect both Mr and Mrs Fs credit files. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Whistletree to look to avoid this, by granting payment deferrals. Especially as Mr F said he 
would not make the payments himself. 
Whistletree made Mr F aware of the payment deferrals by writing to him at his home address 
in the preceding months. I consider the content of these letters to include adequate 
information to understand any possible implications and next steps, including re-calculating 
the contractual monthly payments once the deferral period ended. 
Although not part of his initial complaint, Mr F has more recently said that Whistletree failed 
to explain the implications of capitalising the deferred payment amounts. Ive asked 
Whistletree to confirm the necessary letters were sent. It has provided copies of the letters 
(following both deferrals) sent directly to Mr F on 18 May 2020 and 16 June 2020. Im 
satisfied both letters met the requirements previously explained by our investigator. 
Mr F has given various reasons why he thinks the actions of Whistletree were unlawful. As 
Ive explained it hasnt acted unfairly or contrary to the guidance set by the FCA. Any 
concerns that the guidance itself is not fit for purpose is not something I have the power to 
consider.  
So, when considering everything, I cant say Whistletree did anything wrong by granting the 
payment deferrals and Im satisfied it did enough to keep Mr F, as the joint borrower, 
informed about the agreement.   
Putting things right
When considering the general service provided, our investigator thought Whistletree could 
have done more in the circumstances. She said, knowing what it did, it could have discussed 
the option of Mr F making the payments himself sooner to mitigate any effects of the 
payment deferral. She also said that Whistletree could have been in clearer about the 
provision for agreement by one party and that it caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience by not responding to Mr Fs concerns sooner. She thought £150 fairly 
compensated Mr F.
I wont be awarding any more. I say this because Im not persuaded Whistletree acting 
differently in relation to the first point would have made a difference in the circumstances, as 
Mr F wasnt willing to make the payments himself in any event. I do agree there was an 
element of trouble and upset caused in relation to the other points mentioned, leading to Mr 
F having to make unnecessary telephone calls to the FCA and Whistletree to follow up on 
the outcome of his complaint. When considering everything I agree £150 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to reflect the impact on Mr F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint direct TSB Bank plc (trading as Whistletree) 
to pay £150 compensation to Mr F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman