DRN-1984651
The complaint
Mr O says that a used car he bought was not of satisfactory quality. Because he paid for it in 
part using his Tesco Bank credit card, he says that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should put 
things right.  
What happened
In July 2018 Mr O bought a used car from a dealer, Mr P. He paid a total of £5,200 - £200 
using his Tesco Bank credit card, £2,800 with a debit card and £3,000 by way of part 
exchange of his sons car. Mr P agreed to include a 12-month third party warranty as part of 
the deal. The car was to be driven by Mr Os son, who became the registered keeper.
In November 2018 the car broke down, due to the timing chain jumping. Mr O explained 
what had happened to Mr P. He did not accept however that he was responsible for the 
problems with the car and referred Mr O to the warranty provider.
Mr O then referred the matter to Tesco Bank. He said that Tesco Bank was equally liable 
with Mr P because he had used his credit card to pay some of the cars purchase price. 
Tesco Bank did not accept that. It said, in summary:
The car was registered in the name of Mr Os son, so the relevant provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 did not apply. 
The seller was Mr P, but the card payment had been made to a business, A. Again, that 
meant that Mr O did not have the necessary legislative protection.
In any event, Mr O had not shown that any faults with the car were present at the time 
of sale.
Mr O referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought that Mr O did have the protection of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 but was not persuaded that Mr O had been supplied with a car that was not 
of satisfactory quality. He did not recommend that Tesco Bank do anything more to put 
matters right. Mr O did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 here is that, if Mr O has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against the seller of the car and the sale was 
financed (in whole or in part) by arrangements between the seller and Tesco Bank, he has a 
like claim against Tesco Bank. A successful claim for breach of contract might result in a full 
or partial refund, the cost of repairs, or more; a claim under section 75 is not therefore limited 
to a refund of the amount paid with the card.
Tesco Bank suggested that Mr O did not have a claim against the seller, because the car 
was intended for his son. Mr Os son was the registered keeper and his old car was used in 
part exchange. It does not however follow that he, rather than Mr O, was the buyer. The 
invoice was made out to Mr O, who appears to have been involved in all the negotiations. I 
am satisfied that the sale contract was between Mr P and Mr O.
Tesco Bank also noted that the payment appeared on Mr Os credit card statement as being 
made to A, not Mr P. A is not however a company or any kind of legal entity in its own right. 
Indeed, Tesco Banks own notes refer to it as a trading name of Mr P. That is, it and Mr P 
are one and the same. 
The sale of the car by Mr P to Mr O was therefore financed in part by credit supplied to Mr O 
by Tesco Bank; Mr P in turn had arrangements with Tesco Bank which allowed him to 
accept payment from Mr O by credit card. The combination of those arrangements means 
that Mr O could have a claim against Tesco Bank under section 75. I must therefore 
consider what he says about the quality of the car. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the contract for the sale of the car was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That is, it should have been of 
the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the circumstances. Those circumstances 
include matters such as the cars age, mileage and price. 
In this case the car was around nine years old when Mr O bought it and it had covered 
around 129,000 miles. Its price reflected that. 
Mr O said that, if an item is faulty within the first six months after purchase, it is to be 
assumed that it was faulty at the point of sale. However, that is not quite right. The first test 
is not whether the item was faulty, but whether it complied with the contract for sale. In this 
case that means whether the car was of satisfactory quality. Because that concept takes into 
account the overall circumstances, an item can be less than perfect but still be of satisfactory 
quality.  
I must therefore consider whether the fault that developed meant that the car was not of the 
quality a reasonable person would expect. I do not believe that a reasonable person would 
expect a car of the age and mileage of Mr Os car to be entirely fault-free. Most people 
would, I think, expect it to need some repairs at some point; it is possible too that serious 
faults might develop, requiring significant and expensive repairs. Mr O has said that repairs 
might cost in the region of £3,000 to £4,000. 
Mr O has identified some commentary reporting that a timing chain should generally last for 
the lifetime of the car. I do not however take that to mean that this will always be the case. 
As the investigator noted, it is not clear exactly what caused the issue with the timing chain, 
but there are a number of possibilities; some of those are wear and tear or maintenance 
related. Like the investigator, however, I am not persuaded that the faults with the car meant 
that it was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
I note too that the car was supplied with a 12-month third party warranty. The seller, Mr P, 
did not give the warranty, but a separate provider did; it was a form of insurance against 
faults that might develop in the first 12 months after the sale. Mr P encouraged Mr O to 
contact the warranty provider, but it does not appear that he did so. 
I am required to determine Mr Os complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So, even if I were to reach a different conclusion about 
the quality of the car, I might take the view that it would not be fair to require Tesco Bank to 
put things right in circumstances where he might have an alternative remedy against the 
warranty provider.    My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman