DRN-3319788
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt send him his statement history when he closed 
his account. He said that because he didnt have this financial information, he wasnt able to 
take up new rented accommodation. So he wanted Monzo to pay £500 for this.
What happened
Our service asked Monzo what had happened. It said that Mr P closed his account in 
January 2021. In July 2021, it had written to Mr P to say it should have sent him statements 
straight after the account was closed, and it hadnt done that. This letter said Monzo was 
sorry, and it could send the statements on to him. 
But Monzo asked for evidence of Mr Ps identity before it would release this information. This 
was to make sure that it was keeping his information secure. Monzos letter set out two ways 
that Mr P could show Monzo that he was actually the former account holder. Monzo said Mr 
P didnt want to send this information, and it wouldnt release his statements without it.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said Monzo didnt send Mr Ps transaction 
history to him after the account was closed. And she couldnt see Mr P had then been in 
touch with Monzo to ask for his statements. When Monzo got in touch with Mr P, it offered 
two options to get his statements, and told him what details hed need to provide for either 
option. Our investigator noted that banks do have to protect their customers from fraud. 
Our investigator understood that Mr P wouldnt provide those details. So our investigator 
didnt think that any consequences of this would then be Monzos fault. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said we hadnt considered all of the evidence, and he said Monzo had 
been found to have failed to issue statements to its former customers. So he thought we 
should have upheld his complaint. 
Our investigator asked Mr P to send evidence of any contact he had with Monzo asking for 
his statements, before Monzo contacted him to offer them. Mr P said hed written several 
times to Monzo, and hed called a number of times. He wanted us to look into this. Mr P 
didnt send any further evidence of the calls or letters, and he said the number he called from 
would be either withheld, or a one-time only number, generated by calling over the internet.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Mr P wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. I dont think it 
should be upheld. Ill explain why I think that.
Mr P has told us he asked Monzo for his statements, when they werent provided to him on 
the closure of his account. He has told us he sent numerous letters, and rang Monzo many 
times. Our investigator asked Mr P to send evidence of this. Mr P hasnt offered any call 
records, or dates of calls, and he hasnt sent us copies of any letters or proof of posting for 
this correspondence. 
Our service also asked Monzo about this, and it hasnt been able to find any details of this 
contact from Mr P. 
I understand Mr P has set out clearly for our service that he did contact Monzo and ask for 
his statements after the account was closed, and before Monzo wrote to him to offer him 
statements. But there is no further evidence to support that these requests were made, and 
no reference to these earlier requests from Mr P in the communications I do have between 
Monzo and Mr P about the missing statements. So, like our investigator, I havent been able 
to see clearly that Mr P had already been in touch with Monzo to ask for this information, 
before it contacted him. 
Without direct evidence to show that Mr P had been in touch with Monzo to ask for his 
statements, I have to decide, on the evidence I have, whats most likely to have happened. I 
have considered the evidence, and in particular, Mr Ps representations to our service, 
carefully. But, on balance, Im not able to say that its more likely than not that Mr P did 
repeatedly contact Monzo to ask for his statements to be sent to him, before Monzo 
contacted him about this. 
I do understand that Monzo should just have sent Mr P statements when his account was 
closed, and it didnt do that. But I dont think Monzo needs to pay Mr P compensation just 
because of that.
When Monzo did offer to send Mr P his statements, it asked for further information to identify 
him, and I can see that Mr P said he didnt have to provide this. I do think that the request for 
identification that Monzo made at this point was reasonable. And I note that at this stage, Mr 
P was asking for compensation, not for the statements themselves. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman