DRN-3989074
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his accounts but wouldnt provide a reasonable 
way for him to withdraw his account balance. He wants Lloyds to send the funds to his 
alternative account or by cheque.
 
What happened
In February 2020 Lloyds told Mr S it was blocking his transactions and closing his accounts 
in two months time. Lloyds said Mr S would need to withdraw his balance of £1,500 at the 
branch, with proof of his identity and the origin of the funds. Lloyds then closed the account.
Mr S said hed been abroad since October 2019 and had no plans to return to the UK, but 
Lloyds wont allow him to obtain funds by other means. He said it wasnt economic to travel 
just to obtain the funds. He said other banks have workable arrangements for withdrawal of 
funds from closed accounts, such as by cheque, internet banking, or use of a debit card. 
Mr S said it had been vital to access his money during the covid pandemic and a subsequent 
serious illness. He said Lloyds told him that the funds are only available when he can collect 
them personally. Mr S complained to Lloyds that it wont be flexible and sort things out.
In its response to Mr Ss complaint Lloyds said it gave him the correct amount of time under 
the agreement to withdraw his funds and this would need to be at one of its branches. 
Mr S was dissatisfied with this response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Lloyds provided the 
notice period required and Mr S should attend a branch, as requested, to obtain his funds.
Mr S wasnt happy with the outcome and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said he was already abroad when told him of the account closure. He said he was happy to 
provide his ID remotely and that the funds are clean and the bank confirmed to me as well. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds can decide who it wants to deal with as a customer, but must follow the process set 
out within the accounts terms and conditions. The terms and conditions for Mr Ss account 
allows the bank to close the account and I have seen that Lloyds gave Mr S the required 
period of notice. 
Mr S now lives abroad and so it is difficult for him to deal with his account as required by 
Lloyds. Lloyds has explained to us that it needs Mr S to come to a branch to withdraw his 
funds so that it can verify his identity and to prove where the money came from. 
Its clear that Lloyds wants to know about the origin of the funds and to ensure it goes to the 
rightful owner. From what Ive seen Lloyds has followed the correct process in the closure of 
Mr Ss account and I think its requirement about the release of his funds is reasonable. 
Although I understand Mr Ss frustration, from what Ive seen, Lloyds has treated him fairly 
and reasonably, and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account, and so I 
cant ask Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman