DRN-2919528
The complaint
 Ms C complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) blocked both a faster payment shed 
instructed them to make and her entire account and they delayed in resolving the problem 
when she contacted them.
 
What happened
 Ms C brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the final response to her 
complaint from Santander about the payment shed called and asked them to make on 28 
August 2020.  
Santander told Ms C shed been given incorrect information on 28 August 2020 when she 
called to make the payment and when she spoke to a fraud advisor in later that day.  They 
also said theyd given her incorrect information the following day when she called and spoke 
to another fraud advisor who told her the problems would be resolved by 9pm that day. 
Santander told Ms C, as shed made them aware the payment was urgent, they should have 
referred the payment as time sensitive in order for it to be updated as soon as possible. But 
they also said as there were many payments for customers being time sensitive there were 
no exact timescales they could give to customers, although they would endeavour to resolve 
the issue as soon as possible. But they didnt agree their advisor was required to give their 
full name or staff ID as Ms C asked. They told her if the time and date of a call was 
documented and sent to them with this information a call could be located and reviewed as 
part of any complaint.     
During our investigation Santander told us although the payment had been released on 30 
August 2020, which was within the faster payment timescales, they acknowledged conflicting 
information had been given during the payment journey for the customer and they offered to 
pay Ms C £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused.     
Ms C told us she thought Santander should pay £750 compensation and take a number of 
steps to put things right as follows.
She no longer receives SMS that ask her to take action in the future
All staff must provide their full name, location and staff number
Staff should know the correct timescales/opening hours for the fraud department
Santander should offer direct contact to the complaints team
Santander should make improvements to their website displaying timestamps for 
each transaction
Santander shouldnt block a whole account when they block a transaction, she 
doesnt think this is justified and wanted this changed                                                                                                                                                
Our investigator upheld Ms Cs complaint and thought Ms Cs unique circumstances meant 
the compensation of £100 offered wasnt enough. But he also set out a number elements of 
the request Ms S had made to remedy this situation that werent in a position to ask 
Santander to change. He said he couldnt instruct Santander to tell their staff they have to 
provide staff numbers, or how they should be trained in general. Nor could he tell Santander 
what department contact details should be available to consumers and what improvements 
they should make to their website. But he did think Santander should increase the amount of 
compensation to £250. He thought the incident had a great impact on Ms C as she was 
unable to use her bathroom for a considerable amount of time whilst she was recovering 
from an illness. And that it would have been extremely embarrassing for her having to 
contact the builders to ask why they hadnt shown up for work on 29 August only to be told 
they hadnt been paid by her. 
Santander told us they would be willing to increase the compensation to £250 in total. Ms C 
told us there were a few facts in the view that were incorrect. She said she only found the 
entire account was blocked when she tried to make an unrelated payment to an entirely 
different payee. She said shes asked Santander from the beginning of this issue not to send 
SMS as her phone had been compromised and she was receiving scam messages so it was 
impossible for her to separate those from genuine messages. She thought the compensation 
amount should be commensurate with the seriousness of the situation and the far-reaching 
impact it had on her health and home situation. She remained of the view the compensation 
amount of £750 was fair and justified.
Ms C told us she would like to escalate the case to an ombudsman. On the issue of the 
receiving the SMS alerts she said she was 100 per cent sure she would like to opt out of the 
facility. But as she had internet access to her accounts, she wanted to explore if Santander 
could send her secure messages through her accounts plus a hardcopy letter to inform her 
of the status of her account. 
In response to Ms Cs request to stop SMS alerts Santander have recently told us Ms C can 
opt out of SMS alerts  she will need to contact them by phone to do this. But theyve also 
said they think its unadvisable to do so as it wont mean transactions will stop from being 
highlighted from time to time, it just means Ms C wont receive a timely SMS if that happens. 
In respect of her request for a hard copy letter Santander told us highlighted transactions will 
not result in a letter being issued as contact, if deemed necessary, will be by phone from 
their fraud team. But if her request for a hard copy of the account status was for paper 
statements this could be arranged, but Ms C would need to contact them to request this.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in his letter 
giving his opinion. So I wont repeat that here and re iterate this complaint relates only to the 
payment requested on 28 August 2020. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what 
the investigators already told Ms C. I think hes covered most points quite clearly and I 
agree with his analysis and the overall outcome. Ill explain why I think that.
This service is an informal dispute resolution one  not the regulator for the financial 
industry. Thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, I agree with our investigator 
that there are some of Ms Cs request we cant help with as its not my role to ask a business 
to alter its procedures or policy; this is something their regulator, the FCA, can look into if 
they felt it was necessary. So, whilst I appreciate Ms C thinks a number of steps should be 
taken, thats a matter for the FCA.
Although in the strictest sense Santander made Ms Cs payment in line with Faster Payment 
timescales, they accept incorrect information was given here and that this transaction ought to have been marked as time sensitive. And, like the investigator, I think there were several 
points of contact here where this could have been remedied earlier but wasnt. I think the 
combination of the incorrect information and those missed opportunities caused worry, upset 
and embarrassment to Ms C. This was compounded as Ms C wasnt well at the time. The 
delay in payment meant the emergency works scheduled over a bank holiday didnt take 
place and Ms C was without a bathroom for that period. So, like the investigator I think 
Santander ought to increase the amount of compensation theyve offered here to reflect all 
of that. Overall, I think the suggested increase in the award of £250 is appropriate here. Its 
line with our guidelines and the sort of award Id have made had it not been suggested by 
our investigator.
Putting things right
 I think Santander ought to increase the amount of compensation theyve offered here to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. Overall, I think the suggested increase in the 
award of £250 is appropriate here. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Ms C £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect information given about the payment 
requested on 28 August 2020.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman