DRN-3098623
The complaint
Mr A complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on his car after a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr As car was damaged following an accident and esure said it was beyond economical 
repair. esure provided Mr A with a valuation of his car from the motor trade guides we use. It 
considered four guides and provided an average of the values - £6,986. Mr A was unhappy 
with this valuation. He said esures offer wouldnt be enough to buy a similar car because it 
was a limited edition (only 600 were made) and the advertised selling prices were much 
higher.  
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He said in this instance Mr A had 
provided persuasive evidence from advertised selling prices, of similar limited-edition cars, 
which showed esures offer wasnt fair in this instance. After considering Mr As evidence, 
and doing his own research using the trade guides, our investigator felt esure should offer 
Mr A the valuation of £8,641 provided by one of the trade guides  Cazana  because this 
was much closer to the advertised selling prices. 
The investigator added that Mr A had used the car for work and had been inconvenienced as 
a result of not being able to use his car or buy a similar make and model due to esures offer. 
So, our investigator said Mr A should receive £10 per day towards the cost of his transport 
from 22 June 2021  which is when esure said it wouldnt increase its offer to Mr A - for the 
inconvenience caused. And that esure should provide a retention value of the car based 
upon the Cazana valuation for Mr A to consider. 
Mr A accepted the investigators opinion. But esure disagreed. It said it had provided a fair 
valuation of the car from the trade guides. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but consider whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor 
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. 
As well as considering what the terms and conditions say, the role of this service is to also 
consider whether Mr A has been treated fairly. And this service also expects esure to pay 
Mr A the cost of replacing his car with a similar one. But Im not persuaded he would be able 
to do that with the offer provided by esure.
I accept esure has provided a valuation within those set out by the majority of the trade 
guides. I believe this is in keeping with our usual approach to car valuations. But I would still 
expect esure to have considered if there was any increase in value due to the car being a 
limited-edition model. 
Mr A provided advertised prices of similar limited-edition cars that were for sale and were for 
a similar amount to the valuation provided by Cazana. Ive considered the adverts carefully.  
Having done so, generally the cars for sale are consistent with the valuation provided by 
Cazana and the majority of them have a higher mileage than Mr As car. As a result, Im 
more persuaded by the valuation provided by Cazana for this limited-edition car. So, I 
believe this is a fair and reasonable way to consider the car being a limited-edition model. 
Mr A has mentioned the inconvenience he has suffered due to being without his car. He said 
he used the car to travel to work. The investigator felt an award of £10 per day was fair here. 
esure has said there isnt enough evidence to decide whether Mr A did use the car to travel 
to work and this service cant base its decision solely on Mr As testimony. 
But this service will consider a customers testimony as evidence. And Ive not seen anything 
to make me doubt what Mr A has said in relation to how he used his car. Ive noted that the 
mileage of Mr As car at the last MOT (October 2020) was around 65,000, but at the time of 
the accident - in May 2021 - it was 71,000. So, Im satisfied  on balance  Mr A does use 
the car above the national average which would include using it to get to work. As a result, I 
believe esure should make a payment of £10 per day from 22 June 2021.  
Mr A has requested esure provide him with a retention value for his car based upon the 
Cazana valuation. I think thats a fair request. 
Putting things right
Im not satisfied esure has valued Mr As car fairly and I believe it should increase its offer to 
£8,641, less the policy excess. And offer a retention value based upon this new valuation. 
It should also pay Mr A £10 per day from 22 June 2021 to the date of settlement for the 
inconvenience of being without his car. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman