DRN-2374565
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the delays and poor service provided by Assurant General Insurance 
Limited (Assurant) in relation to a claim he made for a damaged mobile phone.
What happened
 Mr K has a bank current account which includes a Tech Pack covering loss, damage or 
theft for his mobile phone.
On 14 October 2019, Mr K contacted Assurant to register a claim as the phone had slipped 
out of his hand causing damage to the screen and had speaker problems. The claim was 
accepted, Mr K paid the £100 excess and arrangements were made to send the device to 
the repair centre.
On 20 May 2020, Mr K contacted Assurant as he hadnt been able to send the phone due to 
illness and arrangements were made for a courier to collect the device. The phone was sent 
was received on 26 May. The phone was looked at and was then sent to Apples repair 
centre on 29 May. It was repaired and returned to Mr K on 2 June.
On 8 June, Mr K contacted Assurant to inform them the phone had been sent to the wrong 
address and the phone had no life. A doorstep exchange was arranged with Mr K, it 
apologised and Assurant confirmed the address would be updated.
The second phone Mr K received was a red one but he wanted a black one (which was the 
colour of his original phone). Mr K spoke to a manager and a second doorstep exchange 
was arranged and was received by Mr K on 12 June.
Unhappy with how the claim had been handled, Mr K made a complaint to Assurant. It 
agreed that errors had been made and paid Mr K £75 compensation for the failings. 
Mr K didnt think £75 reflected a fair assessment of what happened and brought the 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and said based on everything thats 
happened, he thought a total compensation of £150 was fair and reasonable. So he 
recommended that Assurant compensate Mr K for an additional £75. Assurant accepted the 
investigators findings. Mr K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr K would like further compensation for the trouble and upset thats been caused. He would 
like a refund of the premium hes paid and the excess of £100 to be refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether Assurant did everything it should have in line with 
the terms and conditions and whether the £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see Assurant has made errors in sending the phone to the wrong address, it wasnt 
working even though itd been repaired and exchanges had to take place due to the errors. 
The phone call in June 2020 with one of Assurants advisers didnt provide good customer 
service. I agree therefore that the service Mr K received could have been better. Assurant 
reviewed his complaint and accepted that it could have dealt with the claim better and could 
have avoided the unnecessary delays and poor customer service. It apologised to Mr K and 
paid £75 compensation. Our investigator thought Assurant hadnt considered the phone call 
with the advisor and further impact so recommended a further £75 compensation to be paid 
to Mr K. Assurant accepted this and agreed with the investigator. 
I understand Mr K also received a red phone rather than a black phone which he had initially 
and wanted as a replacement. I appreciate this is frustrating and wasnt what Mr K wanted. 
However, the terms and conditions do say that a phone of the same colour cant be 
guaranteed. Assurant did decide to exchange the red phone for a black one and while I 
understand further inconvenience was caused, I think Assurant did put the issue right for 
Mr K. 
As such, Im satisfied that although Assurant wasnt obliged to send a replacement black 
phone, in the interest of good practice and providing good service, it agreed to replace the 
red phone.
Putting things right
Overall, having looked at all the available evidence, Im satisfied that the additional £75 is a 
fair reflection of what happened and, on the impact, caused to Mr K. 
A total of £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
dont think a refund of the premium or a refund of the excess is appropriate here. Assurant 
should pay Mr K the additional £75 if it hasnt done so already. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman