DRN-3944338
The complaint
Mr G complains that PrePay Technologies Limited did not inform him he would be charged a 
card inactivity fee.  
What happened
Mr G took out a prepaid card with PrePay and used it until September 2019. The card 
expired in September 2020 and from that point on, Mr G was charged an inactivity fee of £2 
per month. Mr G complained to PrePay as he was not informed that his card had expired 
and therefore did not know he needed to order a replacement, and he was not informed he 
would be charged an inactivity fee. He said that if he had known, he would have cashed out 
the balance to avoid it. He requested that PrePay reimburse the fees totalling £51.03.
PrePay issued a final response letter in which it explained that the inactivity fees had been 
applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions, so it did not agree to refund them.    
Mr G was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and agreed that the fees had been applied 
correctly, as set out in the terms and conditions of the account. They felt this had been 
clearly explained within the terms and conditions that would have been provided when Mr G 
took out his account. And they also said Mr G could have viewed his card expiry and 
statements showing the fee on his online account. So they did not think PrePay had made 
an error. 
Mr G disagreed with the outcome. He did not think it was reasonable to expect customers to 
remember all the fees that could be applied. He felt PrePay should have reminded him of 
important events such as the card expiring instead of him having to check online for it. And 
he did not think the card expiry information was available on the online account. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for broadly the same reasons, and I dont think 
PrePay needs to refund the account fees. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ive firstly considered whether the inactivity fees were applied correctly. Looking at the 
relevant terms and conditions for the account, they say: Fee charged after a 12-month 
period of you not using your card (either by topping up your card, paying for transactions or 
withdrawing money), including after your card has expired. No fee if you have a zero 
balance. And it lists the fee as £2 per month. 
PrePay has evidenced that Mr G last used his card on 28 September 2019 when it had a 
balance of €118.60 remaining and that the first inactivity fee was charged on 2 September 
2020. Looking at this, I can see the inactivity fees were charged after a 12-month period of 
Mr G not using his card and as there was a balance remaining, PrePay correctly began 
applying the £2 inactivity fee to the account. So, I cannot agree it has made an error in doing 
so. 
Ive gone on to consider if PrePay needed to do more to inform Mr G that his card had 
expired and that he would be charged the inactivity fee. PrePay has said that the expiry date 
for the card would have been printed onto the card itself. While I havent seen an image of 
this, as this is standard on most credit, debit and cash cards I see no reason to doubt what 
they have said. With this in mind, I dont think PrePay needed to do more to inform Mr G of 
the expiry date of the card. Though it should be noted that the inactivity fee would have been 
charged regardless of whether or not the card had expired. 
Regarding the inactivity fee, I do think that this was clearly set out in the terms and 
conditions of the account which Mr G agreed to when he signed up to the account. While I 
appreciate his comments that he should not be expected to remember all of the applicable 
charges, I do think it is reasonable that PrePay provided him with a list of the applicable 
charges in a durable format, in the form of the terms and conditions. Which Mr G could have 
referred back to if needed. 
On balance, I think PrePay applied the inactivity fees in line with the terms and conditions 
and that they made it reasonably clear what the fees and the expiry date of the card were.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against PrePay Technologies Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman