DRN-2148336
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his claim against his private 
medical insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Mr J has membership of a group, private medical insurance policy via his employer. Mr Js 
cover is on a continued medical exclusions basis, which means that the underwriting has 
been carried forward from a previous policy. There are two medical exclusions in relation to 
Mr Js cover: psoriasis and Low back pain and its cause.
On 24 and 29 October 2018, Mr J consulted his GP about low back pain and  plantar fasciitis 
respectively. 
One of the provisions of Mr Js membership is that he doesnt need to see a GP before 
making a claim for a musculoskeletal condition. On 16 November 2018, Mr J contacted 
Aviva about his heel pain. Aviva agreed to cover a referral to rheumatology. 
On 26 November 2018, Mr J contacted Aviva and said that his consultant had advised 
him that the issue with his heel pain may be connected to his lower back. Aviva 
authorised an MRI scan and a follow up appointment for Mr J. 
Following the MRI scan, the consultant rheumatologist said that Mr J has psoriasis with 
secondary ankylosing spondylitis and peripheral enthesitis. Aviva declined Mr Js further 
claim in relation to ankylosing spondylitis. It said that Mr Js ankylosing spondylitis was 
the cause of his lower back pain, which was excluded in the policy. Mr J didnt agree with 
Avivas decision. Aviva reviewed its position and looked at Mr Js medical history. Aviva 
didnt change its position. 
Mr J complains that Aviva told him on two separate occasions that his exclusion had 
expired. He says that Aviva took too long to deal with his complaint. Mr J says that he 
wasnt diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis until 2019, so he wouldnt have been able 
to declare it and he doesnt agree that Aviva were right to decline his claim. He says that 
hes been left without medical supervision for an extended period as hes been referred 
to the NHS. Mr J complains that Aviva didnt communicate with him throughout the whole 
process. He wants Aviva to remove the exclusion and cover treatment for his condition. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Aviva had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr Js claim. The investigator couldnt say that Aviva had told 
Mr J, incorrectly, that the exclusion had expired. He thought that Aviva had taken too 
long to asses Mr Js claim and said that fair compensation for that was £100. The 
investigator said that Aviva had offered to chase up information about Mr Js eye 
condition, if that was something he wished to pursue for future claims.  
Aviva agreed with the investigators view, but Mr J didnt. He responded to say:
On two occasions, Aviva told him that his exclusion had expired. After the first 
occasion, he told his wife who has relevant professional experience who said that 
didnt sound right. He called again and was again told that the exclusion had 
expired. He doesnt believe he misunderstood what he was told. The investigator 
found in Avivas favour when it conveniently couldnt provide the relevant call 
recordings.
When he originally took out private medical insurance he declared a short 
episode of low back pain that his physiotherapist said was muscular. His GP 
queried ankylosing spondylitis in his medical notes in 1989, but it was never 
mentioned to him and wasnt a confirmed diagnosis. Its not reasonable to 
assume that the low back pain he experienced in 1989 was caused by ankylosing 
spondylitis. 
Between 1989 and his diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis some 30 years have 
elapsed with no symptoms, mention or reference to that condition. He doesnt 
believe he was experiencing ankylosing spondylitis and doesnt believe its 
reasonable for Aviva to decline his claim.
The investigator considered what Mr J said but didnt change his view. Mr J asked that 
an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The powers of the Financial Ombudsman Service are set out in our rules, known as the 
DISP Rules. These come from the Financial Conduct Authority and, ultimately, from the 
Financial Services and Markets Act. Rule 2.3.1 sets out the matters that we can investigate 
and doesnt include complaint handling by insurers. So, I cant consider the part of Mr Js 
complaint about how Aviva handled his complaint. I realise Mr J will be disappointed by this, 
but I cant act outside my legal powers. I can consider how Aviva handled Mr Js claim and 
its decision to refuse cover. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
Mr Js membership provides cover for eligible treatment. The relevant rules and industry 
guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that Aviva treated Mr J unfairly in declining his claim, but I think that it didnt 
respond in a reasonable time, so Im upholding that part of his complaint. I say that because:
Ive seen from Mr Js medical notes that he contacted his GP on several occasions 
over the years about lower back pain. When he contacted Aviva in November 2018 it 
was initially about heel pain that his consultant indicated may be connected to his 
lower back
In his letter of 4 January 2019, the consultant rheumatologist who saw Mr J said that 
Mr J had lower back pain and went on to diagnose psoriasis with secondary 
ankylosing spondylitis and peripheral enthesitis. 
My role isnt to substitute the medical judgment of any of the medical professionals 
involved in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence Ive been provided with to decide whether I think Aviva handled the claim fairly and 
reasonably.
Aviva referred the matter to medical underwriting, which is what wed expect it to do. I 
dont think that Aviva treated Mr J unfairly in relying on the advice of its medical 
underwriters and concluding that ankylosing spondylitis caused Mr Js lower back 
pain. Thats a reasonable conclusion from the consultants report of 4 January 2019. 
As one of the exclusions in the policy is Low back pain and its cause, I dont think 
that Aviva acted unfairly in relying on that exclusion and refusing cover for treatment 
for ankylosing spondylitis.   
Avivas analysis of Mr Js previous medical history doesnt alter the outcome here: it 
remains the case that the condition for which Mr J was seeking cover was caught in 
the exclusion, regardless of when Mr J was first diagnosed with ankylosing 
spondylitis. 
Unfortunately, recordings of the two disputed phone calls arent available. Thats not 
uncommon. So, I must decide what happened on the available evidence. Ive noted 
what Mr J says but I dont think I can safely conclude that Aviva told him that his 
continued medical exclusions had expired. Thats an unusual thing for an insurer to 
say. Avivas call notes dont support Mr Js recollections. Based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think I can say that its more likely than not that Aviva misled Mr J about the  
exclusions. In any event, even if I reached a different conclusion about that, we 
wouldnt proceed on the basis that the incorrect information was true. So, it wouldnt 
help Mr J in getting his condition covered.   
Aviva sought further medical history, but it was slow in reporting the outcome of its 
further analysis to Mr J. Avivas medical underwriter reviewed the medical evidence 
on 2 April 2019, but Aviva didnt tell Mr J about its conclusions until 3 June 2019. I 
agree with the investigator that compensation of £100 in relation to this is fair. 
Aviva has offered to chase up information about Mr Js eye condition for future 
claims. If thats something Mr J wants Aviva to do, he should contact it direct. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part. 
Aviva should pay Mr J compensation of £100 in relation to its delay in informing Mr J of the 
outcome of its further consideration of his medical history. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part. I now require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr J compensation of £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman