DRN-3851462
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains he took a credit facility from Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, and that it lent to him when he was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she required. The credit was unsecured
and had no fixed duration. The credit facility was not a loan.
Briefly, Mr H applied for the credit facility of £200 in November 2018 and it was approved.
The credit limit was increased twice, the last time being in November 2019 when it was
increased to £820. In October 2020 the credit limit was reduced to zero and Mr H repaid the
amount owed to Drafty over the next few months. In July 2021 Mr H paid it all off. The
account remains open but idle with a zero credit limit  so essentially unusable.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to
illustrate the likely cost to Mr H. On the assumption that Mr H drew down the full £200 on the
first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal instalments
then the total amount payable would have been just under £267. These worked out to be
about £22 per month (Clause 5 in the agreement).
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced
ten days before Mr Hs salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Hs
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available.
Mr H complained to Drafty in March 2022 and received a final response letter (FRL) in which
it said that it did not consider it had done anything wrong offering the facility with a £200 limit.
Mr Hs representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In September 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys
decision to approve the credit facility was right and overall, she did not think that there was 
anything for Drafty to put right initially.
However, in relation to that part where Drafty ought to monitor the account during Mr Hs use
of it, our adjudicator considered that Drafty ought to have ceased allowing him to use the 
credit facility from 12 October 2020  a very similar date to that decided by Drafty to reduce 
the credit limit to zero.
Drafty agreed with our adjudicator in relation to the view and that the facility uphold date was
12 October 2020. But its suggested way to calculate how it puts things right for Mr H has
been rejected by his representative. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked both parties for some further 
information. Drafty responded. Mr Hs representative did not.
Drafty had not agreed with our adjudicators redress calculations and so the whole complaint
remained unresolved. As neither party was content, I considered it all afresh. I reviewed the 
credit facility initial approval in 2018 as well as the outstanding issue on the unresolved detail 
surrounding the redress.
I issued a provisional decision dated 28 April 2023 in which I gave reasons why I did not 
think that Drafty had done anything wrong. I gave time for both parties to respond.
I have duplicated here my provisional decision. It is in smaller type so that its different to the 
final decision I have issued today.  
My provisional decision dated 28 April 2023 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law, any relevant
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks,
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things,
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Initial approval of the credit facility.
From Mr Hs application to Drafty I note he declared his monthly income as £1,600 and his
monthly expenditure as £750. Draftys FRL said it had verified that income figure and it
further itemised Mr Hs declared monthly expenditure as £225 for rent, £25 for utilities, £75
for food, £275 for transport costs and £75 for other. Drafty had carried out some checks and
it had revised upwards the total stated expenses and this still resulted in a viable disposable
income.
The brief credit search results I have been provided with, carried out by Drafty shows that
Mr H had total debt of around £15,000 and a £1,200 default which had been registered
twenty-nine months before this application.
I need to explain to Mr H that upon first approaching Drafty in August 2020 it would not
usually be expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and
comprehensive financial review. Mr H was a new customer.
And bearing in mind the £200 credit limit applied for (and granted) and the monthly
payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable period, Drafty was entitled to rely
on the information given to it which suggested that Mr H had enough disposable income to
service a credit facility with a limit of £200.
Ive thought carefully about that default from twenty nine months before Mr H applied to
Drafty and I dont think it would have been something for Drafty to have been concerned
about due to the passage of time.
Having looked at all that Mr H has given me and Draftys information and submissions then
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would have
considered proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceableand able to be repaid within a reasonable time.
And so, I agree with our adjudicator in relation to the initial approval of that credit facility 
I do not uphold that part of Mr Hs complaint.
Monitoring of the account
After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account facility, Drafty did have to
monitor Mr Hs account and it has explained to us how it did that but very briefly. Also, it said
it had written to Mr H and asked him to confirm his income and expenses.
I refer to the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6
which addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an
account. One indication of a risk of a customer being in financial difficulties is where it seems
that the customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
The reason for my provisional decision is simply this  I think Mr H used the facility as
I would have expected a customer to use it and I consider that Drafty clearly did monitor the
account as it should have done.
Mr H repaid the account in full three times between taking it in November 2018 and
May 2020. Those occasions were February 2019, May 2019 and May 2020.
After May 2020 Mr H did not use the facility for six weeks and when he did, he drew down
£520 between 25 and 29 July 2020 and then didnt take any further drawdowns until
23 August 2020. So, he was not up to his limit and clearly used the account when he wanted
to use it.
Then on 28 August 2020 Mr H repaid around £32 and drew down modest sums on three
occasions and paid a portion again 30 September 2020.
I asked Drafty to tell me more about why it reduced Mr Hs credit limit to zero around
October 2020 when Mr H still owed it money as the outstanding balance was around £687.
Drafty replied recently:
Due to insufficient disposable income and failure to meet the minimum income
requirements, we suspended [Mr Hs] account in October 2020.
Following this we reduced [Mr Hs] credit limit to £0 because of his failure to update
his income and expenditure information in November 2020.
Mr H then repaid the account regularly over the next few months and repaid the balance of
£552.53 in July 2021. 
The zero limit effectively rendered the facility unusable and so Mr H seemed to have used
that time to repay it off with regular payments and then one larger repayment to clear the
balance.
So, I do not consider that Drafty did anything wrong. And I consider that Mr H used the account in a 
manner Id expect him to have used it. So, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I indicated that the parties had until 12 May 2023 to respond and Id review it on that date. I also said in that provisional decision that as Mr Hs complaint was one that had been 
proceeding for a long time then I asked that both parties were prompt in their responses, if 
any, as I was not likely to be easily persuaded to grant extensions of time.
Ive had no response from Mr H or his representative.
Drafty responded and added nothing further. 
As Ive received nothing further to persuade me to alter my view then I repeat my provisional 
decision findings here, which become part of this final decision and for those stated reasons 
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman