DRN-2765386
The complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement provided 
by Close Brothers Limited (CBMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the 
vehicle and receive compensation. 
 
What happened
Mr S tells us that in January 2019 he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as CW. 
Mr S says that in April 2019 he reported numerous faults including to the cruise control, 
electrics and suspension. He says that the vehicle was returned to him after repairs. But that 
it was still faulty. He says hes now sold the vehicle at a substantial loss. And he feels he 
should be compensated.
CBMF told us that Mr S had complained about numerous faults within a few weeks of 
supply. And following a report by an independent inspection business Ill refer to as A, it 
said that the vehicle had been repaired by CW and another business which Ill refer to as 
DG. When Mr S complained and suggested that the repairs had failed it said it had 
arranged for A to carry out further inspections. It said that two reports had been largely 
inconclusive due to the vehicle not being able to be examined under workshop conditions. 
But that A had then inspected the vehicle again and found it to have no faults. And had 
found that the repairs hadnt failed. CBMF said that Mr S had later started court proceedings 
against it but that these had been struck out by the court.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
vehicle had been supplied with faults. But he found that the required repairs had been 
carried out. And there wasnt enough information to show the repairs had failed.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S experienced several issues with this vehicle. Unfortunately, with used, 
high mileage vehicles such as this one, the chances of things going wrong are much greater.
Mr S conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBMF supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
At the time of supply to Mr S the vehicle was around 12 years old and the odometer reading 
was recorded on the agreement as149,000 miles. So its not surprising if it had signs of wear 
and tear.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory.
If goods arent of satisfactory quality when supplied and the short term right to reject (which 
usually has to be exercised within 30 days of supply) hasnt been used, the supplier is 
allowed a chance to repair the goods. Here, before he would be able to reject the vehicle  
or receive compensation in lieu - Mr S would have to show that the repairs had failed to 
restore the vehicle to being of satisfactory quality.
Ive seen information that Mr S made complaint about numerous issues with the vehicle in 
April 2019. This included ignition failure; weak battery; speed sensor issues; electric 
windows and cruise control not working; and a faulty suspension. 
Some issues were repaired but there was a dispute about whether there was a fault with the 
electronic steering lock. Following an independent inspection on 26 April 2019, by A, an 
intermittent fault was identified. Following further repairs, Mr S signed a note on 28 May 
2019 confirming all the repairs had been carried out and that hed checked the vehicle. And 
that he was satisfied with the repairs.
Having had the vehicle returned to him, Mr S shortly afterwards complained that some of the 
repairs had failed and that the vehicle wouldnt start. This led to further inspections by A. 
Two of these inspections on 26 June 2019 and 12 July 2019 were largely inconclusive.
A then carried out a further inspection on 14 August 2019. That report confirmed that the 
vehicle started without hesitation. And that the suspension, electric windows and cruise 
control all operated correctly. It reported the battery was operating properly as were all the 
electrical functions. Its overall conclusion was that the vehicle displayed no significant faults.
Ive also been referred to a court case which was later brought by Mr S in relation to the 
vehicle. I wouldnt be able to deal with any matters on which a court had already made a 
finding based on the same issues.
Ive seen that the claim against CBMF was struck out. But this seems to have been the 
result of Mr S not complying with directions to file sufficient particulars of claim. As opposed 
to the court dismissing the claim on its merits after hearing evidence. As the court hasnt 
made any findings on the relevant facts of this complaint, Im still able to consider it and 
reach my decision.
On the information available to me, Ive reached the conclusion that the vehicle wasnt 
initially of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr S. But that since then, all the necessary 
repairs to restore it to a condition so that it conformed to contract have been carried out.
The latest inspection by A confirms that the repairs didnt fail. And that the vehicle was 
without significant fault on the date of the inspection. Accordingly, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman