DRN-2901082
The complaint
Ms W complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (trading as Alphera Financial 
Services) (BMWFS) has unfairly charged her for excess mileage under a hire purchase 
agreement. Ms W is represented by Mr A.
What happened
In February 2018, Ms W acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from 
BMWFS. The total repayable under the agreement was £15,360.31. Ms W made an 
advanced payment of £2,500 and was then required to make 41 monthly payments of 
£185.91. There was a final optional payment of £5,238 if she wished to buy the car at the 
end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Ms W had the right to terminate the agreement at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the 
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this 
was £7,680.16.
In September 2020 Ms W asked to terminate the agreement. She returned the car, but she 
says that shortly afterwards, BMWFS told her shed need to pay an excess mileage charge 
of £1,830.04 because shed exceeded the mileage allowance by 36,896 miles.
The agreement set out that Ms W had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 35,000. It said that if she exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge her 4.96 pence for every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event she terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire.
Ms W doesnt think an excess mileage charge is due. She says the hire purchase agreement 
limits her liability to one half of the total price payable - £7,680.16  and as there were no 
arrears, this voluntary termination sum is the final payment and there are no further 
payments due to BMWFS. She told BMWFS that it was simply wrong to believe you are 
able to recover excess mileage charges in addition to one half of the total price payable.
BMWFS rejected this complaint. It said the charges for excess mileage were set out in the 
finance agreement Ms W signed in February 2018. And it said that termination of an 
agreement by a customer by way of Voluntary Termination does not affect any liability under 
the agreement which has accrued before the termination. And it said the Agreement clearly 
states that Excess Mileage Charges are sums that become payable under the Agreement 
prior to termination.
BMWFS says mileage limitation is a fair measure of what would constitute reasonable care 
of the vehicle given that it can affect its value upon resale. It said, exceeding the Maximum 
Total Mileage agreed upon commencement of the Agreement, is likely to have caused the 
Vehicle to have decreased in value more than it otherwise might have done had the agreed 
mileage been adhered to and you should therefore have to compensate us accordingly. It 
said it was confident that it hadnt acted incorrectly and that its charge was an accurate 
reflection of the additional mileage incurred.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found that the 
terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an excess mileage charge being 
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under 
the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are payable 
as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Ms Ws agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Ms Ws accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £1,830.04.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, he was satisfied it was 
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be 
applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for 
BMWFS to charge the additional amount. 
Ms W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In paying a deposit and her monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Ms W use of the car for the duration of the agreement. She also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£5,238. While Ms W was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, 
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set out what would 
happen should Ms W not meet those requirements.
Ms W exercised her right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, 
voluntary termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay 
anything more. But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to 
the agreement, whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether 
any excess mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case Ms W disputes the excess mileage charge of £1,830.04 that she has been 
asked to pay. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination: Your rights section 
of Ms Ws hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination. 
Various sections of the agreement Ms W had with BMWFS also referred to the liability on 
early termination, including where excess mileage, damage charges or other charges may 
increase the final liability.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Ms Ws specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Ms W is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Ms Ws hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage 
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that 
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance 
will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to pay any Excess 
Mileage Charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Ms Ws 
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
However, Ms W has referred to the section of the agreement headed Termination: Your 
Rights. This section contains specific wording which BMWFS was required to include in the 
agreement, and in summary sets out that so long as Ms W has paid at least half the total 
amount payable under the agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ms W argues that 
the wording of this clause is clear and means BMWFS cant charge for excess mileage and it 
is therefore unfair for BMWFS to rely upon it.
Ive thought about whether this conflicts with the rest of the terms of the agreement, 
specifically those that explain charges for exceeding the mileage might apply. In other 
words, what I have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow 
the charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding 
voluntary termination and are those terms clear? In Ms Ws specific case, I think it has. Ill 
explain why.
Ms W suggests the other terms of the agreement should be effectively treated as void as the 
Termination: Your rights section overrides them. I disagree. While certain agreements can 
include terms, which set out consumers statutory rights  such as those in S99  and it might be considered unfair for a business to contract out those rights, I dont think that is 
whats happened here.
The Termination: Your rights section contains wording that BMWFS was required to 
include. BMWFS was not entitled to amend that wording. However, that doesnt mean it 
couldnt include additional wording or terms within the agreement that supplemented this 
section. And importantly, it could include wording entitling it to charge additional charges 
which might be allowed under S99 of the CCA.
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, rather than focussing narrowly on 
one term in isolation, I dont think the agreement is either unclear or misleading concerning 
the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains that the excess mileage charge can be 
applied in addition to other charges for voluntary termination. I dont therefore consider that 
the way this specific agreement has been constructed has prejudiced Ms W.
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman