DRN-3095052
The complaint
Miss I complains that Openwork Limiteds advisor provided incorrect information to the 
insurer when arranging a landlords insurance policy for her. 
What happened
In October 2019 Miss I asked an Openwork advisor who Ill refer to as Mr C -  to arrange a 
landlords insurance policy, after she secured tenants for a property she owned.
In August 2020 she made a claim on the insurance after a flood caused damage to the 
property. The insurer subsequently wrote to Miss I to say that it wouldnt be covering the 
claim and it had voided her policy. It said she had failed to disclose a previous flood incident 
at the property in 2016 when she took out the policy, and if she had it wouldnt have offered 
the policy at all.
Miss I didnt think this was fair. She said Mr C hadnt asked her whether there were previous 
flood instances at the property and had answered the question incorrectly on her behalf. So 
she didnt think it was fair that she was being held responsible for his incorrect answer. She 
made a complaint to Openwork.
Openwork didnt uphold her complaint. It said Mr C phoned Miss I before arranging the 
policy and went through all the questions with her then. And it said he then sent her the 
policy documents to review to ensure the information provided was correct. So it said Miss I 
also had the opportunity to check and correct this, therefore was responsible for providing 
the incorrect information and not Openwork. 
Miss I didnt agree. She said Mr C hadnt called her or asked her any of the questions shown 
in the statement of facts for her policy. And he had made assumptions about the answers 
based on his experience arranging a mortgage for the property. Further she said when the 
documents were emailed to her, she wasnt told to check any particular part. And as she had 
gone to Mr C for his help and experience, she didnt think it was fair that the onus would be 
on her to make sure the information was right. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and once provided with all the information, she 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say that a phone call had taken place between Mr C and Miss I. However said 
shed seen that Mr C sent the documents, including the answers to the relevant questions, to 
Miss I and it was her responsibility to ensure the information was correct. So she thought 
Openwork had done enough and didnt think it should do anything to put things right.
Miss I didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Is policy was voided by the insurer because it said shed provided incorrect information 
about flooding events at the property in the previous ten years. I need to decide if Openwork 
did enough to ensure the information provided to the insurer was correct when the policy 
was taken out.
Mr C is a financial advisor, working on behalf of Openwork. He sold Miss I a landlords 
insurance policy as part of an advised sale. When insurance is sold by an advised sale wed 
expect the advisor to ensure it had understood its customers demands and needs in order 
to recommend the right product for them. 
Mr C says that he called Miss I to go through the questions required when taking out the 
policy. And that she had said there hadnt been any flood instances in the previous ten years 
at the property. 
Openwork hasnt been able to provide this call, or any record of it. And Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that the questions asked by the insurer were put directly to Miss I. So Ive 
not seen enough to persuade me that Mr C did go through the questions in detail with Miss I.
However I also need to take into account the relevant law  the Insurance Act 2015. This 
states that when a customer is buying a commercial policy (such as landlords insurance) 
they have the duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. This means 
disclosing:
Everything they know, or ought to know that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or 
Enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
When considering the flood incident in 2016, I think Miss I ought to have known this was 
something that might influence the judgement of the insurer and therefore something that 
should have been disclosed. As it relates directly to the insurance cover she was buying. 
Further, Ive seen that Openwork sent Miss I all the documents relating to the insurance on 
the same day it was requested. This included the statement of facts that displayed the 
following question and answer:
Has the property or the land belonging to it flooded in the last 10 years? No
The letter provided with the documents stated as follows:
Please take a few moments to read through everything in this pack to check all the 
information is correct and make sure youre comfortable the policy meets your needs. If any 
details are incorrect or your circumstances change in the future, be sure to contact us 
immediately so we can make the necessary changes.
When I consider this alongside the duty laid out in the Insurance Act, I think Miss I should 
have done more to ensure the information provided to the insurer was correct. She was 
aware of a flood incident at the property and ought reasonably to have known this could 
affect the insurers judgement when insuring the property. While it isnt possible to know if 
this information was provided incorrectly by Miss I to begin with, she had the opportunity to 
correct the information when the policy documents were sent to her. So I dont think 
Openwork can be held fairly responsible for this incorrect information that resulted in Miss Is insurance being voided. I therefore wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman