DRN-3612460
The complaint
Miss S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) declined her claims that a 
product it financed was misrepresented to her and the credit intermediary who introduced 
her to Shawbrook wasnt authorised to do so.   
Miss S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around May 2014, after attending a presentation, Miss S and her partner agreed to 
purchase a timeshare membership product. The total cost of the product was £12,141 which 
was funded, in part, by trade in of an existing trial membership product with the same 
supplier. A balance of £6,000 was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement in Miss Ss sole 
name through Shawbrook Bank Limited over a term of 60 months.
In November 2020, the CMC wrote to Shawbrook on behalf of Miss S and her partner. They 
said that the product supplier had made the following misrepresentations:
the annual maintenance fee wouldnt escalate;
they would be able to have regular holidays at top class resorts for a fraction of the 
cost of normal holiday costs;
they would have access to a flight network scheme with potential savings; and
booking would be simple with accommodation readily available.
In addition, the CMC said:
Shawbrook hadnt exercised a duty of care in accordance with the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook; and
the supplier who introduced Miss S to Shawbrook wasnt authorised to do so in 
contravention of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
thered been no disclosure of any commission paid by Shawbrook to the supplier for 
arranging the loan.
In Shawbrooks response to the CMCs letter of claim/complaint, they said Miss Ss partner 
wasnt party to the loan  only Miss S. So, she was the subject of the complaint. They also 
explained why they didnt agree with the various points raised by the CMC and didnt uphold 
Miss Ss claim/complaint.
Miss S didnt agree with Shawbrooks findings and asked the CMC to refer her complaint to 
this service. In doing so, the CMC also commented on Shawbrooks final response. In 
addition to the original claim/complaint points, they made the following comments (not 
exhaustive):
even if the supplier did hold the relevant authorisation to introduce Miss S to 
Shawbrook, that authorisation had been breached due to the misrepresentations 
theyd made, and financial incentives offered to induce her and her partner to enter 
into the loan agreement;
the suppliers breach of any authorisation suggests that an unfair relationship existed 
under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA);
Miss S and her partner werent given time to sign the loan documentation and 
appropriate checks werent undertaken in accordance with the CONC rules and 
guidelines and the FCAs Principles;
the supplier (and Shawbrook) hadnt considered Miss Ss partners medical 
circumstances when presenting the product and proposing and arranging the loan, 
which also suggests that an unfair relationship existed; and
the interest rate that applied to the loan was much higher than those applicable 
generally.
Having considered all the information available together with what the CMC and Shawbrook 
said, our investigator didnt think Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. Our investigator 
thought:
Miss Ss partner wasnt party to the loan, so wasnt an eligible complainant under the 
FCAs Dispute resolution rules (DISP);
any claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract had been brought too late;
a court was unlikely to conclude that an unfair relationship existed under S140A of 
the CCA; and
there was no evidence to suggest that the loan Shawbrook agreed to provide to Miss 
S was unaffordable.
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for Miss Ss complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. They said:
they didnt agree Miss Ss claims for misrepresentation and breach of contract were 
out of time;
the investigator was wrong to exclude the evidence relating to Miss Ss partner; and
the investigator was wrong to focus upon the conclusion a court would reach as even 
if a complaint couldnt be pursued in court, this service is still able to make an award 
based upon what is fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
The role of this service, when considering this complaint, is to examine and decide whether 
Shawbrooks response appears to have been fair and reasonable given all the 
circumstances. When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Dispute 
rules in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook (DISP) means Im required to 
take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service. 
DISP 2.7 says that a complaint may only be dealt with by this service if it is brought by or on 
behalf of an eligible complainant. It defines an eligible complainant as a consumer who 
must also have a complaint which arises from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent (here thats Shawbrook). The FCA lists 17 
possible relationships. Miss S was the sole party to the loan with Shawbrook which means 
only she is an eligible complainant. None of the listed relationships apply to Miss Ss partner 
here. So, I can only consider the circumstances relating to Miss Ss claim together with any 
impact it may have had upon her.
In this case relevant law includes Section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 provides protection for 
consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As Miss S and her partner paid for the 
timeshare product with a fixed sum loan agreement in Miss Ss sole name, I agree section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means Miss S could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way 
they couldve claimed against that supplier. But Miss Ss partner wasnt party to the loan, so 
isnt afforded those rights. 
As a related credit agreement exists, Section 140A of the Act is also relevant as it allows a 
court to determine whether an unfair relationship exists as a result of that and any related 
agreement(s). A court can award a debtor (Miss S) a remedy if its found the relationship 
between a creditor (Shawbrook) and Miss S is unfair, on the basis of:
(a) any terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of their rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement; or
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or 
after making of the agreement or any related agreement.
Section 140A is concerned with the (alleged) unfairness of the relationship, not the 
agreement. And because the debtor/creditor relationship continues up to the point the 
agreement ends (here, thats the loan), any limitation to make a claim doesnt correspond 
with the date of that agreement, rather when that agreement ends. Its important to 
recognise that only a court is able to make that determination. But as its relevant law, Ive 
considered this when deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Finally, given the facts of this complaint, another relevant piece of law is the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA), because the original transaction took place in May/June 2014 and Miss Ss 
claims were made to Shawbrook in November 2020. Again, only a court is able to make a 
ruling under the LA, but as its relevant law, I shall consider the effect this might have also. 
Authorisation to arrange the loan
The CMC allege that the credit agreement Miss S entered into was arranged by an 
unauthorised credit broker. 
The supplier of the timeshare product is clearly detailed in the purchase agreement and 
accompanying documentation. And although the name specified within the credit agreement 
differs slightly, I understand this was done for reference purposes only as it identifies the 
specific location of the sales office involved. 
Records show that at the time of the sale, when Miss Ss loan was arranged, the timeshare 
supplier was subject to this services compulsory jurisdiction and held the necessary 
authorisation to arrange the loan under the FSMA. So, Im not persuaded that Miss Ss 
introduction to Shawbrook was undertaken by an unauthorised credit broker.
The claim(s) under Section 75
The CMC allege the supplier misrepresented the nature of the agreement to Miss S and her 
partner. 
A Section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the Limitation Act 1980. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Miss S had to make that claim within six years of when she entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which 
was in May/June 2014  because that is when she says she lost out having relied upon the 
alleged false statements of fact.
The CMC submitted Miss Ss claim/complaint to Shawbrook in November 2020. But this was 
more than six years after they say Miss S first lost out. So, I think its likely that a court would 
conclude that any claim for misrepresentation and/or breach of contract was made outside 
the time limit in the LA. And because of that, I dont think Shawbrooks decision to decline 
Miss Ss claim was ultimately unreasonable.
The CMC suggest this service isnt bound by the provisions of the LA, rather what is fair and 
reasonable whether or not a court would make an award. However, as Ive already 
explained, as the LA is relevant law, under DISP 3.6.4R I have to take that into account 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable.
The CMC have also referenced DISP 2.8.2 which specifies the timescales within which a 
complaint can be referred to and considered by this service. And because the complaint was 
raised with Shawbrook in November 2020, they suggest it was brought to this service in 
time. On this point I agree; the complaint being - Miss S is unhappy with Shawbrooks 
response to her claim. Therefore, my role is to decide whether Shawbrooks response was 
fair and reasonable. As regards any claim under section 75, while Shawbrook have 
explained why they dont think there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract, 
ultimately I dont think it was unreasonable to decline the claim as I think its likely it was 
brought too late.
Could the limitation period be postponed?
In the original claim to Shawbrook, the CMC suggested that Section 32 of the LA applies in 
that it permits the usual limitation(s) to be postponed. Section 32(1)(b) of the LA says that, if 
any fact relevant to the debtors right of action has been deliberately concealed, the period of 
limitation doesnt begin until the debtor (Miss S) has discovered the concealment, or it could 
with reasonable diligence have been discovered by her  and section 32(2) says that 
deliberate commission of a breach of duty which is unlikely to be discovered for some time 
amounts to deliberate concealment of the facts in the breach.
I dont think the limitation period in relation to Miss Ss section 75 claim could be postponed 
since the claim against Shawbrook isnt based upon allegations of fraud or concealment by 
Shawbrook. And under her section 75 claim, I cant see why Shawbrook would be affected 
by any fraud or concealment of the timeshare supplier. 
In any event, I dont consider theres enough evidence here to show that theres been 
deliberate concealment of any relevant information. The CMCs arguments are based upon 
what they believe were false representations made to Miss S as to the benefits of 
purchasing the loan which were only identified when the CMC were instructed. But I dont 
think any of the evidence provided supports the claim that the purchase agreement and loan 
were fraudulently misrepresented to Miss S. The claim under Section 140A
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed under Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is 
also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, as previously 
explained, the trigger point here is slightly different as any relationship between Miss S and 
Shawbrook continues while the finance agreement remains live. So, the relationship only 
ends once the agreement ends and the borrowing under it has been repaid.
The CMC have confirmed Miss S made the final repayment under the credit agreement in 
June 2019. Therefore, I dont think the LA would apply here as the claim/complaint under 
Section 140A was raised within six-years of when the relationship ended.
However, on the basis of what Ive seen, there dont appear to be any grounds on which I 
think I could properly conclude that there is an unfair relationship in this case. The main 
reasons given by the CMC for saying theres an unfair relationship are due to 
the authority of the credit intermediary - Ive already addressed this above;
the unfairness of the interest rate charged;
a lack of disclosure of commissions paid to the supplier by Shawbrook; and
Miss S not being given time to read the terms and conditions.
In addition, the CMC allege Shawbrook failed to complete an appropriate assessment of 
Miss Ss credit worthiness and had a duty of care to consider her partners medical situation 
and vulnerabilities.
Interest rate applied to the loan
Ive carefully considered the interest rate that applied in this case and whether it feels fair in 
all the circumstances. Miss S accepted and signed the loan agreement in early June 2014 
which clearly set out the annual rate of interest (and the APR). I think the rate that applied to 
Miss Ss loan appears to be comparable with similar products and loans Ive seen before, 
and I dont believe was unreasonable. So, Im not persuaded that the interest rate payable 
for the loan risked making the debtor-creditor relationship unfair under Section 140A.
Was the loan application adequately assessed for credit worthiness?
The rules and guidance relevant at the time were set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). These required Shawbrook to carry out 
an assessment using reasonable and proportionate checks to determine whether Miss S 
could afford to repay her loan in a sustainable way. And as it was only Miss S who was the 
applicant and party to the loan here, Shawbrook wouldnt usually be required to consider her 
partners circumstances. Any assessment would be made based upon Miss Ss financial 
circumstances and history. 
Any checks needed to be borrower focussed and consider whether making the repayments 
could result in financial difficulties for Miss S. In cases where there isnt evidence that 
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if proportionate checks would likely 
have shown the credit was sustainably affordable, or not.
Shawbrook confirm they carried out checks in line with their regulatory obligations. They said 
they used lending industry standard products which are designed to assess both the 
likelihood of default and of the borrower becoming over indebted. They said these checks 
are based upon credit searches and information provided by the borrower. They dont agree 
that the checks they completed were inadequate. Shawbrook havent provided specific 
details or evidence of the checks they completed. So, Ive thought about whether those 
checks mightve revealed that the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Miss S.The CMC havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable or 
unsuitable for Miss S, and Ive not found anything else to suggest that was the case. Also, 
the loan has since been repaid within the terms agreed. So, whether or not the checks 
completed by Shawbrook were adequate, I cant reasonably say that Miss S suffered any 
loss as a result.
Disclosure of commissions
Note 18 of the Customer Compliance Statement Miss S signed at the time of the sale clearly 
states that the supplier is entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered. 
Shawbrook have confirmed that had Miss S requested specific details of commission paid, 
they wouldve been under an obligation to provide that. But theres no evidence that such a 
request was made. 
I havent found anything to suggest Shawbrook was under any regulatory duty to disclose 
the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. And from what Ive seen across the 
timeshare industry, where commission was paid it tended to be low. So, for that reason, and 
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely that the levels of commission 
normally paid in situations like this one wouldve been high enough to put Shawbrook on 
notice that not disclosing commission to Miss S risked making the debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair under Section 140A. 
Time to consider the agreement(s)
The documents from the time of the sale appear to have been completed and signed over a 
period of four days. Further, while the loan was in Miss Ss sole name, the product sale 
documents were signed and dated by both Miss S and her partner. They included their rights 
to withdraw from the contract within 14 days without giving any reason. The Customer 
Compliance Statement/Declaration to Treating Customers Fairly, which they also signed, 
specifically confirms that the sales process gave them time to consider the product and that 
theyd read the agreement, the key information and the finance agreement. So, in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, I cant fairly conclude that the sales process would 
give any cause for making the relationship unfair under Section 140A.
Summary
Ultimately, its for a court to decide whether or not the relevant misrepresentation claims 
against the supplier or Shawbrook have expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from 
the information available, any claim that might exist is likely to have been made outside of 
those limits set. The same is also true for any claim under Section 140A of the CCA. 
However, based upon the information, I think its unlikely a court would find anything to 
suggest an unfair relations existed. So, Im not persuaded that Shawbrook need to do 
anything to put things right in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman