DRN-3867322
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as BetterBorrow) is holding him liable 
for a loan applied for in his name as part of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here. 
In May 2022 Mr W was unfortunately caught up in a crypto investment scam. As part of the 
scam, Mr W provided the scammer with personal information to facilitate the opening of a 
crypto exchange account (which Ill refer to here as N). Mr W says the scammer then used 
this information to apply for three loans in his name, one of which was with BetterBorrow.
On 20 May 2022 the first of the three loans was paid into Mr Ws bank account from a lender 
(which Ill refer to as Z). The loan was for £25,000. Mr W then transferred all the funds from 
this loan to his account with N on 23 May 2022. 
On 23 May 2022 a loan was applied for in Mr Ws name from BetterBorrow for £12,000. The 
funds were deposited in Mr Ws bank account on the same day before he transferred the 
money, in seven instalments between 24 and 25 May 2022, to his account with N. 
On 27 May 2022 the third loan (from a lender Ill refer to as S) was paid into Mr Ws bank 
account. The loan was for £15,000. That money was then all transferred to N on 30 May 
2022. 
The funds from all three loans are no longer in Mr Ws account with N and has unfortunately 
been lost as part of the scam.
Realising hed been the victim of a scam, Mr W contacted BetterBorrow on 30 May 2022. He 
explained the loan had been taken out in his name without his knowledge, and he asked 
BetterBorrow to cancel it. 
BetterBorrow conducted a fraud investigation. Whilst it accepted Mr W had no knowledge of 
the credit agreement and so wasnt liable for the interest, fees and charges, it said he 
needed to repay the principal sum of £12,000. 
Mr W complained to BetterBorrow. He said the loan was applied for without his knowledge 
and BetterBorrow didnt do enough to stop that happening. He said he had no 
communication from BetterBorrow about the loan  nor did it carry out sufficient checks on 
affordability. Mr W wanted the loan written off. 
BetterBorrow didnt agree. It said it had processed the loan application correctly and done all 
necessary checks to confirm Mr Ws identity and that he could afford the loan. BetterBorrow 
said as Mr W had willingly provided his personal details to a third party to facilitate the loan 
application, and had ignored signs this was a loan, he was liable to repay the £12,000. 
Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said hed had no contact from 
BetterBorrow during the application process about the loan or whether he could afford it, nor 
had he agreed to the terms of the loan. Mr W said he hadnt benefited from the money and 
was now suffering extreme distress and worry at the thought of having to repay it. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. She accepted Mr W hadnt 
applied for the loan and so hadnt entered into the loan agreement, meaning he wasnt liable 
for interest, fees, and charges. But she thought Mr W shouldve contacted BetterBorrow 
before transferring the £12,000 out of his bank account  given the payment was referenced 
Received from BetterBorrow Loan on his bank statement. So, our Investigator thought 
Mr W shouldve done more to mitigate his loss.  
In terms of the affordability of the loan  our Investigator said Mr W would still be liable for 
the principal sum even if we thought the lending was unaffordable. And so, the outcome of 
his complaint would be the same. 
Mr W disagreed with our Investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision. He said he shouldnt be liable for money he didnt borrow. 
Mr W also said the scammer had told him they had changed the reference for the £12,000 
payment on his bank statement and said this was their money that had bounced back to 
Mr Ws account and needed to be returned to them. 
And because hed not heard of BetterBorrow  Mr W said he didnt realise this was a loan, 
instead believing what hed been told by the scammer. Mr W said if he had realised this was 
a loan, he wouldnt have transferred the funds. 
Mr W also maintained BetterBorrow hadnt done thorough enough checks to ensure he could 
afford the loan. And if the correct email address had been used on the application, he 
wouldve received information to show this was a loan and not transferred the money to the 
scammer. 
Mr W said he was the innocent victim of a scam and shouldnt be punished for trusting what 
he was told by the scammer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr W and Id like to assure him I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence  including contact notes and 
phone recordings from Mr Ws bank which have been provided in relation to his complaint 
about Z. Id like to assure Mr W that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I 
havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it 
is here), I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. Mr W has complained to us about the actions of all three lenders (Z, S and BetterBorrow). 
Whilst the information relating to Z and S form part of the wider surrounding circumstances 
to Mr Ws complaint, to clarify, Im only making findings on the actions of BetterBorrow in this 
final decision. 
I dont doubt that Mr W has been the victim of a cruel and sophisticated crypto investment 
scam. And Im pleased to see BetterBorrow accepts he didnt enter into the loan agreement 
and so isnt holding Mr W liable for the interest, fees and charges applicable to the loan, nor 
is it reporting the loan against Mr Ws credit file. I think that is fair. 
Where a lender is found to have irresponsibly lent, this doesnt mean that the borrower 
automatically has the loan written off. Wed usually say that the lender shouldnt profit from 
their mistake by adding interest, fees or charges. But wed normally still say that its fair for 
the lender to pursue the principal loan amount. In this case, BetterBorrow has said it will only 
pursue the principal amount. So, Im not going to consider the affordability of the loan in 
detail, as Mr W is already in the position he would be in, were I to find in his favour for that 
aspect of his complaint. 
It isnt in dispute that BetterBorrow paid £12,000 into Mr Ws account. And as it isnt seeking 
to add interest, charges or fees to that amount, nor to report it against Mr Ws credit file, all 
that remains to be decided is whether it is fair for BetterBorrow to pursue that amount, 
should it choose to do so. 
Mr Ws main point is that he says he didnt know the £12,000 was a loan, and if hed known, 
he wouldnt have transferred it to the scammer. 
However, Ive considered the wider circumstances including events both before and after the 
BetterBorrow loan arrived in (and was paid away from) Mr Ws account. And based on this, I 
think Mr W ought to have known, and most likely did know, that the funds from BetterBorrow 
were a loan, prior to paying them away. 
I say this because Mr W had by this time had several conversations with his bank about the 
risks of crypto investment scams. Whilst there isnt specific reference to the BetterBorrow 
loan  the notes from 24 May 2022 include the following:
Notified customer that investing in crypto with funds from the loan breaches terms 
and conditions. Made customer aware that the crypto market is volatile and can 
impact the ability to repay loans. 
In addition to this, Mr W did notice the incoming funds from BetterBorrow on his bank 
statement. The messages between him and the scammer indicate that he was told this was 
a payment from them which had bounced back and that they had made it appear as 
Received from BetterBorrow Loan so the bank wouldnt question anything. But I think the 
scammer telling Mr W this shouldve rung alarm bells with him. Yet Mr W doesnt seem to 
have conducted further checks with BetterBorrow or his bank before transferring the money. 
Further to this, Mr Ws main point is that if hed known the BetterBorrow funds were a loan  
he wouldnt have transferred them. But when S called Mr W prior to putting the loan into his 
account, he told it he had applied for the loan and that it was for home improvements. He 
then subsequently transferred the funds to N. I appreciate that Mr W says he was 
pressured by the scammer into agreeing to the loan with S. But I cant ignore that the action 
he took in relation to this loan undermines Mr Ws position that he wouldnt have transferred 
the BetterBorrow funds if hed known they were from a loan.  
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to prevent BetterBorrow from pursuing Mr W for the principal loan 
amount. So, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman