DRN-4236615
The complaint
Mr O has complained that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) carried out and 
recorded credit checks without his consent.
What happened
Mr O found some applications for credit with PayPal had appeared on his credit file. Mr O 
says that due to him being a victim of fraud previously, hed set up a password on his credit 
file, so that any applications for credit would need to be manually reviewed and a password 
to be provided for the application to proceed. Mr O also says that he had additional security 
measures from a fraud prevention agency on his credit file too. So he was surprised and 
upset to find that the applications had been made without his consent and recorded by 
PayPal.
PayPal issued its final response to the complaint and didnt uphold it. PayPal said that during 
the application process for its Pay in 3 service, the applicant is required to give their 
consent for a credit check to be completed first, before the application can be progressed. 
PayPal says this would involve selecting "Continue" once and then "Agree and Continue" 
twice more during the application process. PayPal said that there was no evidence of 
unauthorised access to Mr Os account, so it said it would not agree to remove the two credit 
file entries.
Mr O referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service as he was unhappy with 
PayPals response to his complaint. Mr O said that he had not made the applications for 
credit and he said that PayPal had given the wrong date for one of the credit searches. 
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that PayPal had acted 
unreasonably or unfairly. So they were unable to conclude that PayPal should remove the 
entries from Mr Os credit file.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators assessment. He said that PayPal did not complete the 
necessary checks before applying the entry on his credit file. 
Mr O also added new points to his complaint. These include that PayPal had not responded 
to a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) within the specified time limit, and that a third 
entry appeared on his credit file in June 2023.
As Mr O disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to uphold the complaint, broadly for the same 
reasons that the investigator gave. I will explain why.
Credit applications
Ive firstly considered whether there is enough evidence to be able to conclude that the 
applications in question were likely to have been fraudulent applications.
Mr O has simply said that he never made the applications for credit. Mr O believes that his 
PayPal account was hacked  although no evidence has been provided from either party to 
show that was the case. Conversely, PayPal says that for the application that took place in 
December 2022, the visitor ID that was used to access the account had been used 64 times 
between 24 October 2022 and 10 February 2023. PayPal also says the internet service 
provider used for the credit application was a service provider consistent with Mr Os usage 
of the account. PayPal has provided evidence to show that two factor security authentication 
was used to verify it was Mr O logging in to the account. 
In terms of the 15 January 2023 application, PayPal says that the visitor ID used to access 
the account correlated with the ID used on 5 occasions between 12 January 2023 and 30 
January 2023. Again, PayPal has provided evidence to show that two factor security 
authentication was used to verify that it was Mr O logging in to the account. 
Having considered everything that has been provided, Im unable to conclude, albeit on the 
balance of probabilities, that the applications were fraudulent. 
I say this because, although Mr O has said that hed previously been the victim of fraud  
which led to him applying a credit lock on his credit file  the evidence does indicate that Mr 
O had logged in when the credit applications were made. Indeed, the purpose of two factor 
authentication is to add a further layer of protection and prevent third parties from accessing 
an account, even if they know a consumers username and password. And from what I can 
see, the account was accessed using credentials that are linked to Mr O (such as the visitor 
ID and the service provider) and access was granted on both occasions, only after two factor 
authentication had taken place. I havent seen anything which could explain how a third party 
could have gotten access to these details without Mr Os knowledge or consent in the 
circumstances here, even taking into account what Mr O has told us about previously being 
the victim of fraud.
Furthermore, when each application was carried out, PayPal sent Mr O a message to 
explain that his application for credit had been unsuccessful. Mr O has not said that he didnt 
receive these messages, so it seems that they were likely received by him. The message 
explained that if Mr O hadnt applied for credit, he could call a particular number. 
As such, if Mr O had not made either of the applications, I wouldve expected him to contact 
PayPal  especially if hed recently been a victim of fraud  much sooner than he did. 
However, I cant see that Mr O did this around the time of either application  it seems the 
first time Mr O complained to PayPal about the credit applications was in late March/early 
April 2023. I cant see that Mr O has given any explanation as to why he didnt react to the 
messages that had been sent to him.
So based on the evidence that has been provided in this case, on balance, Im unable to say 
that the two credit applications were fraudulent. So the starting point to this complaint is that 
I think PayPal acted fairly and reasonably by completing credit searches on Mr O when the 
two applications were processed. 
Credit Lock
Mr O says that the declined credit applications should not have appeared on his credit file, 
as he says hed placed a lock on his credit file due to him previously being a victim of fraud. 
Mr O says that PayPal shouldve done further checks and wouldve needed to have obtained 
a password before it could proceed with any credit check against him.
In the circumstances, I dont think I can reasonably say that PayPal has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
In terms of whether PayPal shouldve done further checks, it has shown how its process was 
followed here. It considered the information it was provided and declined the applications, as 
its entitled to. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that these checks were 
disproportionate or should have gone further in the circumstances. Ultimately the applications for credit had been unsuccessful  which would indicate that PayPals checks 
were thorough enough for it to decide it was not appropriate to provide Mr O with the 
requested credit. I say this bearing in mind what Ive already said above about the evidence 
that PayPal had to indicate the applications were genuine.
Turning to the credit applications appearing on Mr Os credit file, I recognise that Mr O didnt 
think new entries could appear without his consent. But ultimately it seems that Mr Os 
concerns are about the credit lock not working as he expected it to. PayPal was following its 
standard procedure and was not prevented from applying the entry to his credit file in 
processing the two credit applications. Given that Im satisfied that the applications were 
more likely than not genuine  ultimately PayPal has recorded accurate information about 
the applications, which its entitled to do.
From what I understand, there are exemptions to a credit lock where a credit file can still be 
accessed by lenders  one of which includes existing creditors. Although I dont know for 
sure, this could perhaps explain why PayPal was still able to add the declined credit 
applications to Mr Os credit file, despite the lock hed put in place. But either way, as Ive not 
seen enough evidence to say that the credit applications were fraudulent, I cant reasonably 
say that PayPal has acted unfairly because the credit reference agency allowed it to add the 
declined credit applications to Mr Os credit file. Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
PayPal deliberately ignored the credit lock or acted in any way to get around it.
Other issues
Since raising his complaint with our service I note that Mr O added further points that did not 
form part of the original complaint. Although these are technically speaking, separate 
complaints, I can see that PayPal has provided information about those points on this 
complaint, so I have addressed them here to avoid Mr O having to raise further complaints. 
Mr O says that it took around 10 days past the deadline for him to receive the response to 
the DSAR. From the evidence that Mr O has provided its not clear when exactly Mr O 
requested the DSAR. For example, I cant see he made a request in the emails he 
exchanged with PayPal through the third-party complaint handling service that he used (and 
has provided copies of to this service). PayPal says that it only received the DSAR on 18 
April 2023  which would suggest that it did respond within the prescribed time limit.
Nevertheless, even if PayPal did respond 10 days outside of the time frame, although the 
delay mayve been frustrating for Mr O, I dont think such a delay would warrant any 
compensation. It seems to have been only a minor delay, and it didnt prevent him raising his 
complaint with this service. It seems any inconvenience caused to Mr O because of any 
delay in receiving the DSAR documentation has been minimal. I should also add that as our 
service is not a regulator, I cant punish or fine PayPal, even if it had breached the time limits 
in place to respond to a DSAR.
Mr O has also mentioned that a third PayPal entry has since appeared on his credit file. 
However, Mr O previously told our service that he did this, just to see if the information would 
still be reported to his credit file despite the lock being in place  which it evidently does. If 
he has concerns with how the credit lock facility is working, then he may wish to take this up 
with the agency that provides this service. 
So for the above reasons, Im unable to say that PayPal should remove the entries for the 
declined credit applications from Mr Os credit file. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman