DRN-4342192
The complaint
Mrs W has complained Wise Payments Limited wont refund three payments of £600 sent 
using their app.
What happened
Mrs W has a bank account overseas (who Ill call S) which she tops up on a monthly basis. 
To do this she uses the Wise app to send £600 and has been doing so for some time.
She noticed that the payments she made on 8 February, 1 and 31 March didnt arrive in her 
account with S as they seemed to have gone to another account shed never heard of. She 
complained to Wise.
Wise mistakenly got back £600 which Mrs W had sent to her account with S in December 
2022. This money was credited back to Mrs Ws UK account. Although they tried to recall the 
other three payments, these requests were refused. Wise told Mrs W they could no nothing 
further to help her.
Mrs W brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator noted that Mrs W 
appeared to have sent the three payments of £600 to an account shed used once before in 
April 2021. She most likely had done this in error but there was nothing further wed ask 
Wise to do once the recall requests had been unsuccessful.
Mrs W felt this was unfair and has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mrs Ws complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing else specific in 
Mrs Ws case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions as well 
as what Wise and Mrs W have confirmed to us. Specifically I can see:
Mrs W had sent a payment of approximately £200 to an overseas account on 16 April 
2021. Shed newly set up this payee, that appears to be an office of local 
government. Mrs W has separately confirmed this was for payment of local taxes 
after buying a property.
Mrs W was used to using the repeat transfer option when sending £600 on a monthly 
basis to her bank account with S.
Mrs W meant to send £600 on 8 February, 1 and 31 March to her account with S. 
The details she used, however, were for the other account shed set up in April 2021. 
I dont doubt Mrs W sent this money in error. However Im also satisfied that by 
making the transactions herself and by having the opportunity to review where the 
money was being sent, Mrs W authorised these transactions.
Theres no evidence there were any systemic issues with the Wise app at the times 
Mrs W used it to make these transactions. Also that would be some coincidence that 
there were problems with the app at the three different times Mrs W was making a 
payment.
The requirements are for financial institutions to act rapidly when a customer notifies 
them theyve made an error in a transaction. I can see that Wise did this and tried to 
recall the money for two transactions out of the three Mrs W had made. They were 
unable to get any funds successfully recalled. I suspect this isnt unrelated to who the 
recipient is. 
I cant be certain Mrs W made these payments in error. Its possible that these were 
payments she meant to make for further local tax payments, but I think thats unlikely, as she 
says any regular payments would be more likely to come from her account with S. 
I cant ask Wise to do anything further as theyve not done anything wrong here. As far as I 
can see theyve followed Mrs Ws initial payment instructions and then tried to recall 
payments, albeit this proved unsuccessful. I know a payment from S was recalled in error, 
but Wise has paid compensation for this which I believe is fair.
I know Mrs W will feel what has happened is unfair but Im sure she will have other avenues 
to get her money back from where this was paid if an account is now overpaid. She may find 
it easier to ask advice in the country the payment was received.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Wise 
Payments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman