DRN-1418680
The complaint
Miss D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected her claim under section 75.
What happened
Miss D booked a holiday for herself and her son with an online travel agent and paid with her 
HSBC credit card.
Miss d was unhappy about a number of aspects of her holiday. She complained to the tour 
operator and then to HSBC under section 75 seeking a refund of the cost of the holiday.
The issues about which Miss D was unhappy included pools not as described, cleanliness of 
the hotel and food/drink at the hotel causing her to become ill.
HSBC rejected Miss Ds claim. It said there was no debtor-creditor- supplier (DCS) link. Miss 
D remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought there was a DCS link and said HSBC shouldve investigated the 
complaint. The investigator looked at the available information but felt that there wasnt 
enough evidence to show that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Miss D didnt agree. She said shed complained several times at the resort and she was 
certain the food at the hotel had made her ill as she hadnt eaten anywhere else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss D didnt have the holiday experience she was hoping for and I 
understand why she wants the cost of the holiday refunded. However, I dont think HSBC 
need to do anything here. Ill explain why Ive reached my decision.
Firstly, Id like to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services 
provider (HSBC) Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party (Miss D) might have 
under section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Miss Ds 
complaint, Ive taken section 75 into account. But this doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for instance, a court might reach if Miss D pursued a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and services must be 
performed with reasonable care and skill. If this isnt the case then a  breach of contract can 
be said to have occurred. And for a misrepresentation, Miss D would need to show that the 
business made an untrue statement of fact which induced her to enter into the contract.
Ive considered all of the issues complained about by Miss D. I wont comment on all of them 
but will focus on a couple. 
In relation to the standard of the hotel, Miss D has said that it was below the standard she 
expected of a 4/5 star hotel. Star ratings differ from country to country. So for example, the 
standard of a 4 star hotel in Egypt would differ from the standard of a 4 star hotel in the UK. I 
havent seen any information to confirm what star rating the hotel Miss D booked was 
advertised at, so I cant say based on the available information whether the star rating was 
misrepresented. And whilst I appreciate that the standards at the hotel may have fallen short 
of Miss Ds expectations, theres nothing to suggest that the basic expectations of a hotel 
werent met, so I cant fairly conclude that there has been a breach of contract.
In relation to Miss D falling ill whilst on holiday, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
this was caused by food served at the hotel. In holiday sickness claims, Id generally expect 
a consumer to have reported symptoms to the hotel and to have consulted a local doctor. Id 
also expect testimony from other guests who fell ill at the same time. I havent been provided 
with any of this evidence by Miss D. The hotel has said it has no record of Miss D reporting 
illness, nor are there any records of reports of illness from other guests who stayed at the 
same time as Miss D. Based on the available evidence, I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that the food caused illness, so Im unable to say that the food wasnt of satisfactory 
quality or that theres been a breach of contract. 
In relation to the poor WIFI service, I havent seen anything to suggest that this was 
advertised as working  at a particular speed. I understand how frustrating it can be when the 
internet isnt as fast or reliable as wed like but in this case I havent seen anything to 
suggest that fast WIFI was part of the contract.
In relation to the other issues complained about by Miss D, Ive thought about these, but Im 
not persuaded that these amount to a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
I agree with the investigator that HSBC shouldve investigated this claim. Im satisfied that 
there is a DCS link. However, on the available evidence , Im not persuaded that theres 
enough information to show a breach of contract or a misrepresentation, so I dont think 
HSBCs decision to reject the claim was unreasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman