DRN-3475663
The complaint
Ms C and Mr S complain Barclays Bank UK PLC completed a remortgage for them without 
their agreement. And theyre unhappy they had to pay an early repayment charge when they 
decided to redeem the mortgage.
What happened
In 2015 Ms C and Mr S took out a repayment mortgage of around £270,000 with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC over a term of around 11 years. They paid interest at a rate that tracked 
Barclays base rate.
On 21 May 2021 they applied to extend the term of the mortgage and switch to a fixed 
interest rate over a term of five years. Barclays contacted them to request a document they 
say theyd already provided. But, after that, they didnt hear anything more despite chasing 
the Barclays mortgage adviser (MA) until they received an offer in June. Because of the 
delay, they started considering other options.
Barclays sent Ms C and Mr S a written offer dated 19 June 2021 which said Ms C and     
Mr S could contact them if they wanted to cancel their application. Ms C and Mr S received 
the offer letter on around 25 June 2021 and contacted Barclays to cancel the application 
very soon afterwards.
Barclays told Ms C and Mr S they couldnt cancel the application as the mortgage had 
completed on 19 June. Ms C and Mr S were unhappy as theyd understood when they 
rang to cancel that the cancellation would be processed, although it could take a few days.
Barclays didnt uphold their complaint. In responding to the complaint in July 2021 
Barclays said an early repayment charge (ERC) would be payable if Ms C and Mr S 
redeemed the mortgage.
Ms C and Mr S brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman at the beginning of 
August 2021. Later that month they decided to redeem the mortgage and paid an ERC of 
around £4,000 to Barclays. They want Barclays to refund the ERC to put things right. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Ms C and Mr Ss complaint. Since they were unhappy with our 
investigators view, their complaint was passed to me to consider. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive been provided with additional 
information since our investigator considered things, and Ive come to a partially 
different outcome. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance 
to provide further comments if they wish.
Ms C and Mr S first contacted Barclays on around 21 May 2021. They wanted to extend the 
term of their mortgage to reduce their contractual monthly payments. They say they 
contacted the MA during the week following their application to see how it was going. And 
she told them shed update them when she heard from the underwriters. After that Ms C 
and Mr S didnt hear anything from Barclays until they got the offer letter, despite chasing 
the MA several times by text.
Barclays say Ms C and Mr S made a Restructure Loan Application. Theyve explained the 
process was that the MA completed an application with Ms C and Mr S, recommended 
terms based on their requirements, gained their agreement to proceed, and submitted 
their application to underwriters.
Barclays say that rate switch applications dont require customers consent for them to 
proceed  by which I understand they mean complete. Barclays records show, and    
Ms C and Mr S accept, they wanted their application to go ahead as soon as possible. 
Barclays have provided a transcript of the recommendation the MA gave Ms C and Mr S 
about the remortgage. And Ms C and Mr S signed a mortgage declaration on 21 May 2021.
I note Ms C and Mr S were also extending the term of their mortgage, so it wasnt a 
straightforward rate switch. Im not currently persuaded the fact Ms C and Mr S wanted the 
application to go ahead as soon as possible meant theyd agreed to it completing without 
reviewing and accepting a written offer. None of the documents Ive mentioned told Ms C 
and Mr S in terms that were clear, fair and not misleading, as Id expect, that the 
remortgage would complete before that had happened. And Im not currently aware of any 
other evidence they were told it would.
The 19 June offer said that since Barclays had already started to make changes to the 
mortgage, there was no need for Ms C and Mr S to do anything further to accept the offer. 
But it said it was important for them to contact Barclays as soon as possible if they no 
longer wished to go ahead with the offer. I think it was reasonable for Ms C and Mr S to 
think they could cancel their application at that stage if they wanted to. And once theyd 
received the offer, they contacted Barclays promptly to do that.
Barclays say the application had been accepted and the mortgage completed on 19 June 
with the new rate being backdated to 29 May 2021. Ms C says she didnt see any change 
to the amount they were paying on 1 June. I think thats probably because completion took 
place on 19 June and any change wouldnt have been reflected until July, as Barclays 
have said. More fundamentally, Ms C and Mr S are unhappy they never agreed the 
remortgage. So, whatever the exact position is regarding backdating the rate, I dont think 
it affects Ms C and Mr Ss underlying complaint.
Ms C and Mr S say that when they rang, Barclays said cancelling the application would 
take 72 hours to process. Barclays records about what they told Ms C and Mr S then arent 
clear. Ive no reason to doubt what Ms C and Mr S say. And I can understand Ms C and   
Mr S were disappointed when Barclays said the remortgage had already gone through.
Ive thought carefully about whether its fair to ask Barclays to reimburse Ms C and Mr S the 
ERC. Based on what Ive seen, without Barclays poor service, I think Ms C and Mr S would 
probably have completed their remortgage with Barclays and been tied into the deal for five 
years. They say that when they didnt hear anything from Barclays, they assumed their 
application hadnt been accepted. And they looked at remortgaging with other lenders at 
that stage. So, I think their plan then was still to remortgage rather than pay off the 
mortgage altogether as theyve now done. I think its likely a fixed interest rate deal with 
another lender would have had an ERC even if Ms C and Mr S had managed to find more 
favourable rates. They only decided to redeem the mortgage after Barclays had responded 
to their complaint. And they knew theyd incur the ERC if they did. On balance, bearing 
everything in mind, I dont think its fair to ask Barclays to refund the ERC.However, I think the service Barclays provided in dealing with Ms C and Mr Ss application 
fell short of what they could reasonably expect. Barclays failed to keep them up to date 
with the progress of their application and to respond to their messages. The 19 June 2021 
letter gave them the false impression theyd be able to cancel the application. And they 
understood from Barclays the cancellation would be processed when they rang to cancel. I 
can understand Ms C and Mr S were inconvenienced by having to chase Barclays for 
information. And I acknowledge it will have been disappointing to find out they were 
committed to a deal if theyd found more favourable terms with another lender. To put 
things right, I think its fair for Barclays to pay Ms C and Mr S compensation of £250 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Ms C and Mr S will be disappointed not to 
recover the ERC, I intend to uphold Ms C and Mr Ss complaint in part and to direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay them £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Ms C and Mr Ss complaint in part and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay them £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Developments
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Ms C and Mr S made some additional 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Ms C and Mr Ss additional comments, I dont think they raise any 
fundamentally new points. I acknowledge their strength of feeling about Barclays poor 
communication and that they felt they had no option but to look at alternatives. But they 
had a choice about whether to redeem the Barclays mortgage and they did so knowing 
theyd be liable to pay an ERC. So, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to ask Barclays to reimburse it.
I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. For the 
reasons I set out, I think Barclays should pay compensation to Ms C and Mr S for the 
distress and inconvenience they suffered.
Putting things right
I think the appropriate compensation Barclays should pay is £250.
My final decision
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms C and Mr S £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman