DRN-3976954
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc did not explain the daily transaction limits that 
applied to his debit card, causing him embarrassment when his card was declined.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr A wanted to buy a caravan. He contacted HSBC to discuss how he could 
make the payments required  which totalled over £50,000. HSBC told him he could use his 
debit card for the payments but would need to call on the day to arrange for a temporary 
marker to be added to his account to allow such a large payment to be made using his debit 
card.
On the day he wanted to purchase the caravan Mr A called HSBC as instructed, it explained 
that a temporary marker had been added to his account for 30 minutes which would allow 
the payments to be made. Mr A was able to purchase the caravan, but when he tried to use 
his debit card later that evening it was declined.
Mr A called HSBC to ask what had happened, and HSBC explained that there was a daily 
limit of £5,000 for debit card transactions which Mr A had exceeded due to his purchase 
earlier in the day, so he would be unable to use his card for the rest of the day unless he 
arranged for a temporary marker to be added each time he needed to make a payment.
Mr A was unhappy with HSBCs explanation, he felt it should have clearly explained this to 
him when he had originally made contact about the caravan purchase, so he raised a 
complaint. HSBC did not agree it had done anything wrong, so Mr A referred his complaint to 
us.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened, and agreed that HSBC could have more 
clearly explained that Mr A would be unable to use his card for the rest of the day following 
the larger payments for the caravan. He recommended that HSBC pay Mr A £50 to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. HSBC agreed to pay this amount, but 
Mr A remained unhappy. He feels HSBC should provide him with a written apology, and 
does not feel that the £50 offered fully recognises the embarrassment caused to him.
As no agreement could be reached this complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr A had with HSBC around the time of his caravan purchase. I note 
that HSBC did comment that he should get back in touch if his card was declined later on 
that day. But I dont think this made it clear that it was very likely his card would be declined, 
or the reasons for that  namely that there was a £5,000 daily limit for debit card 
transactions. I also cant see that the terms and conditions weve been directed to by HSBC 
make it clear that there is such a limit, nor can I find any clear information about this online. 
So I cant see how Mr A would have been aware of the limit, and therefore of the possibility 
that his card would be declined and I think HSBC could have made this clearer to him during 
its conversations with him.
Because Mr A wasnt aware of the daily limit, he tried to use his card that evening and it was 
declined, as a result he had to ask his wife to pay for the transactions he was trying to make. 
Mr A says this caused him considerable embarrassment. I dont doubt that Mr A was 
embarrassed by this, but Im satisfied that the award of £50 recommended by our 
Investigator is appropriate compensation in the circumstances. 
I acknowledge that Mr A feels £50 does not adequately recognise the embarrassment 
caused by these events. But compensation can be very subjective. What one individual 
might think is appropriate compensation, could be seen as not enough by someone else. 
And, overall, Im satisfied that the £50 offered is in line with what I would award on similar 
cases.
I know that Mr A would also like a written apology, but thats not something I feel it would be 
reasonable to direct HSBC to do, and I have to question what value there would be in an 
apology that had not been sincerely made by HSBC of its own volition, but that it had instead 
been told to make.
I note that Mr A also felt that the staff he spoke to at HSBC were rude and arrogant. But 
having listened to those conversations Im satisfied that these calls were handled 
appropriately. 
So with everything in mind, Im satisfied that the award recommended by our Investigator is 
a reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint HSBC should pay Mr A £50.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman