DRN-1964181
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr Ws lifetime mortgage with Legal and General Home Finance 
Limited (L&G). Mr W says, in summary, that L&G valued his property at substantially below 
market value and by doing so has unjustly restricted the amount of money he can borrow
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
I should also explain that its for me to decide if I have enough information, or whether I need 
to contact either party directly, in order to decide the complaint fairly. Here, I have everything 
I need to reach my decision without pursuing any further enquiries with either party.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money, and lenders arent obliged to lend. 
Nor, generally speaking, is it appropriate for this service to tell lenders how much and to 
whom they should lend. I say that because its apparent to me that Mr Ws primary objective 
is to try and persuade L&G to agree that his property is suitable security for a larger loan 
than the one it has provided.
Lenders arent themselves experts in property, so they have to rely on other parties who are; 
typically firms of surveyors and/or valuers. L&Gs duty to Mr W was to appoint a suitably 
qualified and competent surveyor to carry out the valuation. Provided it did that, L&G was 
entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion when assessing how much, if anything, it was 
willing to lend to Mr W. 
Im satisfied L&G met its duty to Mr W; the surveyor it instructed works for a local firm of 
independent estate agents, and is suitably qualified by virtue of being a fellow of the Royal 
Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).  
I have no remit to consider whether there were shortcomings in the way the valuation was 
conducted, as it was the work of the surveyor, not L&G. In any event, I see that Mr W has 
indicated he may consider referring the matter to the RICS. That is his prerogative and 
nothing I say should be taken as in any way prejudicing the eventual outcome of that 
process assuming it goes ahead.
Al I can consider here is whether L&G could fairly rely on the surveyors opinion when it 
made its lending decision. For the reasons given, Im satisfied that it could and that its under 
no obligation to give preference to the offers to purchase Mr W has received as evidence 
that the property is suitable security for a larger loan than the one it has already granted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against Legal and General Home Finance Limited. My final decision 
concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman