DRN-3165843
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont repay the loss he suffered when he fell victim to 
an authorised push payment scam.
What happened
The investigator set out the details and facts of this case, and these are well-known to both 
parties, so I dont need to repeat them in detail here. 
In short, Mr O fell victim to a safe account scam in January 2021. He received a call from 
someone claiming to work in Lloyds fraud team, saying that his account was at risk and that 
he needed to move his money to a new account. 
He asked how he could know this was his bank calling and was told to check the phone 
number against Lloyds website. He did this and saw that it matched. He says that despite 
this he was remained sceptical of the callers identity. 
The caller said he needed to move his money to a new account, or if he didnt, his existing 
account would be closed and hed have to wait 30 days to have it restored  which would 
cause problems with direct debit payments for bills. So, Mr O agreed to make the transfers 
and the caller gave him the new account details to use. 
However, when he was setting up these payment details in his banking app, Mr O identified 
that the sort-code didnt correspond to a Lloyds account. He queried this. The caller told him 
that the other bank was part of the same banking group (which was untrue).
Mr O was given specific amounts to send for each payment. The caller said these numbers 
had been generated by the system. 
Mr O doesnt recall seeing any warning messages on his mobile banking, or text messages 
from Lloyds while he was making the payments. He says hed put the caller on 
speakerphone and didnt pay attention to any text messages received, explaining it could 
have been anyone sending him text messages at the time.
After making two transfers, totalling £6,139.26, the third payment he attempted was blocked 
by Lloyds. Mr O says the caller told him theyd ring back on Monday to finalise the process. 
But before that happened, Mr O mentioned what had happened to a friend who alerted him 
that hed been scammed. He reported what had happened to Lloyds.
Lloyds attempted to recover Mr Os funds from the beneficiary account. The receiving bank 
was able to retrieve all of the second payment, but only a nominal amount from payment 
one. It explained that this was because the scammer had been able to remove almost all of 
those funds before Mr O had reported the fraud to Lloyds. 
This left Mr O out of pocket by the sum of £3,648.66 - equating to almost the full value of the 
first payment hed sent. Mr O asked Lloyds to refund this loss. 
Mr O has also raised concerns about the role of the receiving bank in this. That complaint is 
the subject of a separate final decision.
Lloyds didnt think it was liable to refund Mr O for his remaining losses. It considered his 
claim under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the 
CRM Code). The CRM Code can provide additional protection when customers fall victim to 
APP scams such as this one. However, it does not mean that all APP scam payments must 
be refunded. In particular it allows a firm not to refund where it can show a customer didnt 
take enough care when making each payment.
Lloyds didnt think Mr O had taken enough care to check this was really the bank calling 
before hed sent the payments. It also didnt think hed taken enough care that those 
payments were going where he thought they were.
In particular, it said it had given Mr O a message saying that the payee name he entered 
didnt match the destination account. It said it also showed Mr O personalised scam warning 
messages inside his banking app which told him it would never call to tell him to move his 
money to another account, and that a call of that type would be a scam. These warnings had 
been shown while he was making the payments and he had to acknowledge them to 
proceed. These were not the same as text messages. 
Lloyds thought it had done what it was required to do, and said it wasnt liable to refund Mr O 
for the remaining money hed lost to the scammers.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. She thought Lloyds had treated Mr O fairly 
considering what it was required to do under the CRM Code (and otherwise). She didnt 
think Lloyds needed to refund Mr O for the remaining loss. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said hed been too busy making the payments to have seen warning 
messages. Hed later seen that Lloyds had sent him two text messages at the time, but 
these werent the same as the warning messages Lloyds was saying it gave him.
In light of this disagreement, Mr Os complaint has been referred to me to reach a final 
decision on the fair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Firstly, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Lloyds  as the Sending Bank 
from which Mr O made his payments. Mr O has made a complaint about the Receiving 
Banks actions  the bank that held the account receiving Mr Os payments. His complaint 
about that bank is the subject of a separate final decision.
Having taken everything into account here, I have reached the same conclusions as those of 
the investigator and for similar reasons.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr O. I can understand entirely why he 
feels strongly that his remaining losses should be reimbursed by Lloyds, and why he doesnt 
accept that the bank shouldnt be held responsible for the scam.However, while I have sympathy for Mr O in what happened, I have to recognise that the 
principal cause of his losses here were the scammers who deceived him.
I know Mr O has expressed concerns that the origin of the fraud may have been within 
Lloyds itself. However, I have seen no evidence to suggest that this was the case. It is 
unfortunately not uncommon that scammers are able to copy or spoof the phone number 
from which they appear to be calling. But that doesnt mean that the call originated from the 
bank  it is a vulnerability of the telephone networks that permits that number spoofing to 
happen.
In thinking about this complaint, I need to take into account that Lloyds has a primary 
obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. As a starting point, a 
customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have instructed to be made.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payments Mr O made fall within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the it can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care in making the payment (often referred to as the 
exceptions to reimbursement). 
Relevant here, this would include ignoring an effective warning by not taking the appropriate 
steps in response. It could also include where the customer made a payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, 
or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay.
Lloyds says these exceptions apply here. It reviewed Mr Os claim against the CRM Code, 
but it didnt think it was required to reimburse him. 
In deciding this complaint, I must first determine whether Lloyds has established these 
exceptions to reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that Mr O ignored an 
effective warning and/or made the payments without the required reasonable basis for belief. 
In determining these points, I have carefully considered everything Mr O has submitted as 
well as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
This scam had some features that made it seem more genuine. The number from which the 
scam call originated mirrored the genuine number shown on Lloyds website. Mr O says he 
still remained sceptical, but I can imagine why this might have helped persuade him.
But there were other features that I think should have added to that scepticism Mr O had and 
raised genuine concerns that this might not be as it seemed.
Mr O challenged the caller when he saw the money wasnt going to a Lloyds account. So, its 
clear at this point he was paying attention to what the payment screens were showing him. I 
accept that the callers explanation on this point wasnt wholly implausible.
But as well as showing Mr O the name of the destination bank, as part of the payment 
process Lloydss audit records show it told him that the payee name for the destination 
account didnt match what hed entered (so the account wasnt in his own name).
Lloyds says this message read as follows:Lloydss audit records also show that after Mr O continued past that warning, it then 
displayed a further warning message when Mr O submitted the first payment instruction - as 
below:
[This has been anonymised - in the actual version Lloyds displayed at the time, 
the redacted black box was replaced by Mr Os full first name.]
Mr O says he doesnt remember seeing either of these messages  not the one that said his 
payee name didnt match the destination account, or the message saying that Lloyds would 
never ask him to move his money to another account (and that a call like that would be a 
scam).
Ive taken into account that Mr O doesnt recall these messages. But I also need to consider 
that he did identify (when he was setting up the new payee) that the bank wasnt Lloyds and 
queried that with the caller before going ahead. That suggests he was reading what was 
shown on the payment screens and knew it could be important. 
Furthermore, the timings shown on Lloydss audit records implies that these two messages 
were displayed for more than a moment  suggesting Mr O had more than enough time to 
read them. 
Lastly, both messages required him to select an option before he could proceed on to the 
next step in the payment. So, he needed to at least briefly interact with the messages when 
they were shown. At the time the messages were shown he was in the process of firstly 
inputting the new payee account details hed been given by the scammer, and then creating 
the payment instruction - both of which required him to key details into the screen. 
Ive weighed up what I think is most likely given the evidence provided by both sides. I 
appreciate that Mr O doesnt now recall seeing these payment screens. But on balance Im 
satisfied that Lloydss audit records demonstrate it showed Mr O these messages in the 
banking app while he made the first payment. And on balance, Im satisfied Mr O would 
likely have seen them at the time even though he doesnt recall that now.
Given that Mr O believed the accounts he was moving his money to were in his name (and 
he was using his own name as the payee name) I think the first message should reasonably 
should have caused him to doubt what he was being told. It simply didnt match the story he 
was being told by the caller.
The second message said that the bank would never call you to tell you to move your 
money to another account. That text was in bold orange text immediately beneath a warning 
triangle. I find that the wording of this warning is quite clear in stating that the bank would 
never ask him to do what he was being asked being asked to do by the caller. 
I think its also relevant that the warning addressed him by his first name. It didnt have the 
appearance of a generic warning that might not be relevant to him  it began by making it 
clear the message was intended for him.
The next line, albeit in slightly smaller text said if Mr O received a call asking him to move 
money like this, then it was a scam. It didnt say it might be a scam  it said it is a scam. It 
explained that fraudsters could copy the banks phone number (which they had done here). 
It said Mr O shouldnt believe the caller and should hang up the phone. 
This second message was shown just a few minutes after Mr O had created the new payee 
details on his account - and so just after being shown the warning that the payee name didnt 
match what hed input.
On balance, I consider the effect of these messages was sufficient for Mr O to at least have 
had significant concerns that what he was being told was not genuine. He already had 
doubts - he was sceptical about what the caller was telling him. His instinct on that point was 
justified. I think in all the circumstances it is reasonable to expect that these messages ought 
to have strengthened those doubts to the point that Mr O should not have continued  he 
should have followed Lloydss advice to hang up the phone.
By proceeding to make the payment regardless, I am not satisfied he did so with a 
reasonable basis for believing that he was sending money to who he thought he was, or that 
he was legitimately dealing with his bank.
Thinking about the above in the context of the CRM Code, that means I find Lloyds was 
entitled to apply the exception for Mr O not having held a reasonable basis for believing both 
that he was paying the payee he intended, and that the person he was dealing with was 
legitimate. 
None of this takes away from the fact that Mr O was the innocent victim of a crime here. But 
that does not mean Lloyds is responsible for putting right the effects of that crime.
As I am therefore finding that Lloyds is entitled to apply that exception to full reimbursement, 
I do not need to also consider whether Mr O ignored an Effective Warning. But I have 
considered whether the warnings Lloyds gave him met the minimum requirements to be 
classed as an Effective Warning under the CRM Code.
I am satisfied that the terms of the CRM Code are broadly met by the combination of the 
warning messages Lloyds provided to Mr O for the first payment he made and so it gave 
Mr O an Effective Warning in relation to that payment.All considered, I find that Lloyds, as the sending bank, met the other obligations it had under 
the terms of the CRM Code in relation to this payment. 
Because this was the only payment for which any outstanding loss remains, it follows that I 
am satisfied that Lloyds did enough to meet the requirements of the CRM Code and does 
not now need to refund him the remaining sums. 
In terms of recovery, Lloyds also contacted the receiving bank promptly once Mr O had 
notified it of the scam - and as a result the second payment was able to be fully recovered 
together with a small part of the first. The evidence Ive seen leads me to conclude Lloyds 
met its obligations here. 
So, in short, I do not find Lloyds has unfairly assessed Mr Os scam claim against the CRM 
Code. I do not require it to do more than it has already done.
The CRM Code does not represent the full extent of the obligations on Lloyds. But it exists to 
provide additional protection where it is relevant. Nonetheless I have also considered 
whether Mr O might be entitled to reimbursement outside the provisions of the CRM Code. 
But taking everything into account, I dont find Lloyds liable for the remaining losses Mr O 
suffered from Lloyds processing payment one. Lloyds had taken steps proportionate to the 
level of risk it had identified here. I dont find it at fault for not doing more in relation to 
payment one (the payment from which the remaining losses originate).
In saying all of this, I want to stress again that I am very sorry to hear that Mr O was the 
victim of this scam. The actions of those behind the scam were cynical and took no regard of 
the impact it would have on Mr O. He is the victim of a crime. But I can only look at what 
Lloyds was and is required to do  I have no power to consider the actions of the criminal 
scammers who were ultimately responsible.
With that in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Lloyds is responsible for 
refunding Mr Os remaining losses. I understand that this is not the outcome Mr O wants and 
I recognise the impact all of this has had on him. But I can reassure Mr O that Ive carefully 
considered all the details of what happened and of his complaint before reaching what I 
consider to be the fair and reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about Lloyds Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman