DRN-3173623
The complaint
 Mr W complains about Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, currently trading as Options 
SIPP UK LLP, and trading as Carey Pensions UK LLP at the time of the relevant events, 
accepting an application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and an investment in 
Store First, from an unregulated  business  called  Commercial Land and Property Brokers  
(CL&P).   For simplicity,  I have  referred  to Options UK Personal Pensions LLP as Carey 
throughout this decision. Mr W says he has suffered a loss from the Store First investment 
and that Carey should compensate him for this loss. Mr W is represented by a Claims 
Management Company (CMC). In brief, the CMC says Carey had a duty to carry out due 
diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it and, had it done so, it ought to have 
been aware of various reasons not to deal with CL&P. 
Background
  We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Careys acceptance of a SIPP 
application and Store First investment application from CL&P in February 2021. That final 
decision has been published under DRN5472159, and a copy is attached to this decision. I 
have reached my decision in this case independently. The published decision however sets 
out the general detail of Careys relationship with, and due diligence on, CL&P and the 
general detail of Store First and Careys due diligence on that investment, across pages 2 to 
11 (up to Mr Ss dealings with CL&P and Carey).  So I will rely on that detail set out in the 
published decision here, rather than repeat it  I will only include the key factual background 
of this particular complaint here. 
Mr Ws dealings with CL&P and Carey
Mr W says he was advised by CL&P to switch his pension arrangements to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with Carey and invest in Store First following the switch. He also 
says CL&P arranged the switch to the SIPP and the Store First investment for him. 
Before being contacted by CL&P Mr W had a personal pension. Following the contact by 
CL&P the cash value of this was switched into a SIPP with Carey, and invested in Store 
First. The key events which took place during Mr Ws dealings with Carey were as follows: 
Mr W signs a Carey SIPP application form - 13 March 2012.
Carey sends its welcome letter, confirming the establishment date of the SIPP - 16 
March 2012.
Mr W signs Careys member declaration and indemnity (referred to as the indemnity 
in the published decision, using the wording quoted in full there)  12 July 2012. 
Carey sends cash from Mr Ws SIPP to Store First (£41,836) - 10 August 2012.  
There is also a copy of a letter of authority signed by Mr W, authorising Carey to deal with 
CL&P. This is undated, but presumedly pre-dates the SIPP application
Mr W has confirmed he was paid £3,000 cashback by CL&P, after the Store First 
investment was made. 
CL&P and Carey 
The below is a chronological summary (set out in greater detail in the published decision) of 
the key events during the relationship between CL&P and Carey. 
15 August 2011 - Carey begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Carey conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which allows 
subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a Zoe Adams 
and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P Carey initially 
had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues. 
27 September 2011 - Carey asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile. 
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It was 
completed and signed by Terence Wright. 
9 December 2011- Carey had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During that 
call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to transfer or 
switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the following: 
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include offering inducements.
[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Careys Head of Service and Operation, said in an email to CL&P: 
On another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in place 
between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance aspect I 
attach the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 August 2011 
which is the date of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could agree and 
complete the terms and return.
The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It was signed by Ms Adams. 
23 March 2012 - Careys compliance support said in an email to CL&P: 
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the following 
information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the company29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Carey sent an email to Ms Hallett, Careys Chief 
Executive, with the subject  03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back 
[reference removed]. That email forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a 
consumer, which included the following:
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in the sum of 
£1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investment 
And the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said this is the second member 
this week to ask when are they getting their money. 
3 April 2012 - Careys compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email: 
It is now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very kindly 
passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could receive the 
documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in anticipation of your assistance.
When asked, Carey said it has no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Carey conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report highlighted 
that he appeared on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals,
25 May 2012 - Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P.  Careys Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Careys decision in an email to CL&P of that date: 
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements 
(monetary or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we have 
received enquiries as to when client can expect to receive their money and have today been 
informed by a new client that they are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst 
investment purchase, which they confirmed was offered by a member of your staff. 
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case. 
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our Introducer 
Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept business from you.
In reply to this email CL&P asked Regarding business which you have already accepted 
from us, will you still be processing this as the client's SIPPs have already been 
established? 
28 May 2012 - Careys Ms Hallett sent the following reply to CL&P:
We will process them where we have already established the schemes, we will be writing to 
all clients informing them if they have received any monies then they must declare this to 
HMRC and their fund would also be vulnerable to a tax charge as well.
HMRC have already asked a number of SIPP providers for lists of clients who are investing 
in alternatives, they will I am sure be doing some random checks and will charge people for 
unauthorised transactions if they have received cash sums for transferring their pension and 
making investments.
I would urge you and your agents to review your position if you are continuing this as part of 
your sales process, ultimately no SIPP providers will be taking the business, it is not 
allowable as we have explained to you previously.Submissions made by Mr W
We asked Mr W for some further detail of his recollections. We asked the following 
questions, and received the replies quoted in italics: 
Were you interested in changing your pension at the time of being contacted by 
CL&P? Why? What attracted you to CL&P? What attracted you to the Store Pod 
investment? 
I was cold called then was sold a big dream about what would happen if I moved my 
pension. I had no interest in moving my pension before I was cold called. 
What role did you think CL&P had in this transaction? 
I dont really know. It came across as if they were one company and they were going to do 
everything. It wasnt until a few weeks later that I learned that Careys were the provider.
Did CL&P recommend any products to you? Can you recall what it said to you? 
I cant remember. I just remember being told some sort of guarantees and that I would be 
much better off.
What was your understanding of the payment CL&P was offering? What did you think 
of this? 
I thought it was part of the transfer to the pension. I assumed some sort of signing on type 
incentive.
If you had been aware that this payment might have tax consequences, what would 
you have done? 
It wouldve raised questions and doubts in my mind and wouldve made me wary about the 
offer.
If Carey had told you that Mr Terence Wright, a director of CL&P, was the subject of 
an FSA alert, what would you have done? 
Its a no-brainer. Nobody in their right mind wouldve gone ahead with the transfer.
Carey ended its relationship with CL&P in May 2012. If you had been made aware of 
this what would you have done? 
I wouldve asked the question why and would become suspicious.
What is your understanding of how the Store First investment works? 
I am unsure how they work. I think they are a storage warehouse or a plot and I was told I 
would get guaranteed returns from them. It was never explained to me clearly.
Did you understand the risks associated with a high risk, speculative investment? 
What are they in your own words? 
No. I dont understand what it is.
What was your understanding of the risks associated with the Store First investment? Please explain your answer fully. 
I didnt think there was a risk because if theyre guaranteed returns you wouldnt assume 
there is any.
What did you think Careys role was at the time? 
I didnt really know what Careys role was at the time. I had a letter from them (I cant 
remember what it said) but thats when I realised they were a part of this. I think I remember 
querying this with them as Id not heard of them before but I cant be fully certain of this.
Your SIPP was set up in March 2012 and your investment in Store First was made 
on 10 August 2012. Were you aware that you were still free to choose whether or not 
to invest in Store First after the SIPP had been set up? 
No
On 12 July 2012, you signed a Members Declaration & Indemnity (the indemnity) 
which included the following statement I am fully aware that this investment is an 
Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk and / or Speculative. Did you read 
the indemnity before signing it? What does this indemnity mean to you in your own 
words? 
I dont know if I read it, I cant remember. I dont understand what the statement means.
Submissions made by Carey 
The submissions made by Carey in this complaint are essentially the same as those 
summarised in the published decision. That summary also includes general submissions 
about Careys relationship with CL&P. So I will rely here on the summary given in the 
published decision under Careys submissions rather than repeat the detail. 
The investigators view 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses and the regulatory publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles were relevant considerations here. 
Carey carried out significant due diligence, but it took a piecemeal approach, and in 
the meantime accepted business from CL&P. Had it carried out all its due diligence 
at the outset, it ought to have concluded it should not accept business from CL&P at 
all. 
Carey should have conducted background checks on the directors of CL&P at the 
outset, rather than on two members of CL&Ps staff. Had Carey checked the 
directors at the outset it would have discovered that Terence Wright was subject to a 
warning on the FSAs website. 
Careys concerns were such that it actually stopped doing business with CL&P once 
it became aware of the warnings and incentives issue. Had it completed the relevant 
checks before accepting business from CL&P it ought to have concluded that it 
shouldnt enter into a relationship with it.
It is not clear why Carey did not ask for accounts and identification documents at the 
outset, but only did this after the relationship had been ongoing for a number of months. The fact that CL&P failed to provide this information, despite reminders, was 
cause for concern. Had Carey asked at the outset and CL&P had failed to provide 
them, it should not have entered into a relationship with CL&P. 
The wording of the FSA warning about Terence Wright changed sometime between 
2010 and 2013. However, the aim of the warning was clearly to highlight that this was 
an individual who parties ought to be wary of conducting business with, and that 
Terence Wright was targeting UK customers.
Carey should have been concerned the agreement with CL&P signed in March 2012 
wasnt signed by the directors of CL&P. 
Carey was concerned CL&P was offering cash back incentives to consumers in 
December 2011. And ultimately, Careys concerns about CL&P were such that by 25 
May 2012 it stopped doing business with CL&P completely.
In this case Mr W has said that he received a cash payment CL&P, when completing 
the transfer and investment. Given Mr Ws level of experience in pensions and 
investments, he did not think that this would, necessarily, have led him to think that 
something was wrong.
And the fact remains that Carey had been aware that incentives were being offered 
by CL&P before it passed Mr Ws money for investment. This ought to have raised 
serious questions about the conduct of CL&P and the quality of the business it was 
bringing about. If CL&P was offering consumers incentives that called into question 
its integrity.
Carey put some reliance on the indemnity signed by Mr W. But it should not have 
accepted his application at all, so should not have required him to sign any 
documents. And asking Mr W to sign the indemnity did not mean it was fair and 
reasonable to proceed with Mr Ws investment instructions. 
Careys response to the investigators view 
In assessing the complaint, we must take into account the overarching context of the 
relationship that Carey has with its customers, including Mr W, being one of a self-
invested personal pension scheme in which Carey acts on a strictly execution 
only/non-advised basis and is member-directed throughout. Carey is not permitted to, 
and does not, provide advice or otherwise comment on the suitability of investments 
or any other aspect of a customers SIPP. Carey expressly states that all customers 
should seek independent financial advice from an adviser who is regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
The fundamental consideration that underpins the view is the contention that had 
Carey identified that Mr Terence Wright was on the FSAs warning list and informed 
Mr W of this, then it should not have accepted business from CL&P, or Mr W would 
not have proceeded with the investment. 
There is a material difference between a warning detailing that you should not deal 
with a particular individual and a notice informing you that an individual is not a 
regulated individual and that the ombudsman service and FSCS would not be 
available to you if you chose to deal with such individual. The wording in the FCAs 
notice published on 15 October 2010, which was available to Carey at the time it 
undertook its due diligence on CL&P, does not include any such warning stating that 
Terence (Terry) Wright is an individual to avoid or be wary of; the Notice amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on regulated 
activities, a fact of which Carey was well aware and upon which basis it accepted 
referrals from CL&P. Carey reasonably considered at all times that CL&P was an 
unregulated introducer which was not providing advice. 
There is nothing in the notice published on 15 October 2010 to indicate that Terence 
(Terry) Wright is an individual to avoid as such, it is not fair or reasonable to state 
that on the basis of a notice that simply informs that Terence (Terry) Wright is not 
regulated by the FCA, that Carey should not have accepted this business. 
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear warning including an 
express comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would 
have put Carey on notice to stop accepting business from Mr Wright, is irrelevant in 
this case because Carey had already severed its Terms of Business some 18 
months before the warning in 2013 regarding Mr Wright was published. 
The fact that the FSA later made express comment as to Mr Wright's conduct, but did 
not make any comment of a similar nature in the earlier wording plainly indicates that 
at the time that Carey accepted business from CL&P, the FSA did not believe 
Mr Wright to have been providing financial services or products without authorisation 
at that time, nor consider it necessary to express any concerns in this regard.
If the FSA did not consider there to be any cause for concern at the relevant time and
there was no way through reasonable due diligence checks for Carey to establish any cause 
for concern, then plainly it is not fair or reasonable to have expected Carey to have rejected 
business from CL&P on this basis.
COBS 11.2.19R, which deals with execution only business and was in force at the 
relevant time, stated as follows:
"Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute the order 
following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps to obtain the best 
possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an order, or a specific aspect of an 
order, following specific instructions from the client relating to the order or the specific aspect 
of the order."
The significance of this rule to an execution only business, such as Carey, cannot be 
overstated. Carey would have been in breach of COBS if it had not executed Mr W's 
specific instructions to make the investment. 
There is no rule, guidance, or requirement that a regulated business is prohibited or 
encouraged not to do business with an entity which is the subject of an FSA/FCA 
warning, solely by virtue of the fact that it is subject to that warning. 
The investigators view amounts to a requirement for Carey to have refused business 
from a business associated with an individual on the basis that it should have been 
"wary of conducting regulated business with" him, despite the FSA/FCA not having 
made such a comment, prohibiting businesses from dealing with Mr Wright, or having 
taken any action against him. 
After the published decision was issued, Carey was asked to take it into consideration, as an 
important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which 
should be taken into account when assessing other similar complaints. 
On this basis, Carey was asked to review each outstanding complaints involving CL&P and 
Store First  including Mr Ws - and if it was not prepared to make a settlement offer taking 
account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why it was 
distinguishing it from the published decision. To date Carey has not carried out such a 
review. Mr Ws complaint has therefore been passed to me for review and Im satisfied that 
there is no need to wait any further before progressing this complaint. 
We shared a copy of the questions asked of Mr W, and the answers he provided to those 
questions, with Carey and invited it to make any comments on these it wanted us to take into 
account. No response has been received from Carey. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 September 2021.  Mr A accepted my provisional 
decision, and made no further comments. Carey did not respond to my provisional decision. 
We sent a reminder to it on 22 October and told it we would proceed to a final decision if we 
did not hear from it by the deadline for response i.e. 24 October 2021. Carey did not respond 
to this reminder. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision. And, as I have no 
further submissions to consider, I have repeated my provisional findings below. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. Having done so, for similar reasons as set out in the published 
decision I have reached the view that this complaint should be upheld. 
In my view the relevant considerations set out in the published decision apply here  so I will 
refer to the published decision rather than repeat those considerations here. 
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. 
I am of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply to 
an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this means 
Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of both 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ws case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High 
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied 
with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case. The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ws complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing 
that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is 
a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams 
v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr 
Adams statement of case.  
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not able  
to give advice to Mr W on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First investment for him 
personally. But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. As the published decision sets out, this is consistent with Careys own 
understanding of its obligations at the relevant time. 
I acknowledge Carey has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the Court of 
Appeal judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the grounds of 
appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this case and 
therefore it is unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application or, if 
permission is granted, the Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate to 
determine this complaint now. 
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations I am satisfied that, in order to meet 
the appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the regulators  
rules and regulations, Carey should have carried out due diligence on CL&P to the sort of 
standard which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at 
the time and carried out due diligence on the Store First investment which was consistent 
with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time. And Carey should have 
used the knowledge it gained from that due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a 
referral of business or a particular investment. 
I am also satisfied that, as in the complaint subject to the published decision, the contract 
between Carey and Mr W does not mean that Carey should not be held responsible for 
failing to comply with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due diligence on CL&P 
and the Store First investment which ultimately led to Mr W losing a significant part of his 
pension. 
In this complaint, like the complaint subject to the published decision, Carey had obtained 
information many months before it facilitated Mr Ws investment which led it to reject any 
further referrals from CL&P and had concerns about the Store First investment before it 
facilitated Mr Ws investment. So in this complaint, like the complaint subject to the published 
decision, it would not be fair and reasonable to say the contract meant Carey could ignore all red flags and proceed with Mr Ws business regardless.  
In my view, like the complaint subject to the published decision, had Carey done what it 
ought to have done here, and drawn reasonable conclusions from what it knew or ought to 
have known, it should not have accepted either the application for Mr Ws SIPP from CL&P 
or the Store First investment.
Due diligence on CL&P
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been 
privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P. 
Mr Ws application was accepted on 16 March 2012. As the published decision sets out it is 
fair and reasonable to say by that time Carey ought to have known that CL&Ps director was 
Mr Terence Wright, and that he was on the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list, which 
was described on the website as a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals 
that we believe you should not deal with.
Careys Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court during the Adams v Carey 
hearing (at Paragraph 60) which HHJ Dight summarised as follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published warnings 
about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not authorised under 
FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check 
was made to see whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs 
website until May 2012. The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 
25 May 2012. She accepted that had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the 
defendant would not have dealt with CLP. 
The money was sent to Store First on 10 August 2012. As the published decision sets out, in 
addition to being aware Mr Wright was on the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list, it is 
fair and reasonable to say by that time Carey knew, or ought to have known:
That what CL&P had told it in December 2011 about cash incentives not being 
offered was not correct. So CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own 
words, completely against all rules. And CL&P was acting without integrity as it had 
not told it the truth when asked about cash incentives.
Multiple requests had been made for copies of CL&Ps accounts, but CL&P was 
unwilling to provide this information. 
So for similar reasons as set out in the published decision, it is my finding that if Carey had 
carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P, or acted on the information it subsequently 
received in a timely manner, it should not have accepted Mr Ws application from CL&P  or, 
at the very least, not continued to process it. 
Investment due diligence
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been 
privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on Store First. 
As the published decision sets out, at the time Mr Ws application was accepted Carey knew 
or ought to have known:
There were factors in the report Carey obtained on Harley Scott Holdings Ltd (the promoter of Store First) which ought to have been of concern  namely the adverse 
comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the business had 
recently changed its name. 
Dylan Harvey (one of three previous names of Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, which at 
the time had the web address dylanharvey.com) and one of its directors, Toby 
Whittaker, were the subject of a number of national press reports, online petitions 
and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed property investment. 
Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had recently been involved in a property investment 
scheme which had failed. It had also recently changed its name, and had been 
subject to a number of adverse comments in succession, following audit.  
Store Firsts marketing material set out high fixed returns, and said these were 
guaranteed. The material did not contain any type of risk warning, or illustrations of 
any other returns. No explanation of the guarantees was offered, or the basis of the 
projected returns  other than Store Firsts own confidence in its business model and 
the self-storage marketplace. 
The conclusion of the Enhanced Support Solutions report Carey had obtained was 
inconsistent with the result of Careys own company searches. The report also 
makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material. 
The marketing material showed there was a significant risk that potential investors 
were being misled. 
Store First appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to 
provide high and rising returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high 
level of liquidity together with a strong prospect of a capital return - despite the fact 
that there was no investor protection associated with the investment and that, in 
Careys own words, there is no apparent established market for the investment and 
the investment is potentially illiquid
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Carey couldnt be certain 
that the investment operated as claimed. 
Consumers may have been misled or did not properly understand the investment 
they intended to make. 
And, by the time the money was sent to Store First, as the published decision sets out, 
Carey knew, or ought to have known:
Store First was paying commission of 12% to CL&P. Payment of such a high level of 
commission to an unregulated business was very serious cause for concern, given 
how the investment was being marketed. How Store First was funding such levels of 
commission alongside guaranteed income payments and guaranteed buy backs 
called the nature of the Store First investment into serious question. 
There were issues with Store First which were of sufficient concern for it to suspend 
acceptance of the investment. 
On the latter point, Carey suspended acceptance of new investments in Store First in August 
2012. It has not confirmed the date at which this suspension was placed. But it has provided 
details of an internal meeting, which took place on 15 August 2012, at which concerns about 
Store First were discussed. And it has provided a copy of an internal email dated 17 August 2012 which says new investments in Store First had been suspended. So it seems likely the 
decision to suspend new investments in Store First was taken during or shortly after the 15 
August 2012 meeting, and that Mr Ws investment therefore pre-dates the suspension by a 
few days. 
However, it is clear from the available evidence that by the date on which Carey sent cash 
from Mr Ws SIPP to Store First Carey had the concerns that led to the suspension of the 
acceptance of new investments in Store First. As set out in the published decision these 
related to Rental Income Process/Delays, Sale Process/Delays, a tax investigation and 
that the marketing material provided for . a guaranteed rental income but only a small 
proportion of Store First investors were receiving the rental income as expected. 
As in the complaint subject to the published decision, I think all of the points listed above 
should have been considered alongside the fact the investment was being sold by an 
unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. I think it is fair and 
reasonable to find that Carey ought to have concluded there was an obvious risk of 
consumer detriment here.
So, given the circumstances at the time of Mr Ws application, I think the fair and reasonable 
conclusion, based on what Carey knew or ought to have known at the time, is that Carey 
should not have accepted Mr Ws application to invest in Store First. In my opinion, it ought 
to have concluded that it would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations, or best 
practice, to do so. 
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mr Ws 
instructions?
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is largely the same as the view set out in 
the published decision. The key points here are: 
It was not fair and reasonable for Carey to have accepted Mr Ws application from 
CL&P in the first place. So, Mr Ws SIPP should not have been established and the 
opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity 
should not have arisen at all. 
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. I consider there 
is a significant imbalance of knowledge between the parties which creates unfairness 
in the circumstances of this case. At the time of receiving Mr Ws application and 
executing his investment instructions, Carey knew things that Mr W did not. 
Carey was required by its regulatory obligations to ensure that it treated its 
customers fairly. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that this would have required 
Carey to either have stopped  Mr W from proceeding any further with the Store First 
investment, or as a minimum, to have explained the situation to Mr W as soon as 
possible and let him have the opportunity of making an informed decision whether or 
not to proceed. 
If it had done the latter, I am satisfied that Mr W would not have proceeded with the 
investment in Store First. And he would therefore not have lost his entire pension 
fund.
Mr W has told us that had he been made aware that Carey had ended its relationship 
with CL&P, he would have become suspicious and asked why. In my view, it is 
unlikely this would have led to Mr W having confidence to continue dealing with 
CL&P.   Mr W has told us he was told by CL&P that he was guaranteed returns. So, when 
he signed the indemnity, I am not persuaded that he did so with a full understanding 
of what high risk meant.  Instead he was assured by what he had been told by CL&P 
and thought that the returns were guaranteed. 
I do not think the cash incentive was a factor of significant influence. Rather it seems 
it was the prospect of high guaranteed returns (what he describes as a big dream) 
which was the main motivating factor for Mr W. 
Is it fair to ask Carey to compensate Mr W? 
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is also largely the same as the view set 
out in the published decision. The key points here are: 
I do not consider the fact that Mr W signed the indemnity means that he shouldnt be 
compensated if it is fair to do so.
Had Carey acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it 
should not have accepted Mr Ws application to open a SIPP introduced from CL&P. 
That should have been the end of the matter  it should have told Mr W that it could 
not accept the business.  So if that had happened, the arrangement for Mr W would 
not have come about in the first place, and the loss he suffered could have been 
avoided. 
Had Carey explained to Mr W why it would not accept the application from CL&P or 
was terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that Mr W would have tried to 
find another SIPP operator to accept the business. 
In any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not 
compensate Mr W for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator 
would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to 
assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the 
application from CL&P, or would have terminated the transaction before completion. 
Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Ws actions mean he should bear the 
loss arising as a result of Careys failings. I acknowledge Mr W was warned of the 
high-risk nature of Store First and declared he understood that warning. But Carey 
failed to act on, nor did it share, significant warning signs with Mr W so that he could 
make an informed decision about whether to proceed with the investment. And, in 
these circumstances, I am satisfied that Carey should not have asked him to sign the 
indemnity at all.   
With all this in mind, Im of the opinion that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of this case to find that Carey is unable to rely on the indemnity that Mr W signed in order to 
avoid liability for the regulatory failings it has made in this case. So I am satisfied that it is fair 
and reasonable to conclude that Carey should compensate Mr W for the loss he has 
suffered to his pension.
Putting things right
 I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry best 
practice at the relevant time have led to Mr W suffering a significant loss to his pension. And 
my aim is therefore to return Mr W to the pension position he would now be in but for 
Careys failings. When considering this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with 
restitution/compensation.
In light of my above findings, in my view Carey should calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mr W would be in if he had not transferred 
from his existing pension. In summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr W has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ws pension.  If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr W direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr W has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Ws pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP. 
Carey should ask Mr W's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr W has suffered. The Store First investment 
should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of the cash back 
payment paid out to Mr W. This can be taken into account in the calculation on the basis of it 
having been paid at the outset i.e. the same approach can be taken as was taken by the 
Court of Appeal in its supplementary judgement. 
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment
I note that the Court of Appeal attached a value to the Store First investment. However, 
here, I am able to ask Carey to take ownership of the investment. And I understand Carey 
has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil consideration, in 
other cases. So it should do that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is a fair approach in the 
circumstances of this case, as it allows the SIPP to close and gives Carey the option of 
retaining the investment or realising its current market value. 
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable 
value in the future.  I understand Mr W has the option of returning his Store First investment 
to the freeholder for nil consideration.  That should enable him to close his SIPP, if Carey 
does not take ownership of the Store First investment. 
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr W decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about these costs. 
3. Pay compensation to Mr W for loss he has suffered calculated in (1). 
Since the loss Mr W has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Mr W could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ws marginal 
rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr W may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr W direct.  But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr W should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ws marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr W has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. 
This is money Mr W cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused him upset.  I 
note the Court of Appeal did not find compensation should be paid for non financial loss. But 
my role here is to determine what, in my view, is fair compensation in the particular 
circumstances of this case. And I consider that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for 
the upset Mr W has suffered.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Options SIPP UK LLP 
should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
John Pattinson
Ombudsman 
Copy of DRN5472159Complaint
Mr S complains that an unregulated business called Commercial Land and Property Brokers 
(CL&P) introduced him to Options SIPP UK LLP, (which was trading as Carey Pensions 
UK LLP (Carey) at the time of the relevant events). Mr S subsequently switched his 
pension arrangements to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Carey and invested 
in Store First following the switch. Mr S says he has suffered a loss from the Store First 
investment and that Carey should compensate him for this loss. 
The complaint has been made on Mr Ss behalf by a Claims Management Company 
(CMC). The CMC says, in summary: 
Carey was required to adhere to the regulators Principles and Rules.
Mr S switched his personal pension to a SIPP with Carey, in order to make an 
investment called Store First, that was unregulated and high risk. 
Mr S was introduced to Carey by an unregulated business called CL&P. A director of 
CL&P was Terence Wright. 
Terence Wright was the subject of a warning published on the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) website on 15 October 2010.  
CL&P was promoting unregulated investments to the general public and was 
remunerated by the unregulated investment companies. 
If Carey had carried out appropriate due diligence on CL&P it would have been 
obvious that no instruction from CL&P should have been accepted. 
Mr S received advice from CL&P that the Store First investment would provide him 
with a much better pension than his existing arrangements. 
CL&P pre populated the SIPP application form and sent the signed declaration form 
to Carey  neither of these was sent to Carey by Mr S. Mr S did not fully understand 
the forms but trusted CL&P, who gave him what he thought were plausible reasons 
why the forms needed to be signed. 
Careys declaration forms were not implemented to treat Mr S fairly  they were only 
an attempt to absolve Carey of any liability. 
CL&Ps letter of authority to act for Mr S was sub-standard, as it did not contain an 
address for CL&P. This demonstrates that Carey failed to apply the regulators 
Principle 2 ("A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence).
All CL&P instructions would be to invest in unregulated investments, regardless of 
the clients understanding, attitude to risk, investment knowledge and affordability. 
Carey Pensions breached the regulators Principle 3 (A firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems), in that it ignored the responsibility of safeguarding its clients. 
For these reasons, the CMC believes Carey is responsible for the loss Mr S has suffered. 
Background
Carey  Carey is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, Carey 
was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Carey was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate or wind 
up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
CL&P 
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. Mr S says that he was cold-called by 
CL&P and told he could get a much better return on his pension if he switched it to a SIPP 
and invested in Store First.
At the time of the events complained of, one of the directors of CL&P was a Terence Wright. 
On 15 October 2010, the following was published on the FSA website in a section titled  
Firms and individuals to avoid, which was described on the website as a warning list of 
some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you should not deal with:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has today published this statement in order to warn 
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
The purpose of this statement is to advise members of the public that an individual 
Terence (Terry) Wright
is not authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things, advising on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK customers via the 
firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
CL&P and Carey 
Carey has told us that it was approached by CL&P in 2011 and that it entered into 
discussions about accepting introductions from it. Carey began to accept introductions from 
CL&P on 15 August 2011 and ended its relationship with it on 25 May 2012. 
Carey says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P. It says it reviewed CL&P's profile, 
conducted searches, reviewed CL&Ps website and literature and had conversations with 
CL&Ps representatives over the telephone. 
I have set out below a summary, in chronological order, of what I consider to be the key 
events and/or actions during the relationship between Carey and CL&P, which I have taken 
from the available evidence (this includes evidence from Mr Ss case file and generic 
submissions Carey has made to us on other cases about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, CL&P). 
I have not seen any evidence to show Carey carried out any due diligence on CL&P before it 
began accepting introductions from it in August 2011. Rather, as I set out below, it began to 
accept introductions then carried out its due diligence whilst accepting business from CL&P. 
Summary
15 August 2011 - Carey begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Carey conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which allows 
subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a Zoe Adams 
and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P Carey initially 
had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues. 
27 September 2011 - Carey asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile. The 
form itself explains its purpose as follows; As an FSA regulated pensions company we are 
required to carry out due diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking 
to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business they carry out. Furthermore, 
when making this request, by email, Careys Chief Executive, Christine Hallett, explained 
we require for our compliance process to perform due diligence on companys (sic) who we 
enter into a business and professional relationship with. 
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It was 
completed and signed by Terence Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used an 0845 telephone number.
It had been trading for two years and had two directors  Terence Wright and Lesley 
Wright.
It had eight agents, and promoted four investments  Store First, and three other 
unregulated investments.
It worked with four other SIPP operators. 
Its source of business was referrals and web enquiries. 
Its sales process involved a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings. 
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various compliance officers. 
The document makes no mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. After completing the document 
Mr Wright was asked to make the following declaration:
I declare the above is a true and accurate reflection of [name of individual or Firm] and that 
Carey Pensions UK LLP can rely on this information. 
I/we fully indemnify Carey Pensions UK LLP against any costs incurred as a result of any 
inaccuracies within this form. I/we also acknowledge and accept that Carey Pensions UK will undertake any enquiries 
about the firm and its Directors/Partners it feels appropriate. 
9 December 2011- Carey had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During that 
call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to transfer or 
switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the following: 
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include offering inducements.
[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Careys Head of Service and Operation, said in an email to CL&P: 
On another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in place 
between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance aspect I 
attach the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 August 2011 
which is the date of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could agree and 
complete the terms and return.
The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It was signed by Ms Adams. 
23 March 2012 - Careys compliance support said in an email to CL&P: 
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the following 
information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Carey sent an email to Ms Hallett, Careys Chief 
Executive, with the subject  03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back 
[reference removed]. That email forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a 
consumer, which included the following:
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in the sum of 
£1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investment 
And the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said this is the second member 
this week to ask when are they getting their money. 
3 April 2012 - Careys compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email: 
It is now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very kindly 
passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could receive the 
documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in anticipation of your assistance.
When asked, Carey said it has no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Carey conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report included the 
following: THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS REPORTED IN ONE OR MORE OF THE 
SOURCES BELOW
[FINANCIAL SERVICES WARNING]
Appears on the UK Financial Services Authority.
[REPORTS]
Appears on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals,
INFORMATION SOURCES;
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/unauthorised.shtmI - ARCHIVE
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/lndex.shtml - ARCHIVE
Entered: 2011/10/24
25 May 2012 - Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P.  Careys Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Careys decision in an email to CL&P of that date: 
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements 
(monetary or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we have 
received enquiries as to when client can expect to receive their money and have today been 
informed by a new client that they are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst 
investment purchase, which they confirmed was offered by a member of your staff. 
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case. 
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our Introducer 
Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept business from you.
In reply to this email CL&P asked Regarding business which you have already accepted 
from us, will you still be processing this as the client's SIPPs have already been 
established? 
28 May 2012 - Careys Ms Hallett sent the following reply to CL&P:
We will process them where we have already established the schemes, we will be writing to 
all clients informing them if they have received any monies then they must declare this to 
HMRC and their fund would also be vulnerable to a tax charge as well.
HMRC have already asked a number of SIPP providers for lists of clients who are investing 
in alternatives, they will I am sure be doing some random checks and will charge people for 
unauthorised transactions if they have received cash sums for transferring their pension and 
making investments.
I would urge you and your agents to review your position if you are continuing this as part of 
your sales process, ultimately no SIPP providers will be taking the business, it is not 
allowable as we have explained to you previously.
I have seen no evidence that shows Carey wrote to consumers to inform them that any cash 
incentives paid would be vulnerable to a tax charge. 
Store FirstThe Store First investment took the form of one or more self-storage units, which were part 
of a larger storage facility in a UK location. Investors bought one or more units in the facility 
and (based on the information I have seen about the investment) were offered a guaranteed 
level of income for a set period of time. After that, they could either take whatever income 
the unit(s) provided, or sell them (assuming there was a market for them). 
The material I have seen shows the Store First investment was marketed as offering a 
guaranteed 8% return in the first two years, an indicated return of 10% in the following two 
years, and 12% in the next two years. It was also marketed as offering a guaranteed buy 
back after five years. But little of this materialised. It seems most investors received one or 
two years income of 8%, but nothing beyond that. And investors have found it very difficult 
to sell, with those that have sold receiving a small fraction of the amount they paid for their 
pods. 
In the judgment in Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2020] 
EWHC 1299 (Ch) (Adams v Carey), the judge found the value of Mr Adams pods, acquired 
for around £52,000 in July 2012, to be £15,000 as of January 2017. I have also seen several 
results of auctions of the pods, where the sale price has been much lower than the price at 
which the pods were purchased. 
In May 2014, the Self Storage Association of the UK (SSA UK) issued a press release 
(amended in January 2015), detailing the outcome of a review it had commissioned Deloitte 
LLP to undertake of the marketing material made available to potential investors by Store 
First. 
The release recommended that any potential investors in Store First storage units consider 
the following key points before taking any investment decision:
What will the impact be on the business model if VAT is charged on the rental of 
storage units to customers following a review by HMRC? 
How is Store First funding guaranteed returns to investors? Is this from operating 
profits, the proceeds from the sale of other storage pods to investors, or a different 
source? 
Compare the total value being paid for all the units in a Store First self storage site 
against the price at which stand-alone self-storage businesses have been valued and 
sold at recently. 
Consider if there is a realistic re-sale opportunity for, and exit, from this investment, 
particularly if Store First exits the business. 
Research the performance of investments based on a similar investment model that 
have been offered primarily in Australia, such as Ikin Self Storage in Townsville, 
Queensland and Strata Self Storage in Melbourne (these schemes had failed).
The release refers to a number of misleading and inaccurate statements made by Store First 
in its marketing material. It also makes the following observations: 
SSA UKs investigations indicate that these storage units are being rented to the general 
public at approximately £18 - £21 per square foot including insurance. Normally the rent paid 
by a self-storage operator would be at most half of the income per square foot earned 
through storage fees. Presuming the Store First sites were at industry average occupancy 
levels, SSA UK believe that they would have to be earning £23.95 per square foot just to pay 
the guaranteed rent to investors, excluding operating costs such as insurance, staff, business rates, utilities, marketing and management fees for Store First.
Store First is obliged to pay the guaranteed returns to investors, yet there does not appear to 
be sufficient income from the operations of the business to fund these returns
The analysis SSA UK has seen indicates that the purchase price being paid per square foot 
by investors to Store First for these self-storage units taken together equates to a much 
higher value than they would be worth if the whole sites were sold as stand-alone self-
storage stores. 
.a very serious question arises over how Store First is funding the guaranteed returns to 
existing investors, considering the absence of bank funding and the likely level of losses that 
require funding in each new store. It may yet prove to be the case that the rental returns 
being paid to investors are in fact being funded from the sale proceeds of new units, and not 
the operation of the self-storage business.
On 30 April 2019 the courts made an order shutting down Store First and three of the related 
companies by consent between those four companies and the Secretary of State. The 
Official Receiver was appointed as liquidator. At the time, the Chief Investigator for the 
Insolvency Service said:
These four companies unscrupulously secured millions of pounds worth of investments 
using a variety of methods that misled investors, particularly those with pension savings.
The court rightly recognised the sheer scale of the problem caused by Store Firsts sales of 
a flawed business model, based on misrepresentation and misleading information and has 
shut down these companies in recognition of the damage done to investors retirement plans.
The available evidence shows the following actions were taken by Carey in relation to the 
Store First investment, at the dates mentioned. I have set out my summary (updated 
following my provisional decision, to reflect the further evidence about Carey has now 
provided about its suspension of accepting Store First) in chronological order. 
Summary
3 May 2011  Carey is contacted by a promoter of Store First, Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, 
about a newly launched product  Store First. Harley Scott Holdings Ltd said that an 
unregulated business had asked it to pass the product through to Carey. In response, 
Carey says the investment will be put through its review process.
In its submissions to us Carey says this review process was established in accordance with 
its obligations and FSA recommendations at the time, which required it to conduct due 
diligence into the Store First investment to assess its suitability for holding within a SIPP.
9 June 2011  Carey says it will accept the investment in its SIPP, having considered:
the brochure
the agreement for Grant of Sublease
the sublease
Companies House searches a Compliance review (referring to an Enhanced Support Solutions report). 
It has provided us with copies of these documents. 
In the letter dated 9 June 2011, sent to the unregulated business which Harley Scott 
Holdings Ltd had referred to in its request to Carey, confirming its acceptance of Store First, 
Carey noted: 
The investor purchases a 250 year lease of a storage unit within a storage facility. 
The unit is then sublet to the management company, Store First, subject to an initial 
6 year term with 2 year break clauses.
The investor's interest can be sold/assigned at any time. The break clauses allow the 
investor to rent out the units individually without the services of the management 
company (but it insisted they use the management company).
There was no apparent established market for the investment.
The investment was potentially illiquid in that it was a direct property investment 
which may take time to sell. However, it could be sold providing a willing buyer can 
be found and was assignable so could be transferred in specie to beneficiaries.
It also said its acceptance was subject to a member declaration and indemnity being 
completed and signed by each member, and the appointment of a solicitor to act for the 
Trustees in respect of any purchase. 
20 May 2012  the Adams v Carey judgment refers to an internal Carey email of this date, 
referring to a conversation between Carey and Store First about commission, during which 
Store First had said it believed 12% commission was paid to CL&P. 
15 August 2012- a meeting between Store First and Carey took place. Items on the agenda 
included Rental Income Process/Delays, Sale Process/Delays and Agreed Actions. No 
further details (such as minutes) of this meeting have been provided.
17 August 2012 - A member bulletin is sent to Carey by an information service it subscribed 
to which included the following: 
Storefirst Limited 
We are aware of a web-based news article that mentions 'Toby Whittaker's firm faces tax 
investigation' and goes on to reference notes made within the February 2011 accounts of 
Harley Scott Holdings. [the information service] has sought confirmation from Toby Whittaker 
on this and have been referred to [Store Firsts auditors] who [the information service] 
understands to be the Harley Scott accountants. [Store Firsts auditors] have supplied a 
letter to [the information service] to clarify the position regarding Storefirst, however as the 
letter is addressed to [the information service] we have been asked not to circulate the letter 
as [Store Firsts auditors] wish to control its distribution. [Store Firsts auditors] have agreed 
though to issue a similar letter addressed to individual SIPP operators/trustees upon 
request. We will leave it to our [the information service] clients to decide whether they 
require such a letter, however where a letter is required, the contact details for [Store Firsts 
auditors] are below and they are on notice they may receive requests from clients of [the 
information service]. 
17 August 2012  Carey suspended its acceptance of the investment because of concerns 
about the administration and system and controls of the investment provider.17 August 2012  Carey sends an internal email referring to the above bulletin, which 
included the following;
Storefirst  we suspended further new investment, and in light of the comments from [the 
information service it subscribed to], I have emailed [Store Firsts auditors] and have 
requested a copy of the letter of explanation, which I [sic] forward upon receipt.
20 August 2012 - Store Firsts auditors send a letter to Carey letter from Store Firsts 
auditors to Carey dated 20 August 2012 which included the following: 
We confirm that the tax enquiry referred to in the Harley Scott group of companies accounts 
to 28 February 2011 do not include either Group First Limited nor Store First Limited and 
furthermore, neither Group First Limited nor Store First Limited are currently under tax 
enquiry
24 September 2012 - update to Carey from a Store First director.  
27 September 2012 - Store First provides Carey with a list of guaranteed rental and non-
guaranteed rental investors.  Following my provisional decision, I asked Carey why it 
requested this list. In reply, it said: 
Following the monitoring of investors that held Store First, all of which we understood had 
applied for the investment as per the marketing material, the marketing material provided for 
a Title in a Leasehold property in the form of storage units with a 6 year leaseback and a 
guaranteed rental income. Despite the marketing material not providing any other option, we 
found that only a small proportion of Store First investors were receiving the rental income 
as expected and therefore we requested a list of all of our investors rental arrangements.
27 September 2012  Carey lifted its suspension on accepting Store First. An internal Carey 
email of that date from Ms Hallett, sent to the Carey Group CEO and other senior members 
of staff, confirms this. The email from Ms Hallett included the following:
My view is we can start again? As long as we have put the requisite processes and controls 
in place to be on their case should we not receive what we are expecting, also do we need 
to make our member declarations clearer re what option the clients have selected eg 
guaranteed and non-guaranteed to ensure there is no come back on us at a later date that 
they did not realise
27 September 2012  A reply to the above email  from the CEO of the wider Carey Group, 
which simply said I agree (to the suggestion in Ms Hallets email). 
30 October 2012  Mr Ss investment in Store First facilitated by Carey.
5 April 2013  Careys technical review committee decides it will accept no further Store First 
investments. The note of this meeting refers to an FSA letter dated 11 January 2012 raising 
concerns about outstanding loans from Store First to Toby Whittaker. In its submissions to 
us, Carey says: 
CPUK [Carey] took this decision because, by April 2013, it had received a number of queries 
and concerns from its customers and other sources which CPUK considered had not been 
satisfactorily resolved by Store First. CPUK wanted to act quickly to protect its customers 
and therefore ceased administering investments into Store First. The minutes of the 5 April 2013 meeting say:
This investment was suspended 17.08.2012 because of concerns about the administration 
and system and controls of the investment provider. The meeting considered the further 
investment information provided in respect for this investment:
Best International Review;
Legal Opinions;
FSA Letter dated 11 January 2012;
Extracts from 2011 Audit;
The Meeting resolved that, based on the information provided, although there may not be a 
tax charge liability for this investment, other factors as undernoted have also been taken into 
consideration and it is not therefore considered prudent to proceed further.
The other factors as undernoted by Carey were: 
Lack of clarity in respect of the scheme being a UCIS and concerns raised by FSA (now 
FCA);
Loans outstanding to the director TS Whittaker
Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary in 
2017. On 30 April 2019 the court made an order to wind-up Store First Limited and three 
associated companies in the public interest by consent between those four companies and 
the Secretary of State. The Official Receiver was appointed as liquidator and has 
responsibility for dealing with the assets and liabilities of the four companies.
A company called Pay Store now manages the Store First sites and rents out the storage 
units, trading as Store First. The freeholds of each Store First site have been sold by the 
Official Receiver to a company called Store First Freeholds Limited. As a result of this, 
investors have been offered the opportunity to transfer their investment to this company, for 
nil consideration.
Mr Ss dealings with CL&P and Carey
Mr S had a personal pension. The cash value of this was switched into a SIPP with Carey, 
and invested in Store First, after Mr S had been contacted by CL&P. I have set out the 
events which took place during Mr Ss dealings with Carey in detail below. 
April 2012
Mr S signed a letter of authority which said:
I am writing in regards to my application for a SIPP with Carey Pensions. 
I hereby give you permission to liaise directly with CLP Brokers in respect of all matters 
regarding my pension arrangement. 
Please see their contact details below:
CLP Brokers0845 557 6746
enquiries@clpbrokers.com 
The letter is undated, but a date stamp shows it was received by Carey on 17 April 2012. 
Mr S signed an application form for a Carey SIPP on 11 April 2012. Carey sent Mr S a 
welcome letter on 18 April 2012. This letter confirmed the SIPP account number and that the 
establishment date of the SIPP was18 April 2012. So, it seems the application was received 
on 17 April 2012, along with the letter of authority, that both were sent to Carey by CL&P, 
and the SIPP was opened the following day. 
September 2012
Mr Ss personal pension provider sent £42,477.80 to Carey on 3 September 2012. 
October 2012
On 2 October 2012, Mr S signed the following in relation to the Store First investment: 
I, [Mr S] being the member of the above Scheme instruct Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd to 
Purchase a Leasehold Storage Unit(s) in the Store First investment through Harley-Scott 
Holdings Ltd for a consideration of £39,000, on my behalf for the above Scheme.
I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk 
and / or Speculative. 
As the Member of the Pension Scheme, I confirm that neither I nor any person connected to 
me is receiving a monetary or other inducement for transacting this investment. 
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this investment and 
have taken my own advice, including financial, investment and tax advice. 
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd act 
on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither Carey Pensions UK LLP nor Carey 
Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this 
investment.
I confirm that my business /occupation is not renting out storage units. 
Should any aspect of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide Taxable Moveable 
Property and / or any tax charges be deemed by HMRC to apply in future these will be paid 
directly from the fund or by me as the member of the Scheme.
I also understand and agree that, in the event of my demise, if Carey Pension Trustees UK 
Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be transferred to my 
beneficiaries through my estate and accordingly may be subject to any Inheritance Tax.
I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following solicitor to act on behalf of the Scheme:
[details of solicitor]
I confirm that I agree to [name of solicitor] fee of £400 + VAT for transacting this investment.
I confirm I am fully aware that additional costs will be incurred in this transaction including, 
but not limited to: £48 CHAPs Fee;
£8 Land Registry Search Fee;
Stamp Duty Land Tax - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
Any other taxes - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
I agree to Carey Pensions Fee of £500 + VAT, amounting for transacting this investment.
I agree that any and all fees and costs will be paid by my Scheme, or in the event of default, 
by me personally.
I agree to provide Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd with any further information and/or 
documentation they may require prior to completing the purchase of this investment.
I indemnify both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees Ltd against any and 
all liability arising from this investment.
In this decision I will refer to this document as the indemnity. 
On 30 October 2012, Carey wrote to Mr S to confirm £39,586 had been paid out of his SIPP 
for the Store First investment and associated costs. 
November 2012
Mr Ss Store First investment was made on 5 November 2012. 
In its response to my provisional decision, summarised below, Carey says there were a 
number of documents relevant to its dealings with Mr S - the SIPP application form, a letter 
of authority, its terms and conditions, a key features document, and the SIPP rules  not all 
of which were specifically mentioned in my provisional decision. For completeness, I confirm 
the file I have considered includes all of these documents, and I have given careful 
consideration to them, alongside the rest of the available evidence. 
Submissions made by Mr S 
Mr S says he understood he was receiving advice from CL&P and that he trusted it. He says 
he was told his pension would do better if he moved it to a SIPP with Carey and invested in 
Store First.  
We asked Mr S if he received a cash back incentive from CL&P after the investment had 
been made. Mr S has confirmed that he received £2,000. When we asked the CMC for      
Mr Ss recollections about this it told us: 
he was not actively looking to move his pension but received a cold call from CL&P in which 
he was told that his previous pension was doing nothing not increasing in value he felt 
persuaded by CL&P that just for transferring his previous pension to Carey Pensions UK he 
would be offered a welcome bonus of some sort and upon investing he would receive 
guaranteed returns of 12% per annum.
We were also told that Mr S remembers receiving an email from CL&P to say they were 
closing down after his transfer had completed. 
We recently asked Mr S for some further detail of his recollections. We asked the following 
questions, and received the replies quoted in italics: Were you interested in changing your pension at the time of being contacted by 
CL&P? Why? What attracted you to CL&P? What attracted you to the Store Pod 
investment? 
I was not interested in changing my pension over and had no plans to. I was cold called by 
CL&P who seemed to know some details about my current pension and advised me it wasnt 
doing anything where it was. I cant remember knowing what Store Pods were or hearing 
about them at the initial stages, but I remember being promised 12% guaranteed returns for 
a minimum 3 or 5 years.
What role did you think CL&P had in this transaction? 
I thought they were an investment company and who were the people who run the SIPP. 
However, I learned afterwards from CL&P that Careys were my SIPP provider and I felt 
reassured as I did research on Careys and found they were a legitimate company.
Did CL&P recommend any products to you? Can you recall what it said to you?
I cant remember the specifics of what was recommended to me, only that the 
recommended product was guaranteed to generate 12% returns over 3-5 years.
What was your understanding of the welcome bonus CL&P was offering? What did 
you think of this? 
I thought this was because I was investing so much money with them so it was a welcome 
bonus.
If you had been aware that the welcome bonus might have tax consequences, what 
would you have done? 
I never even thought about that as I only saw this as a welcome bonus so it never entered 
my head. If I had known there to be tax consequences, I wouldve asked about them, but I 
saw this as a welcome bonus, I never thought to do this. 
If Carey had told you that Mr Terence Wright, a director of CL&P, was the subject of 
an FSA alert, what would you have done? 
If I knew he was a con man I wouldve never transferred my pension, as I wouldve known 
then that what I was being promised was a scam.
Carey ended its relationship with CL&P in May 2012. If you had been made aware of 
this what would you have done? 
I would have asked a lot of questions why and would have expected Careys to be clear and 
honest with me. I would have also asked them if it would be safe for me to continue with the 
transfer.
What is your understanding of how the Store First investment works? 
When I finally found out what the store first investments pods were, I understood that 
Careys were managing them and I was responsible for the management costs. I understood 
there would be a charge for my pods but as I was guaranteed 12% returns for the first 3-5 
years, I understood why there was a fee, but the fee would be minimal compared to the 
amount I was guaranteed to receive in returns.Did you understand the risks associated with a high risk, speculative investment? 
What are they in your own words? 
I didnt know at the time and I still dont know now what they are.
What was your understanding of the risks associated with the Store First investment? 
Please explain your answer fully. 
For the first 3-5 years I was told Id have a guaranteed 12% on returns so I didnt think there 
was a risk. I believe after the 3-5 years were over I would be moved to something else.
What did you think Careys role was at the time? 
I originally thought it was all CL&P but then they advised me I would be a Careys client. I 
did my research on Careys and was happy that they looked like a legitimate company and I 
thought they were looking after the investment. 
Your SIPP was set up in April 2012 and your investment in Store First was made on 
5 November 2012. Were you aware that you were still free to choose whether or not 
to invest in Store First after the SIPP had been set up?
No
On 2 October 2012, you signed a Members Declaration & Indemnity (the indemnity) 
which included the following statement I am fully aware that this investment is an 
Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk and / or Speculative. Did you read 
the indemnity before signing it? What does this indemnity mean to you in your own 
words? 
I cant remember reading this document before signing it. After looking Careys up, I was 
happy they were a legitimate company and I trusted them. I do not understand what that 
statement means now, so would not have understood at the time.
Careys submissions
In its submission to us Carey said, in summary: 
Carey does not (and is not permitted to) provide any advice to clients in relation to 
the establishment of a SIPP, transfers in or the underlying investments, nor does it 
comment in any way on the suitability of a SIPP, the transfers in and investments for 
an individuals circumstances. It did not advise, nor purport to advise, Mr S.
Carey acts as the administrator only of Mr Ss SIPP. Mr S opened his SIPP and went 
on to invest on an execution only (i.e. non-advised) basis and this was made very 
clear in communications with him, the documentation issued to him, and the 
paperwork he read, signed and agreed to. As an execution only business, Carey 
would have been in breach of COBS 11.2.19 had it not followed the signed 
instructions given to it by Mr S.
CL&P was a non-regulated introducer and as such, it was never suggested to Mr S 
by Carey that CL&P was a financial adviser or was authorised to provide advice. Mr 
S was therefore categorised as a direct client of Carey.
Carey did not suggest or recommend the Store First investment to Mr S. It is not 
responsible for the performance or current market value of his storage units.Carey acted on Mr Ss instructions to establish the SIPP, request the transfers in and 
specifically to make the investments on his behalf into Store First, in the amounts 
instructed by him.
Carey carried out an internal investment review and due diligence on Store First and 
concluded that these investments were suitable to be held within a UK pension 
scheme.
Carey undertook due diligence on CL&P and this due diligence did not reveal any 
reason why Carey should not accept introductions from CL&P, at the time of Mr Ss 
investment.
We asked Carey to provide us with some further information about its relationship with 
CL&P. Its response included the following general points; 
551 clients were introduced to Carey via CL&P. 466 clients had been introduced by 
the time CL&P signed the Terms of Business with Carey on 20 March 2012.
Carey first became aware of the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives by 
CL&P in late November 2011. This was following the AMPS committee issuing an 
alert that they had received reports from a number of pension providers about 
inducements being paid to scheme members without the knowledge of the pension 
provider, and the member being told to hide the payment. No details were given 
about the parties involved. With this in mind, and following a potential new member 
introduced by CL&P asking Carey when they would receive their cash, Carey held an 
urgent telephone conference with representatives from CL&P (the notes of this call 
are quoted above). 
Carey thinks it is likely that the lack of response to its request for copies of the 
passports of the directors of CL&P and accounts was a factor in its decision to 
terminate its relationship with CL&P.
CL&P only introduced the clients to Carey at inception, it was not an ongoing service 
agent and, as such, the relationship was always between Carey and the members 
from establishment of the SIPPs, as its direct clients. It was the clients' decision to 
select CL&P as their introducer.
There were numerous introducers in the market and regulated advisers who were
introducing/advising clients regarding the Store First Investment and whose clients sought 
SIPP services from Carey and other SIPP administrators. Carey had no reason to suspect 
that because one of these - CL&P - had been offering cash inducements that there might be 
any particular issue or additional risks for clients in respect of the underlying investment.
The member declaration was very clear regarding what the investments were and, 
crucially, that they were high risk.
In relation to its due diligence on introducers Carey highlights that it made changes following 
the regulators Thematic Review in September 2009 and adherence to treating its customers 
fairly and has told us:
In the early days CPUK [Carey] accepted execution only and advised business and there 
was no specific requirement for non regulated introducers. In late 2011 we reviewed our 
internal processes and as good practice implemented a combined Non Regulated Introducer 
Profile and Terms of Business. The due diligence process was improved, with company checks, accounts and affiliated companies also being reviewed and checks against 
sanctions lists. 
The non regulated introducer would sign the profile which confirmed that they had read and 
agreed to the Terms of Business. There is reference to this improvement in our process in 
the FSA letter dated 29 September 2011, following a visit to CPUK
The investigators view 
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He said, in 
summary: 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses and the regulatory publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles were relevant considerations here. 
Carey carried out significant due diligence, but it took a piecemeal approach, and in 
the meantime accepted business from CL&P. Had it carried out all its due diligence 
at the outset, it ought to have concluded it should not accept business from CL&P at 
all. 
Carey should have conducted background checks on the directors of CL&P at the 
outset, rather than on two members of CL&Ps staff. Had Carey checked the 
directors at the outset it would have discovered that Terence Wright was subject to a 
warning on the FSAs website. 
Careys concerns were such that it actually stopped doing business with CL&P once 
it became aware of the warnings and incentives issue. Had it completed the relevant 
checks before accepting business from CL&P it ought to have concluded that it 
shouldnt enter into a relationship with it.
It is not clear why Carey did not ask for accounts and identification documents at the 
outset, but only did this after the relationship had been ongoing for a number of 
months. The fact that CL&P failed to provide this information, despite reminders, was 
cause for concern. Had Carey asked at the outset and CL&P had failed to provide 
them, it should not have entered into a relationship with CL&P. 
The wording of the FSA warning about Terence Wright changed sometime between 
2010 and 2013. However, the aim of the warning was clearly to highlight that this was 
an individual who parties ought to be wary of conducting business with, and that 
Terence Wright was targeting UK customers.
Carey should have been concerned the agreement with CL&P signed in March 2012 
wasnt signed by the directors of CL&P. 
Carey was concerned CL&P was offering cash back incentives to consumers in 
December 2011. And ultimately, Careys concerns about CL&P were such that by 25 
May 2012 it stopped doing business with CL&P completely.
In this case Mr S has said that he received a payment of £2,000 from CL&P, when 
completing the transfer and investment. He understood it to be for transferring his 
pension. Given Mr Ss level of experience in pensions and investments, he did not 
think that this would, necessarily, have led him to think that something was wrong.
And the fact remains that Carey had been aware that incentives were being offered by CL&P before it passed Mr Ss money for investment. This ought to have raised 
serious questions about the conduct of CL&P and the quality of the business it was 
bringing about. If CL&P was offering consumers incentives that called into question 
its integrity.
Carey put some reliance on the indemnity signed by Mr S. But it should not have 
accepted his application at all, so should not have required him to sign any 
documents. And asking Mr S to sign the indemnity did not mean it was fair and 
reasonable to proceed with Mr Ss investment instructions. 
Careys response to the investigators view 
Carey did not accept the view. It said, in summary: 
In assessing the complaint, we must take into account the overarching context of the 
relationship that Carey has with its customers, including Mr S, being one of a self-
invested personal pension scheme in which Carey acts on a strictly execution 
only/non-advised basis and is member-directed throughout. Carey is not permitted to, 
and does not, provide advice or otherwise comment on the suitability of investments 
or any other aspect of a customers SIPP. Carey expressly states that all customers 
should seek independent financial advice from an adviser who is regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
The fundamental consideration that underpins the view is the contention that had 
Carey identified that Mr Terence Wright was on the FSAs warning list and informed 
Mr S of this, then it should not have accepted business from CL&P, or Mr S would 
not have proceeded with the investment. 
There is a material difference between a warning detailing that you should not deal 
with a particular individual and a notice informing you that an individual is not a 
regulated individual and that the ombudsman service and FSCS would not be 
available to you if you chose to deal with such individual. The wording in the FCAs 
notice published on 15 October 2010, which was available to Carey at the time it 
undertook its due diligence on CL&P, does not include any such warning stating that 
Terence (Terry) Wright is an individual to avoid or be wary of; the Notice amounts 
simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on regulated 
activities, a fact of which Carey was well aware and upon which basis it accepted 
referrals from CL&P. Carey reasonably considered at all times that CL&P was an 
unregulated introducer which was not providing advice. 
There is nothing in the notice published on 15 October 2010 to indicate that Terence 
(Terry) Wright is an individual to avoid as such, it is not fair or reasonable to state 
that on the basis of a notice that simply informs that Terence (Terry) Wright is not 
regulated by the FCA, that Carey should not have accepted this business. 
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear warning including an 
express comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would 
have put Carey on notice to stop accepting business from Mr Wright, is irrelevant in 
this case because Carey had already severed its Terms of Business some 18 
months before the warning in 2013 regarding Mr Wright was published. 
The fact that the FSA later made express comment as to Mr Wright's conduct, but did 
not make any comment of a similar nature in the earlier wording plainly indicates that 
at the time that Carey accepted business from CL&P, the FSA did not believe 
Mr Wright to have been providing financial services or products without authorisation at that time, nor consider it necessary to express any concerns in this regard.
If the FSA did not consider there to be any cause for concern at the relevant time and
there was no way through reasonable due diligence checks for Carey to establish any cause 
for concern, then plainly it is not fair or reasonable to have expected Carey to have rejected 
business from CL&P on this basis.
COBS 11.2.19R, which deals with execution only business and was in force at the 
relevant time, stated as follows:
"Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute the order 
following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps to obtain the best 
possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an order, or a specific aspect of an 
order, following specific instructions from the client relating to the order or the specific aspect 
of the order."
The significance of this rule to an execution only business, such as Carey, cannot be 
overstated. Carey would have been in breach of COBS if it had not executed Mr S's 
specific instructions to make the investment. 
There is no rule, guidance, or requirement that a regulated business is prohibited or 
encouraged not to do business with an entity which is the subject of an FSA/FCA 
warning, solely by virtue of the fact that it is subject to that warning. 
The investigators view amounts to a requirement for Carey to have refused business 
from a business associated with an individual on the basis that it should have been 
"wary of conducting regulated business with" him, despite the FSA/FCA not having 
made such a comment, prohibiting businesses from dealing with Mr Wright, or having 
taken any action against him. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in October 2020. I provisionally concluded it was fair and 
reasonable to say Carey should not have accepted Mr Ss application from CL&P and, failing 
that, it should not have accepted his request to invest in Store First made in October 2012.
My provisional findings are attached to the decision, and form part of it, and the key points 
are summarised in my findings below  so I will not repeat them here. 
Careys response to my provisional decision
Carey did not accept my provisional decision. I set out below a summary of what I consider 
to be the main points Carey made in its response. The list is not exhaustive. However, 
before making this decision, I carefully considered Careys response in full.
The first section of Careys response dealt with what it describes as the scope of its duty. 
This focussed on the relevant considerations I identified in my provisional decision and my 
finding on what, acting fairly and reasonably, Carey ought to have done by way of due 
diligence on CL&P and Store First, by reference to a number of court cases, the contract 
between Carey and Mr S and (in its view) my departure from the law. On these points, Carey 
said, in summary: The decision cites R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority and 
R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service but 
largely ignores the decision in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly 
Carey Pensions UK LLP), notwithstanding that Carey was also the defendant in 
Adams and that the facts of that case were effectively identical to those in the 
present complaint.
The decision also fails to explain why it reaches a different conclusion to that reached 
by the High Court in Adams v Carey. 
The decision seeks to impose on Carey a duty of due diligence, in particular a duty to 
decide whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. 
However, my construction of the Principles is flawed, it is neither fair nor reasonable 
to determine Mr Ss complaint by reference to the regulatory publications mentioned, 
and Carey was not under the duty of due diligence that the decision seeks to impose. 
A contravention of the Principles cannot in itself give rise to any cause of action at 
law. 
As made clear in Adams at [paragraph 163], reports, guidance and correspondence 
issued after the events at issue cannot be applied to Careys conduct at the time. It 
follows that the 2012 thematic review, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear 
CEO letter are of no relevance. In any event, regulatory publications of the type I 
refer to cannot found a claim for compensation in themselves and do not assist in 
construction of the Principles.
Regulatory publications cannot alter the meaning of, or the scope of the obligations 
imposed by, the Principles (Adams paragraph 162). Thus, if there was no obligation 
imposed on Carey by the Principles to consider and act on the suitability of the SIPP 
or the underlying investment, the publications to which the decision refers cannot 
impose such a duty.
The 2009 thematic review does not, in fact, provide guidance in any meaningful 
sense and does not claim to do so, and it is certainly not statutory guidance. The 
2009 thematic review in fact does little more than highlight some examples of 
measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from examples of good 
practice that [the FSA] observed. Moreover, many of the matters which the thematic 
review invites firms to consider are plainly directed at firms providing advisory 
services, not firms, such as Carey, providing execution-only services. 
Even if the 2009 thematic review had been statutory guidance made under FSMA 
s.139A , the breach of such statutory guidance would not give rise to a claim for 
damages under FSMA s.138D. 
Indeed, the FCAs Enforcement Guide deals with the status of statutory guidance as 
follows: Guidance is not binding on those to whom the FCAs rules apply. Nor are 
the variety of materials (such as case studies showing good or bad practice, FCA 
speeches and generic letters written by the FCA to Chief Executives in particular 
sectors) published to support the rules and guidance in the Handbook. Rather, such 
materials are intended to illustrate ways (but not the only ways) in which a person 
can comply with the relevant rules. 
In light of the matters outlined above, it is submitted that it would be neither fair nor 
reasonable for me to determine Mr Ss complaint by reference to the FCA 
publications referred to in the decision and, indeed, that to do so would only exacerbate the problem referred to in paragraph 73 of R (on the application of Aviva 
Life and Pensions (UK) Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2017].
The High Court held in Adams that the duties imposed by the COBS Rules cannot all 
apply to all firms in all circumstances. 
Contrary to COBS, however, my decision seeks to impose on Carey a duty of due 
diligence that it does not in fact owe. It seeks, in effect, to override COBS careful 
allocation of duties between different types of firm conducting different types of 
business, and to impose duties on Carey in addition to those provided for under 
COBS, by means of a generalised appeal to the Principles. 
If under the Principles Carey really had had the obligations of due diligence that are 
set out in the decision, and had acted in accordance with them, it would have been 
required to engage in the activity of advising on investments, and so place itself in 
contravention of its regulatory permissions. Hence the importance of the contractual 
documentation governing the arrangements between the parties considered below.
However, the very basis on which I propose that Carey should have rejected Mr Ss 
application and request is that it should have concluded that the investment was in 
fact unsuitable, and notified Mr S accordingly.
The relationships between Carey, Mr S, CL&P and Store First are the same as in 
Adams; and the judge in Adams found that at all material times [Carey] was clear 
about the limits of its role, the role of CLP and the role of the investor. Further, it 
seems to me that [Carey] put in place appropriate documentation to ensure that each 
of the three knew and understood the limits of their role in the overall process. 
In light of these findings, the judge in Adams went on to hold:
oThat in order to identify the extent of the regulatory duties imposed on Carey, 
one has to identify the relevant factual context and that the key fact in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their 
roles in the transaction [ paragraph 148];
oThat there is a very plain inconsistency between the contract which was 
entered into between it and the claimant and the duties [under COBS 2.1.1R] 
which the claimant now suggests that the defendant owed to him [153];
oThat there was [no] duty on [Carey] to consider the suitability of 
appropriateness of a SIPP or the underlying investment. The contract 
between [the parties] makes that clear [157]; and
oThat a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of 
the client, who is to take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be 
construed as meaning that the terms of the contract should be overlooked, 
that the client is not to be treated as able to reach and take responsibility for 
his own decisions and that his instructions are not to be followed [154].
It is also notable that in Adams the FCA agreed that the function of a firm, as 
determined by its contract with an investor, would govern what it would be required to 
do in order to comply with its duties under the FCA Handbook. 
I appear to have ignored, or to have placed insufficient weight on, the fundamental 
fact of the parties contractual arrangements, and on the clear demarcation of roles and responsibilities thereunder, and consequently to have constructed due diligence 
obligations for Carey to which it was not in fact subject. 
The indemnity that Mr S signed was only one of several documents that constituted 
the contract between the parties. The other documents comprise: the SIPP 
application form, a letter of authority, Careys terms and conditions, a key features 
document, and the SIPP rules. The relevant provisions of these documents all made 
clear that Carey was acting on an execution-only basis. Notwithstanding their 
importance, the PD makes no reference to these documents whatsoever.
Further, in suggesting that, notwithstanding the clear terms of the relevant 
contractual arrangements, Carey owed obligations of due diligence under the 
Principles, the reasoning of the decision runs wholly contrary to that in Adams, in 
which, as noted above, it was held that Careys duties under the regulatory regime 
fall to be construed in light of its contractual arrangements. However, the decision 
only acknowledges this divergence in passing, and only advances two brief 
justifications for it, both of which are misconceived.
The decision refers to paragraph 154 of Adams. The clear import of the judges 
conclusion is sought to be avoided through the finding that, regardless of the relevant 
contractual arrangements, Carey should have concluded that Store First was an 
inappropriate investment and refused to accept Mr Ss application. Again, however, 
this is to misapprehend the relationship between the Principles and Careys 
contractual arrangements with Mr S. The latter, as set out in Adams, reflect the legal 
basis upon which Carey  like other similar firms  conducted its business: the 
concept of execution-only services is well known in the financial services context, as 
is reflected in the case law (see Adams paragraph 136), one of the reasons clients 
seek the services of execution-only SIPP providers being that they do not wish to pay 
the higher charges of advisory pension providers. To seek to use the Principles, 
notwithstanding this factual context, to impose on Carey the duties of due diligence 
set out in the decision, is both artificial and illegitimate.
The decision refers to the judges finding in Adams that the claimant would have 
proceeded with his application in any event, on which ground the decision is 
purportedly distinguished. However, the claimants motivation in Adams was only a 
secondary basis on which the judge reached his decision, and one which in any 
event went to the question of causation rather than the scope of Careys duties: 
Adams [paragraph 160]. It does not and cannot mean that the findings in Adams as 
to the effect of the contractual arrangements between the parties is somehow 
irrelevant or inapplicable to Mr Ss complaint; on the contrary, these arrangements 
are of fundamental importance.
Mr S says, and I appear to have accepted, that he does not think he read the wording 
of Careys indemnity, and that he would not have understood it even if he had. That 
is not good enough.
It is well established that a reasonable person is expected to read his 
correspondence: Webster v Cooper & Burnett [2000]. Consistently with this principle, 
the judge in Adams held that the claimant had to take responsibility for his actions in 
contracting with Carey. So must Mr S here. If Mr S did not in fact trouble himself to 
read the wording of the contractual documentation that he signed (and, as submitted 
below, absent oral exploration of Mr Ss evidence, this is not accepted by Carey), that 
cannot be laid at Careys door. Contrary to the requirements laid down in R (on the 
application of Aviva Life and Pensions (UK) Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service, I 
fail to explain the decisions divergence in this regard from both Webster and Adams; indeed, the former case is not even cited.
The indemnity was drafted in plain, simple English. There was no uncertainty as to its 
meaning, and Mr S has no basis for suggesting that, if he had read it, he would not 
have understood it.
I should also have regard to the length of time between Mr Ss first communication 
with Carey in April 2012 and his instruction to Carey to proceed with his investment in 
October 2012. Those six months allowed him ample time to read and digest all 
relevant documentation, to carry out any research he wished and to query anything if 
he had concerns. He could have changed his mind had he wished. But he did not.
On the contrary, Mr Ss own evidence is that he conducted such research as he 
considered necessary before proceeding with his investment, demonstrating that, in 
accordance with the terms of his contract with Carey, he understood that the 
investment was his own decision, and that he took responsibility for it.
It follows that, in construing the ambit and application of the Principles, there is no 
reason not to take the parties contractual arrangements into account; on the 
contrary, and in accordance with Adams, they must be. Had I had proper regard to 
them, I should and would have found that Careys duties to Mr S extended no further 
than those owed to the claimant in Adams and, accordingly, that it is neither 
reasonable nor fair for Carey to pay Mr S compensation.
At Adams paragraph 149 the judge held that, in construing Careys regulatory 
obligations, regard should be had to FSMA s.5(2)(d): I also view the consumer 
protection objective as relevant in ascertaining the duty [imposed on Carey], even 
though the section of FSMA which contains it is aimed at the FCA itself. The 
provision requires the FCA, in securing an appropriate degree of protection for 
consumers, to have regard to, among other things, the general principle that 
consumers should take responsibility for their decisions. In this case those decisions, 
as between the claimant and the defendant, are set out in the documents which 
comprise the contract between them.
The FCA did not disagree with this approach. Nor is there anything unusual about the 
FCAs stance in this regard: PRIN 1.1.2G states that, The Principles are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
They reflect the statutory objectives. Those statutory objectives include the 
consumer protection objective: see Kerrigan v Elevate Credit International Limited at 
[30]-[31].
However, the decision fails to have regard to FSMA s.5(2)(d), and to the authority of 
Adams and Kerrigan in this respect, and offers no justification for this failure.
The conclusion reached in the decision as to the scope of Careys duties is the same 
as the position advanced by the claimant in Adams, as summarised by the judge at 
paragraph 140. As noted above, however, the judge unequivocally found against    
Mr Adams. The decision offers no explanation for its departure from this clear 
authority, from the general regulatory principle enshrined by FSMA s.5(2)(d), and 
indeed from the fundamental principle of freedom of contract. It enables Mr S to 
recover against Carey for losses flowing from non-contractual obligations which were 
utterly inconsistent with, and indeed contrary to, the express obligations in the 
parties contractual arrangements. That can be neither fair nor reasonable.
Careys response then goes on to address the findings I made in relation to the due diligence Carey carried out, as follows (in summary): 
CL&P and the cashback paid to Mr S
No breach can arise on Careys part simply by virtue of its dealing with unregulated 
introducers. The regulatory regime has never prohibited unregulated introducers from 
connecting clients with SIPP providers, and neither the FSA nor the FCA have ever 
sought to prohibit SIPP providers from accepting business by this route. This was 
made very clear in Adams at paragraphs 23, 78 and 95. Insofar as this has enabled 
low quality underlying investments to be placed within execution-only SIPPs, that is 
the consequence of the regulatory regime. It would be unfair and unreasonable to 
place the liability for losses flowing from such investments on the execution-only 
SIPP provider. That, however, is precisely what the decision seeks to do.
Given the proper scope of Careys regulatory duties, as established in Adams and as 
considered above, there can also be no breach on Careys part as a result of its 
dealings with CL&P: in light of his conclusions on the scope of Careys duties, the 
judge in Adams found that adequate due diligence had been carried out (see 
paragraphs 16 and 155).
The decision concludes that Carey should have checked the FSA notice published 
on 15 October 2010 regarding Terry Wright, one of CL&Ps directors and that, had it 
done so, this would have alerted them to likely problems with CL&P. However: the 
FSA notice was not entered onto World Check (the service used by Carey) until 24 
October 2011, i.e. after Carey had carried out its checks on CL&Ps other 
representatives and after it had started accepting business from CL&P. Even if Carey 
had at this stage run a check in respect of Mr Wright, therefore, it would not have 
identified the notice in question. Carey did not routinely check the FSAs list of 
unauthorised firms and individuals, nor was it under any obligation to do so.
Moreover, and in any event, in the form in which it had been published in 2010, the 
notice stated only that Mr Wright was not regulated by the FSA and referred only to a 
business named Cash In Your Pension. There was no contradiction between the 
FSA notice and any statement provided by Mr Wright that he was not subject to any 
FSA action or censure. Even if, therefore, Careys search of World Check had 
revealed the FSA notice, there is no reason this would necessarily have led Carey to 
conclude at the time that it should not enter into business with CL&P.
The decision says that CLPs promises to clients of cashback payments should have 
put them on notice. However, Carey was not aware until May 2012 that these 
payments were being offered as cash incentives (at which point it terminated the 
relationship with CLP), its understanding being that they were rental income 
payments into clients SIPPs.
There is no reason Carey should have known that Mr S had been promised or 
received any cash inducement. He confirmed in his member declaration that he had 
not.
While cash inducements contravene HMRC rules, they have no bearing on the 
suitability or otherwise of the investment at issue  and it is the failed investment that 
is the subject of Mr Ss complaint. He is not complaining that he has suffered tax 
charges.
Indeed, there is nothing unlawful about paying cash back to an investor. It is just, at 
worst, potentially tax inefficient. The judge in Adams did not consider that CL&Ps promise of a cash inducement to Mr Adams rendered Carey in breach of any 
regulatory duty. I have again failed to explain why I reached a different view.
The decision says Carey should have met its own standards and checked CL&Ps 
accounts before accepting business from it. However, as the decision notes, the 
standards in question were only set in late 2011. Shortly thereafter, in March 2012, 
Carey duly requested accounts from CL&P and, when they were not forthcoming, in 
May 2012 terminated the relationship.
By the time of the termination, the involvement of CL&P in Mr Ss transaction with 
Carey had ceased. It is accordingly submitted that there was nothing unreasonable 
about Careys conduct in this regard.
The decision notes that Carey severed its relationship with CLP in May 2012 and 
finds that it should have communicated this to Mr S. However, there is no reason the 
issues that were discovered with CL&P should have put Carey on notice that there 
was any issue with the underlying investment with Store First. Carey dealt with 
numerous introducers and regulated advisers who were introducing/advising clients 
in relation to Store First. It had no reason to suspect that, just because there were 
issues with CL&P, which Carey only belatedly discovered, there might be any 
particular issue or risks for clients in respect of the underlying investment itself.
Moreover, Carey did not contact Mr S regarding the severance of its relationship with 
CL&P because CL&P were introducers only and, in accordance with the contract 
between the parties, Careys relationship with Mr S was direct.
Store First 
Given the proper scope of Careys regulatory duties, as established in Adams, there 
can be no breach on Careys part as a result of its dealings with Store First.
No breach arises on Careys part simply by virtue of Store Firsts status as a high-risk 
investment. As the judge found in Adams (at paragraphs 158 to 159), the fact that 
Store First was high risk did not make it manifestly unsuitable. The suitability of a 
high-risk investment depends on the particular financial circumstances of the 
particular customer and his or her attitude to risk: and Carey did not know Mr Ss 
financial position or his attitude to risk and, as an execution-only SIPP provider, was 
under no regulatory obligation to ascertain these details. Thus, even if it was an 
unsuitable investment for Mr S, that was not manifest or obvious to Carey.
Indeed, it appears that the FSA at the time acknowledged this: in Adams (at 
paragraph 500 the judge referred to an internal Carey email of 20 May 2012, which 
noted Store Firsts statement that they had confirmed they have been liaising with 
FSA regarding the investment and explaining to FSA the procedure and structure 
and FSA have not raised any concerns. Although the decision refers to this email, it 
wholly ignores this statement.
Moreover, the judge in Adams found that Carey had carried out adequate due 
diligence on Store First. Carey carried out such due diligence as was required to 
ensure the investment met the applicable HMRC criteria, which is all Carey was 
required to do.
Moreover, and irrespective of the true scope of Careys duty, the criticisms made in 
the PD of Careys due diligence on Store First are unfounded.Contrary to the findings reached in the decision, there is nothing in the company 
searches or internet research carried out by Carey, in the report it obtained from 
Enhanced Support Solutions or in the marketing material that Store First provided 
that, considered objectively, should have suggested any problem with Store First. 
The investment provided investors with the opportunity to own affordable commercial 
property, and to receive regular rental income. My findings are coloured by hindsight, 
in particular in that they read the SSA report of May 2014 back into the situation in 
2012. However, the SSA report emphasises that the analysis and opinions set out in 
this Note constitutes a judgment as of the date of the Note.
Moreover, the SSA is a specialist storage industry association and its note is based 
on a report produced by Deloitte. It is entirely unrealistic to expect Carey, as a SIPP 
operator and administrator, to have had an equivalent level of knowledge and 
expertise to that possessed by SSA and Deloitte (let alone to have had this over two 
years before the SSA report was issued).
If, contrary to the above, Carey had been in possession of such knowledge and 
expertise, had engaged in the level of analysis of Store First demonstrated by the 
SSA report, and had communicated the same to its clients, it would clearly have 
exceeded its regulatory permissions.
As noted in the decision, Carey suspended investments in Store First in August 
2012. This was a precautionary step in response to notification Carey had received of 
a tax investigation into Harley Scott Holdings, and Carey took this step on the basis 
that, although a separate entity from Store First, Harley Scott Holdings was also 
owned by the owner of Store First, Toby Whittaker. Having issued the suspension, 
Carey made enquiries of Store Firsts auditors who confirmed that Store First was not 
subject to any tax investigation. Carey also requested confirmation from Store First 
as to which of its investors were being paid a guaranteed income. In light of the 
responses received from Store First and its auditors, Carey lifted the suspension in 
October 2012. There was, accordingly, no reason for Carey not to proceed with      
Mr Ss investment in Store First on 30 October 2012.
Finally, Careys response addresses my findings on fair compensation, as follows (in 
summary): 
Calculating compensation 
The correct approach to quantifying compensation in cases of the present kind was 
set out in Adams at paragraph 175, by reference to the decision in Rubenstein v 
HSBC Bank plc. The measure of compensation should be assessed according to 
usual common law principles for breach of contract or tort. The judge in Adams 
accordingly found that the claimant, had he been entitled to damages (which he was 
not), would have been entitled to the difference between the value, at the 
appropriate point, of the cash fund which he transferred and value of the leases as 
ascertained by reference to the expert evidence, and interest, emphasising that: 
(i) the assessment would be undertaken as if this had been a claim for damages for 
negligent professional advice (from a valuer, solicitor or other advisor prior to entry 
into a property transaction) which a client relied on in making an investment decision 
in real property; and (ii) accordingly, there is no basis for calculating the award as if 
it were in some way to reflect an intended guarantee of the investment.
By contrast, the decision proposes that Carey should calculate and pay 
compensation to Mr S on the basis of the difference between the likely value of [his] 
pension as at the date of the decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP and the transfer value of the SIPP at the date of the decision 
(assuming the Store First investment to have no value but taking into account the 
cash back payment that Mr S received).
In quantifying the loss of Mr Ss investment by reference to the likely current value of 
his pension had he not transferred it, instead of as an investment in real property (on 
the basis of expert evidence as to the value of the Store First leases, and taking no 
account of hypothetical investment returns), the decisions proposed method runs 
directly contrary to that set out in Rubenstein and Adams. No explanation or 
justification for this difference in approach is offered.
Hearing request 
In its reply to my provisional decision, Carey also made a request for a hearing. I have 
issued a response to that request separately. 
The CMCs response to my provisional decision
In reply to my provisional decision the CMC representing Mr S simply said he accepted the 
decision  it made no comments on my provisional findings. 
Further information provided by Carey
In light of Careys submissions on its suspension of Store First in August 2012, we asked it 
to provide copies of all correspondence it had with Store First and/or its auditors, and copies 
of any internal file notes or meeting notes or emails on the subject. And to explain why it 
specifically asked about which Store First investors were being paid a guaranteed income. 
The further evidence and explanation it provided covered the events which took place 
between 15 August 2012 and 27 September 2012. I have included the full detail of this in my 
above summary of the actions taken by Carey in relation to the Store First investment. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would again like to assure both parties that I've looked at all of their submissions with care. 
In this decision I have again concentrated on the key arguments and evidence that are 
material to my determination of the complaint.
In reconsidering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. Having done so, I have not been persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings as to what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 3 
and 6 which say:Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach 
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to 
the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were required 
to be taken into account. 
Ive reconsidered whether Adams v Carey means that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And, I remain of the view that it doesnt. In Adams v Carey, 
HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was 
because the specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley
Burke was asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants 
case before me. So, Adams v Carey says nothing about the application of the FCAs 
Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.  
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I also note Carey 
does not say the Principles are not relevant at all. Instead it disagrees with my view of what 
they meant in practice  a point I return to below. 
Carey has pointed out a contravention of the Principles cannot in itself give rise to any cause 
of action at law. That may be true. However, I am dealing with a complaint, not a cause of 
action, and what I am seeking to identify here is what is relevant to my consideration of what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons I have given, I 
remain satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into 
account when deciding this complaint.
Regulatory publications 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have again considered the relevance of these publications. I will first again set out material 
parts of the publications (although I have considered them in their entirety). 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves 
and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable).Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc).
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client for 
SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility 
to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc).
In its response to my provisional decision Carey says the 2009 thematic review is not 
statutory guidance. That is a point I acknowledged in my provisional decision. I again 
acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) are not 
formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I remain of the view the 
fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal (i.e. statutory) guidance 
does not mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
Carey says the 2009 thematic review does not provide guidance in any meaningful sense, 
does not claim to do so, and does not assist in the construction (I assume by this it means 
construing, interpreting, or explaining) of the Principles. I do not agree. At its introduction the 
report says:
In this report, we describe the findings of this thematic review, and make clear what
we expect of SIPP operator firms in the areas we reviewed. It also provides examples of 
good practices we found.
And, as mentioned above, the report then goes on to provide .examples of measures that 
SIPP operators could consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms
The report is therefore a reminder that the Principles apply and gives an indication of the 
kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and 
produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The report set out the regulators 
expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing and therefore indicates what I consider 
amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time. So I remain satisfied it is relevant and 
therefore appropriate to take it into account.
In its response to my provisional decision, when making its points about the regulatory 
publications, Carey has referred to Aviva Life and Pensions (UK) Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service. However, whilst the judge in that case made some observations about 
the application of our statutory remit, that remit remains unchanged. And, as noted above, in 
considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case, Im required to 
take into account (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Carey also says many of the matters which the report invites firms to consider are plainly 
directed at firms providing advisory services, not firms, such as it, providing execution-only 
services. It has not specified which parts of the report it thinks are plainly directed at firms 
providing advisory services. But, again, I do not agree. I think the report is also directed at 
firms like Carey acting purely as SIPP operators. The report is very clear that SIPP 
operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the 
Principles for Businesses. And the good practice examples quoted above are presaged by 
the We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice . 
I also remain satisfied that Carey, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought 
the 2009 thematic review report was relevant and that it set out examples of good industry 
practice.  The summary of Careys approach to introducer due diligence (which Ive 
summarised above), had the title The changes CPUK [Carey] introduced following the 
Thematic Review in September 2009 and adherence to TCF and Appropriateness. Given 
the importance Carey attached to the 2009 report at the time, it is surprising it now argues it 
is not a relevant consideration to what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. 
The remainder of the publications also provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice at the relevant time. I therefore remain satisfied it is appropriate to take 
them into account too  although it is the 2009 report which is clearly of the most relevance 
to this complaint.
However, I do not think the fact that the later publications (i.e. those other than the 2009 
Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of this complaint mean 
that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice at the time 
of the relevant events.
It is clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the Dear CEO letter published 
in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended 
good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators 
comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the standards shaped 
what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance 
with those Principles. I note Careys point that the judge in the Adams case did not consider 
the 2012 thematic review, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of 
relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that those 
publications are irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I am required to take into account good industry practice at 
the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the relevant time. 
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances. 
To be clear, as I confirmed in my provisional decision, I do not say the Principles or the 
publications obliged Carey to ensure the investment in Store First was suitable for Mr S. It is 
accepted Carey was not required to give advice to Mr S, and could not give advice. And I 
accept the publications do not alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they 
are evidence of what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time, 
which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. As Carey notes from the 
FCAs Enforcement Guide, publications of this type illustrate ways (but not the only ways) in 
which a person can comply with the relevant rules. And so it is fair and reasonable for me to 
take them into account when deciding this complaint. 
It also may be true that the publications, like the Principles, are not a basis on which legal 
action can be taken.  But, as noted above, I am dealing with a complaint, not a cause of 
action, and what I am seeking to identify here is what is relevant to my consideration of what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I would also add, that even if I agreed with Carey that any publications or guidance that post-
dated the events subject of this complaint do not help to clarify the type of good industry 
practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that does not alter my view on what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. That is because I find that the 2009 
report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what Carey could and 
should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant time 
before accepting any introduction from CL&P and/or allowing the Store First investment into 
the SIPP. 
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Carey complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed 
above to provide an indication of what Carey could have done to comply with its regulatory 
obligations. 
What did Careys obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I remain 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. I do 
not agree with Careys assertion, in its response to my provisional decision, that it could not 
reject an introduction or an application to make a particular investment without contravening 
its regulatory permissions by giving investment advice.  This seems completely at odds with 
how it acted in practice. Careys response seems to ignore the fact that on 25 May 2012 
Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P with immediate effect and let it know that it could 
no longer accept business from it. This was because despite previous assurances from 
CL&P to the contrary, Carey became aware that customers had been offered cash 
inducements. Similarly, on 5 April 2013, Careys technical review committee decided to 
accept no further Store First investments because it had received a number of queries and 
concerns from its customers and other sources which had not been satisfactorily resolved 
and it acted in order to protect its customers. Although, I consider if Carey had undertaken 
an appropriate level of due diligence these actions should have been taken much earlier, it 
appears that in finally taking the necessary steps to protect its customers, Carey did not 
consider it was contravening its regulatory permissions by giving investment advice - and nor 
do I. This response also seems contrary to the evidence of Careys own understanding of its 
obligations and good practice at the time. 
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a 
particular introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As mentioned in my provisional decision, Carey told us In late 2011.. The due diligence 
process was improved, with company checks, accounts and affiliated companies also being 
reviewed and checks against sanctions lists.  And on the non-regulated introducer profile, 
Carey stated, As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due 
diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out.
So, long before the time of Mr Ss application in April 2012, Carey understood and accepted 
its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on CL&P, to inform 
a decision on whether to accept an introduction of business from CL&P. Carey had set a 
standard for its introducer due diligence which it thought was consistent with good (or best) 
practice at the relevant time and that, in turn, was consistent with its regulatory obligations. 
I remain satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, 
Carey was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, 
with the Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Careys own understanding  its 
submissions to us note that adherence to TCF is something it had in mind when 
considering its approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of whether it should 
accept business from a particular introducer. 
It is also clear that Carey understood and accepted its obligations meant that it had a 
responsibility to carry out due diligence on the Store First investment too. As I set out later in 
this decision, Carey also set a standard for investment due diligence which it thought was 
consistent with good (or best) practice at the relevant time. I remain satisfied that, to meet 
its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Carey was also required to consider 
whether to accept or reject particular investments, with the Principles in mind.
I note Careys Terms and Conditions, which it highlighted in its response to my provisional 
decision, include the following: 
11.   Investment instructions
11.1 The trustee, as directed by us, will be involved, as outlined in this section, with the 
investment process. Investments are made at our discretion and we may refuse to secure or 
cash in or dispose of any investments for the following reasons:
11.1.1 your instructions are not confirmed to us in writing;
11.1.2 in our opinion making the proposed investment would give rise to a tax charge 
including, but not limited to, a taxable property charge, unauthorised payment charge, tax 
surcharge or scheme sanction charge, or where the proposed investment could be
deemed to be a trading activity giving rise to income or capital gains tax; 
11.1.3  in our opinion the proposed investment is unlawful, impracticable, contrary to a court 
order or contrary to legislation;11.1.4  there are insufficient cleared funds available within your fund;
11.1.5  in our opinion the proposed investment could expose your fund and/or the scheme to 
liabilities your fund may not be able to meet;
11.1.6 it is shown, to our satisfaction, that you no longer have the capacity to enter in 
agreements or contracts due to physical or mental impairment and we have not received 
your valid power of attorney, or other legally acceptable document, to accept instructions on 
your behalf;
11.2 No investment can be completed until our approval has been granted. Where approval 
for an investment is sought by you, we will respond as soon as reasonably practicable based 
upon the extent of the enquiries we need to make to establish the acceptability of an 
investment. In some cases this may involve obtaining a professional valuation or opinion, the 
cost of which will be borne by you or your fund. Where an investment is not approved, we 
will inform you of this decision.
I do not think the list of reasons why Carey might decline to accept an investment instruction 
is exhaustive. But its clear that Carey understood it could, and should, consider whether to 
accept a particular investment instruction. 
In its response to my provisional decision, Carey has made a number of references to its 
contract with Mr S (i.e. the nature of the relationship between it and Mr S). I have carefully 
considered all the documentation Carey refers to in its response. However, on this point, 
there is little more I can do than reiterate the basis on which my provisional decision was 
made - on the understanding that Carey acted purely as a SIPP operator - and to confirm 
this decision is made on the same basis. As mentioned above, I do not say Carey should (or 
could) have given advice to Mr S or otherwise have ensured the suitability of the Store First 
investment for him. So, I have not overlooked or discounted the basis on which Carey was 
appointed. And, this decision on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss 
case, is made with all of those matters in mind. 
All in all, I am satisfied that, in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators  rules and regulations, Carey should have 
carried out due diligence on CL&P to the sort of standard it has described in its submissions 
to us  which were consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the 
time and carried out due diligence on the Store First investment which was consistent with 
good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Carey 
should have used the knowledge it gained from that due diligence to decide whether to 
accept or reject a referral of business or a particular investment. 
I am satisfied Careys regulatory obligations could have been met in the way I describe 
without providing Mr S with advice  none of this amounts to a consideration of the suitability 
of an investment in Store First for Mr S personally. These are general considerations. And, 
as Ive highlighted above, Carey did belatedly take action to reject any further referrals from 
CL&P and to accept no further Store First investments. 
In my view, the contract between Carey and Mr S does not mean that Carey should not be 
held responsible for failing to comply with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due 
diligence on CL&P and the Store First investment which ultimately led to Mr S losing a 
significant part of his pension. This is especially true when Carey had obtained information 
many months before it facilitated Mr Ss investment which led it to reject any further referrals 
from CL&P and had concerns about the Store First investment before it facilitated Mr Ss 
investment. It would not be fair and reasonable to say the contract meant Carey could ignore 
all red flags and proceed with Mr Ss business regardless.  For the remainder of my decision, I have adopted the main headings used in my provisional 
findings, as I revisit each point. As a reminder, my provisional decision forms part of this final 
decision. 
Due diligence on CL&P
I have carefully revisited introducer due diligence, in light of Careys response to my 
provisional decision. However, I remain of the same view as that set out in the provisional 
decision. As my provisional decision forms part of this decision, I will not repeat the full detail 
of my reasoning here. In summary, I said Carey failed to conduct sufficient due diligence on 
CL&P before accepting business from it and ought reasonably to have concluded that it 
should not accept business from CL&P, and ended its relationship with it before Mr Ss 
application was made, because: 
From late 2011, in accordance with its own standards (as submitted to us), Carey 
should have carried out company checks on CL&P, reviewed CL&Ps accounts, and 
checked sanctions lists. These standards appear to be consistent with good 
industry practice and Careys regulatory obligations at the relevant time. 
Carey ought to have known the FSA kept a list of alerts, relating to unregulated 
businesses, which were often based overseas. As a SIPP operator considering 
accepting business from an unregulated overseas firm, it should have been mindful 
of the FSAs list of alerts and it ought to have checked this list before proceeding with 
accepting business from CL&P. 
Carey ought to have undertaken sufficient enquiries into CL&P to understand who its 
directors were, and checked the FSAs warning list as part of its due diligence on 
CL&P. Had it carried out these checks before accepting business from CL&P it would 
have discovered that CL&Ps director was Mr Terence Wright, and that he was on the 
FSA warning list.
It is fair and reasonable to conclude that the FSA warning was a clear warning  an 
alert - relating specifically to Mr Terence Wright, providing links to guidance on 
consumer protection and warnings about scams.  
CL&Ps director Mr Terence Wrights presence on the FSA warning list should have 
led Carey to conclude it should not do business with CL&P. I note this is a view which 
was held by Ms Hallett when she gave evidence to the court during the Adams v 
Carey hearing. Such a conclusion was the proper one it ought to have reached 
bearing in mind Careys responsibilities under the Principles. 
The evidence clearly shows that Carey was on notice, before Mr Ss application was 
received by it, that what CL&P had told it in December 2011 about cash incentives 
not being offered was not correct. Carey should have reacted promptly to this 
information  particularly given it knew it had been contacted by CL&P customers 
about cash incentives previously. Instead it continued to accept applications from 
CL&P  including Mr Ss.
Prompt action on the issue of cash incentives would have inevitably led Carey to 
discover that cash incentive payments were being offered by CL&P at that time, and 
that what CL&P had told Carey was not correct.  
If Carey had acted with a reasonable amount of diligence it would have discovered 
that CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own words, completely against 
all rules (see further below). And it would have known that CL&P was acting without integrity as it had not told it the truth when asked about cash incentives. In my view, 
the only fair and reasonable thing it should have done was to decide not to accept 
any further business from CL&P. 
It appears a request for CL&Ps accounts was not made until 23 March 2012. Carey 
has told us it has no record of receiving the information and that this was a likely 
factor in its eventual decision to end its relationship with CL&P. 
It is fair and reasonable that Carey should have met its own standards, set in late 
2011, and should have checked CL&Ps accounts at the outset before accepting any 
business from it. If checks on CL&Ps accounts had been attempted earlier, the fact 
that CL&P was unwilling to provide this information should have raised a red flag. 
And, if not receiving the accounts when requested was, (as Carey has submitted), a 
factor in ending its relationship with CL&P, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that if 
the accounts had been requested at the outset and CL&P had failed to provide them, 
it is unlikely Carey would have accepted any introductions from CL&P at all.  
I am satisfied that the due diligence requirements that I set out above, and in my provisional 
decision, is the level of due diligence it is reasonable to conclude Carey was required to 
conduct on CL&P given its regulatory obligations, and in all the circumstances here. 
Ive set out below my consideration of what I consider to be the key points Carey has made 
in response to my provisional findings in relation to the due diligence obligations it had in 
respect of CL&P. 
The FSA Warning
I accept Carey was not prohibited from dealing with unregulated introducers. But my finding 
is not that Carey should have declined to do business with CL&P solely because it was 
unregulated. My finding is based on what Carey knew or what it ought to have known about 
CL&P specifically at the time of accepting Mr Ss application, and even more starkly in my 
view, what it knew at the time of processing his investment instruction when it had already 
terminated its agreement with this unregulated introducer. It should be remembered that 
CL&Ps director was on the FCAs warning list, and, by the time Carey facilitated Mr Ss 
investment in Store First, it knew that CL&P had been misleading it as to whether it had 
been offering inducements, and had terminated its relationship with CL&P. 
In relation to the warning, in its response to my provisional decision, Carey says the FSA 
notice was not entered onto World Check (the checking service it used) until 24 October 
2011 - after Carey had carried out its checks on CL&Ps other representatives and after it 
had started accepting business from CL&P. And so, if it had run a check on Mr Terence 
Wright at the outset, this would not have revealed his entry on the FSAs warning list. Carey 
adds that it was under no obligation to check the list itself. 
I remain of the view that Carey, as a regulated SIPP operator, ought to have known the FSA 
kept a list of alerts, relating to unregulated businesses, which were often based overseas. As 
a SIPP operator considering accepting business from an unregulated overseas firm, it 
should have been mindful of the FSAs list of alerts and, in compliance with its regulatory 
obligations, it ought to have checked this list before accepting business from CL&P. 
I remain of the view that checking the warnings posted on the FSAs website is something 
that Carey should have done as a matter of course before it began accepting any business 
from CL&P. I consider this amounts to good industry practice and, I remain of the opinion it 
would have been fair and reasonable, and in accordance with its regulatory obligations, for 
such a check to take place before it entered into a relationship with CL&P. So, if I accept that use of the World Check service to check Mr Terence Wright at the outset 
would not have revealed his entry on the list, this does not change my view. Carey should 
have checked the FSAs list. The fact that Carey chose to use a tool and the tool may have 
missed something doesnt mean it shouldnt be held responsible  for the reasons given, it 
should have checked the list itself. To my mind, the fact Carey now say that the tool they 
used wouldnt have picked up the warning in any event is irrelevant to my finding that Carey 
failed to undertake sufficient due diligence on CL&P and missed the fact that Mr Terence 
Wright was subject to an FSA alert. 
Turning now to the warning itself, in its response to my provisional decision Carey says Mr 
Terence Wrights entry on the list, in the form in which it had been published in 2010, stated 
only that Mr Terence Wright was not regulated by the FSA and referred only to a business 
named Cash In Your Pension. And it points out there was no contradiction between the FSA 
notice and any statement provided by Mr Terence Wright that he was not subject to any FSA 
action or censure. On this basis, it says even if its search of World Check had revealed the 
FSA notice, there is no reason this would necessarily have led it to conclude at the time that 
it should not enter into business with CL&P.
I would again highlight that Careys Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court 
during the Adams v Carey hearing (at Paragraph 60) which HHJ Dight summarised as 
follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published warnings 
about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not authorised under 
FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check 
was made to see whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs 
website until May 2012. The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 
25 May 2012. She accepted that had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the 
defendant would not have dealt with CLP. 
Careys response to the provisional decision appears to be completely at odds with this 
testimony of its Chief Executive. 
In any event, I do not accept Careys argument that the 2010 version of the FSA alert would 
not necessarily have led it to conclude that it should not enter into business with CL&P.  For 
all the reasons given in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that the October 2010 
alert was a clear indication that the regulator had serious concerns about the way Mr 
Terence Wright conducted his business and therefore should have put Carey on notice that 
it should not accept business from Mr Terence Wright. 
The National Archive of the FSA website shows the description of the list on the FSAs 
website in August 2011 (when Careys relationship with CL&P began) was as follows:
Firms and individuals to avoid
We have a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you 
should not deal with.
The regulator therefore described those featuring on the list as firms and individuals that we 
believe you should not deal with. I consider that this supports my view that Carey should 
have been particularly circumspect before it agreed to do business operated by an individual 
who featured on that list. 
I also remain of the view that the presence of Mr Terence Wright on the list, after he had 
answered no to a question asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a red flag to Carey. I think there is a contradiction between 
Mr Terence Wrights answer to Carey and his presence on the list. A censure is an 
expression of severe disapproval, and I think the FSA adding Mr Terence Wright to its list 
was exactly that. His being added to the list is also clearly action by the FSA. So Mr Terence 
Wrights answer to Carey was not consistent with the facts. 
The offering of cash incentives/inducements
On the subject of the cash incentive, Carey says, in its response to my provisional decision: 
It was not aware until May 2012 that these payments were being offered as cash 
incentives, its understanding up until then being that they were rental income 
payments into clients SIPPs. And once it became aware of the cash incentives, it 
terminated its relationship with CL&P.
There is no reason it should have known that Mr S had been promised or received  
any cash incentive/inducement. He confirmed in his member declaration that he had 
not.
While cash inducements contravene HMRC rules, they have no bearing on the 
suitability or otherwise of the investment at issue.
Paying cash back to an investor is just, at worst, potentially tax inefficient. 
Given the contemporaneous evidence and Careys previous submissions on this point, it is 
surprising it now says that it did not think cash incentives were being offered until May 2012, 
and that it believes such incentives to be, at worst, tax inefficient. 
As set out in my provisional decision, Carey spoke to CL&P in a conference call on 9 
December 2011. And, Carey has told us that in that call CL&P:
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include offering inducements.
And a Carey staff member:
emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or connected parties receive 
any form of inducement for making particular investments.
So, Careys notes of the 9 December 2011 conference call between it and representatives of 
CL&P show they specifically discussed cash inducements and confirm that at that time, 
Carey considered such payments to be completely against all rules. 
So, in December 2011, Carey at least suspected cash incentives were being offered. And, 
as I found in my provisional decision, acting in accordance with its regulatory obligations and 
best practice, Carey ought to have carried out some independent investigation in order to get 
to the bottom of this issue.  In my mind, it should have at least contacted customers 
introduced by CL&P to check whether they had been offered, or had received, a cash 
incentive/inducement. 
I note that on 29 March 2012, a Team Leader at Carey sent an email to Ms Hallett, Careys 
CEO, noting this is the second member this week to ask when are they getting their 
money. The Team Leader at Carey clearly thought this was an issue serious enough to 
escalate to Careys CEO. I would reiterate that when Carey finally terminated its agreement with CL&P in May 2012, 
its email to CL&P said it had done this because Despite your assurances that no clients 
have been or will be offered inducements (monetary or otherwise) for making investments 
through their SIPPs with us, we have received enquiries as to when client can expect to 
receive their money and have today [25 May 2012] been informed by a new client that they 
are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst investment purchase. 
I also note that in Ms Halletts follow up email to CL&P of 28 May 2012 she described cash 
incentives as not allowable as we have explained to you [CL&P] previously.
Given the available evidence, I find it surprising that Carey now says it thought the payments 
were rental income being paid into its customers SIPPs. This is the first time Carey has 
made this claim and it appears to be inconsistent with the evidence Carey has previously 
provided to us, which shows Carey knew  before it received Mr Ss application  that CL&P 
was making direct cash payments to customers. The payments were therefore unauthorised 
payments, and Carey was clearly aware of that  hence its concern.  
As noted above, Careys own Terms and Conditions said it may refuse to make an 
investment if making the proposed investment would give rise to a tax charge including 
unauthorised payment charge. Again, this appears to be inconsistent with its response to 
my provisional decision  where Carey seems to be attempting to diminish the significance 
of a consumer becoming liable for an unauthorised payment charge, explaining it viewed 
such cash payments to customers as just, at worst, potentially tax inefficient. I think if an 
unauthorised tax charge was so insignificant then it is highly unlikely it would be included in 
Careys Terms and Conditions as a reason to refuse to make an investment.
Taking account of the available evidence, I am satisfied that Carey suspected (and later 
knew) cash incentives were being paid, and  rightly, in my view  saw this as a significant 
issue at the time, even if its view on this has since changed. 
I remain of the view that Carey should have taken prompt action in December 2011 which 
would ultimately have led to it discovering cash incentives were being paid or, failing that, 
taken prompt action in March 2012 when it did know cash incentives were being paid. And I 
remain of the opinion that such action ought to have led to Carey ending its relationship with 
CL&P before it received the application from Mr S. Not least because its awareness of such 
payments meant it would have known that CL&P was acting without integrity  as it had not 
told it the truth when asked about cash incentives in December 2011. 
I note that in its response to the provisional decision Carey says it was not aware until May 
2012 that payments were being offered as cash incentives (at which point it terminated the 
relationship with CLP). However, the available evidence shows Carey knew in March 2012 
what it knew in May 2012. And arguably what it ought to have known in December 2011. On 
that basis, I consider it ought to have ended the relationship sooner. But, in any event, it 
does not dispute it knew in May 2012 and, notwithstanding what it now says about the 
significance of cash incentives, it appears to accept this was reason to end the relationship  
at a time which predates the completion of Mr Ss application. 
The request for CL&Ps accounts
In response to my provisional findings on its request for a copy of CL&Ps accounts, Carey 
says the standards I mention were only introduced in late 2011. And that shortly thereafter, 
in March 2012, it requested accounts from CL&P and, when they were not forthcoming, 
terminated the relationship in May 2012.
I do not agree that March 2012 is shortly after Carey introduced the standards in late 2011. Or that it was fair and reasonable to wait until May 2012 to terminate the relationship given 
the number of red flags that should have warned Carey that there was a significant chance 
of consumer detriment by continuing to accept business from CL&P. 
Carey also now appears to accept this was a valid reason to terminate the relationship with 
CL&P (albeit belatedly, as with the cash incentives). And this again predates Careys  
facilitation of Mr Ss investment in Store First. 
Conclusion on introducer due diligence 
In conclusion I remain of the opinion  that in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable for 
me to find that if Carey had carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P, or acted on the 
information it subsequently received in a timely manner, it should not have accepted 
business (including Mr Ss application) from CL&P.
Investment due diligence 
I have carefully revisited investment due diligence, in the light of Careys response to my 
provisional decision. However, I remain of the same view as that set out in the provisional 
decision. As my provisional decision forms part of this decision, I will not repeat the full detail 
of my reasoning here. In summary, I said Carey ought to have had significant cause for 
concern about the nature of the Store First investment because:
The company searches were carried out on the promoter of Store First, Harley Scott 
Holdings Ltd, not Store First itself. In my view, I think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Carey to have conducted some further basic searches, given there 
were factors in the report on Harley Scott Holdings Ltd which ought to have been of 
concern  namely the adverse comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and 
the fact the business had recently changed its name. 
A simple internet search at the time Carey conducted its investment due diligence on 
Store First (i.e. in May 2011) would have revealed that Dylan Harvey (one of three 
previous names of Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, which at the time had the web address 
dylanharvey.com) and one of its directors, Toby Whittaker, were the subject of a 
number of national press reports, online petitions and proposed legal action, as a 
result of a failed property investment. 
There were aspects of the press reports which I think ought to have given Carey 
cause for concern. The company which had approached Carey about Store First  
and on which Carey had conducted its searches (Harley Scott Holdings Ltd)   had 
recently been involved in a property investment scheme which had failed. It had also 
recently changed its name, and had been subject to a number of adverse comments 
in succession, following audit.  All this ought to have given Carey significant cause for 
concern.
Carey says that as part of its due diligence on Store First it obtained copies of Store 
Firsts marketing material. The material set out high fixed returns, and said these 
were guaranteed. However, the material does not contain any type of risk warning, or 
illustrations of any other returns. No explanation of the guarantees was offered, or 
the basis of the projected returns  other than Store Firsts own confidence in its 
business model and the self-storage marketplace. 
I note Carey considered a report by Enhanced Support Solutions (ESS). In my view, 
this report was of limited value. The report was cursory, and based only on some of 
the material Carey had regard to i.e. the marketing material and lease documents. As a result, I think Carey should have found it difficult to reconcile the view reached by 
ESS with the information available to it. 
The conclusion of the ESS report is inconsistent with the result of Careys own 
company searches. The report also makes no comment on the obvious issues with 
the marketing material. So, I dont think Carey could have taken any comfort from the 
ESS report or attached any significant weight to it. 
In my opinion, there were a number of things about the marketing material which 
ought to have given Carey significant cause for concern and which should have led it 
to have drawn similar conclusions to those later reached by SSA UK (on the basis of 
a report by Deloitte LLP) and the Insolvency Service. Namely, that there was a 
significant risk that potential investors were being misled. 
Carey should not have overlooked the fact that Store First appeared to be presenting 
the investment as one that was assured to provide high and rising returns, was 
underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high level of liquidity together with a strong 
prospect of a capital return - despite the fact that there was no investor protection 
associated with the investment and that, in Careys own words, there is no apparent 
established market for the investment and the investment is potentially illiquid
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Carey couldnt be certain 
that the investment operated as claimed. Carey should also have been concerned 
about a guarantee offered by a new business with no track record (and promoted by 
a business with a questionable one). 
I think, in light of this, Carey should have been concerned that consumers may have 
been misled or did not properly understand the investment they intended to make. 
I think all of this should have been considered alongside the fact the investment was 
being sold by an unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension 
investors. In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable to find that Carey ought to have 
concluded there was an obvious risk of consumer detriment and it should at least 
have done more to understand the Store First investment before allowing it into its 
SIPP.
Looking beyond Careys initial due diligence  which, for the reasons I have set out, 
ought to have given it significant cause for concern  the available evidence shows 
that Carey was aware of other causes for concern in relation to Store First by the 
time it accepted the investment into Mr Ss SIPP on 30 October 2012. 
Based on the available evidence, it appears that on 20 May 2012, Carey became 
aware that Store First was paying commission of 12% to CL&P. Given how the 
investment was being marketed, I think the payment of such a high level of 
commission to an unregulated business ought to have given Carey very serious 
cause for concern. And I think Carey also ought to have been concerned about how 
Store First was funding such levels of commission alongside guaranteed income 
payments and guaranteed buy backs. It calls the nature of the Store First investment 
into serious question. 
It also seems that Carey became aware of unspecified (at the time of my provisional 
decision) issues with Store First in August 2012 (and possibly earlier) which were of 
sufficient concern for it to suspend acceptance of the investment. And it seems Carey 
knew of concerns expressed by the FSA about loans to Mr Toby Whittaker by Store 
First. Although it is not clear at the time of my provisional decision) if the latter pre-dates Mr Ss investment.
Carey facilitated Mr Ss investment in Store First on 30 October 2012. This was after 
it had already suspended acceptance of the investment because of concerns it had 
identified. It appears the suspension must have been lifted at some stage  although 
at this time Carey has provided no explanation for why or when it was lifted at (again 
this finding was based on what was known at the time of my provisional decision).  
Ive set out below my consideration of what I consider to be the key points Carey has made 
in its response to these findings. 
The high-risk nature of Store First 
In its response to my provisional decision, Carey says no breach arises as a result of Store 
First being high-risk. It says that being a high-risk investment does not make it manifestly 
unsuitable  instead suitability of a high-risk investment depends on the particular financial 
circumstances of the particular customer. And, Carey says it was not in a position to make 
an assessment of that in the case of Mr S. 
I accept these points. I do not say that Carey ought to have reached the conclusion that an 
investment in Store First was unsuitable for Mr S. And I am also not saying that Carey 
should not have allowed the Store First investment into its SIPP because it was high risk. 
Instead, it is my fair and reasonable opinion that there were things Carey knew or ought to 
have known about the Store First investment which ought to have led Carey to conclude it 
would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations or good practice to allow it into its 
SIPP. Or to at the very least have had significant concerns about the investment  which it 
ought to have considered alongside what it knew, or ought to have known, about CL&P. 
I note Carey says it received a statement (I assume in May 2012, as its internal email dates 
from that time) from Store First which stated [Store First] confirmed they have been liaising 
with FSA regarding the investment and explaining to FSA the procedure and structure and 
FSA have not raised any concerns. But this significantly post-dates Careys initial decision 
to accept Store First - which, in my opinion, was not a fair and reasonable decision.  So 
things should never have got to this point. 
In any event, if Careys point is that this statement was a sufficient basis for it to accept 
investment instructions after May 2012 that is not a point I accept. I do not think the 
statement is sufficient to counter the points which should have given Carey cause for 
concern which Ive set out in my provisional decision and summarised above. It also lacks 
detail. The fact the FSA had not at that point raised any concerns does not necessarily mean 
it thought there were no issues with Store First. Ive also not seen sufficient evidence to 
conclude Carey took much comfort from this statement or, at least, thought it dealt with all 
the issues there might be with the investment. It seems Carey identified issues with the 
investment following this statement and it first suspended and later terminated its 
acceptance of it.  
Carey says there was nothing in the company searches or internet research it carried out, in 
the report it obtained from Enhanced Support Solutions or in the marketing material that 
Store First provided that, considered objectively, should have suggested any problem with 
the Store First investment. I do not agree with this for the reasons Ive set out in my 
provisional decision. In my opinion, the factors I have identified should have, when 
considered objectively, put Carey on notice that there was a significant risk of consumer 
detriment. And, without more evidence to ensure the investment was appropriate for its 
SIPP, I am satisfied that Carey should not have accepted the investment.  In any event, by the time Carey facilitated Mr Ss investment in Store First in October 2012, 
Carey was aware of further concerns with the investment and had in fact already suspended 
it in August 2012. 
Applying the findings of the SSA report 
Carey says my findings are coloured by hindsight - that Ive read the SSA report of May 
2014 back into the situation in 2012. It also says it would not be realistic to expect it to have 
engaged in the level of analysis of the Store First investment undertaken by the SSA report. 
I do not say Carey should have identified all the issues the SSA report sets out. I only say 
that, based on the information available to Carey at the relevant time, it should have drawn a 
similar overall conclusion - that there was a significant risk that potential investors were 
being misled. I can appreciate Careys concern about the use of hindsight. I do not say it 
ought to have foreseen all the issues which later came to light with Store First. But I am 
satisfied, on a fair and reasonable basis, that a significant risk of consumer detriment ought 
to have been apparent from the information available to it at the time. Carey was privy to a 
number of red flags at the time it made the decision to accept the investment  and, acting 
in accordance with its regulatory obligations, and being mindful of the fact that this 
investment was being introduced by an unregulated introducer, these ought to have led it to 
the conclusion Store First was not an investment it should allow into its SIPP. 
The suspension of Store First
In my provisional decision, I noted that Carey facilitated Mr Ss investment in Store First after 
it had already suspended the investment. I said that acceptance of the investment must have 
been lifted at some stage, but noted Carey had provided no explanation of why or when it 
was lifted. In its response to the provisional decision, Carey explained that it suspended 
investments in Store First in August 2012 as a precautionary step after it received  
notification that Harley Scott Holdings (a promotor of Store First) was subject to a tax 
investigation. 
Carey says it subsequently made enquiries of Store Firsts auditors, who confirmed that 
Store First was not subject to any tax investigation. It added that it also requested 
confirmation from Store First as to which of its investors were being paid a guaranteed 
income. As noted above, it has since explained that the latter was done because:
Following the monitoring of investors that held Store First, all of which we understood had 
applied for the investment as per the marketing material, the marketing material provided for 
a Title in a Leasehold property in the form of storage units with a 6 year leaseback and a 
guaranteed rental income. Despite the marketing material not providing any other option, we 
found that only a small proportion of Store First investors were receiving the rental income 
as expected and therefore we requested a list of all of our investors rental arrangements.
It says the responses received from Store First and its auditors meant there was no reason 
for it not to proceed with Mr Ss investment in Store First on 30 October 2012.
However, I disagree that this was the appropriate conclusion for Carey to reach in the 
circumstances here. Based on the evidence Carey has provided in relation to the exchanges 
it had with Store First and its auditors in August and September 2012, I do not think this 
should have given Carey sufficient comfort to remove the Store First suspension. 
The letter from Store Firsts auditors may have been sufficient to address any concern Carey had about Store First being subject to a tax investigation. But, as I have set out here and in 
my provisional decision, whether or not there was a tax investigation was not the only issue 
with Store First  and it seems from the evidence now available that Carey itself thought 
there were other issues too. 
Carey says it understood the investment provided for a title in a leasehold property and a 
guaranteed rental income. However, Carey notes it had identified that only a small 
proportion of Store First investors were receiving the rental income as expected from the 
investment. Carey has provided an agenda for a meeting it had with Store First on 15 August 
2012. This meeting  which predates the bulletin which refers to the tax investigation  
included the agenda item Rental Income Process/Delays for discussion. Following that, on 
27 September 2012, Store First sent Carey the list of guaranteed rental and non-
guaranteed rental investors
The 15 August 2012 meeting agenda also includes the item and Sale Process/Delays. So, 
it seems Carey had concerns that customers had not been receiving the rental income from 
the Store First investment they expected. And concerns about processes and delays, and 
that all these concerns pre-dated Mr Ss investment in Store First. 
Careys CEO, Ms Hallett, also appears to have recognised the risk that customers did not 
fully understand the Store First investment they had made (or that they had not been given 
accurate information about it) when making the decision to lift the suspension and continue 
accepting the Store First investment into Careys SIPP.  As noted above, the 27 September 
2012 Carey internal email from Ms Hallett said Carey should make our member 
declarations clearer re what option the clients have selected eg guaranteed and non-
guaranteed to ensure there is no come back on us at a later date that they did not realise.
I note the indemnity that Carey requested Mr S sign before facilitating his investment in 
Store First does not include anything to alert him to this issue.  So, in Mr Ss case at least, it 
seems no steps were taken to ensure he understood what the Store First investment 
apparently offered.  
I am satisfied that in the circumstances, Carey had further reasons to have significant 
concerns about the Store First investment before it proceeded with Mr Ss investment 
instructions. It had suspended the investment after identifying factors it was concerned 
about, and I am not persuaded that it did enough to allay the risk factors it had identified 
before making the decision to lift the suspension and facilitate Mr Ss investment in Store 
First.   
It is clear that Carey had concerns about processes and delays. And, more starkly, it had  
concerns that its customers who had invested in Store First were not receiving the rental 
income as expected from the investment. I think this was a significant risk factor that Carey 
ought to have got to the bottom of before lifting the suspension it had placed on accepting 
the Store First investment into its SIPP. And, from the evidence Carey has provided, I am 
not satisfied that Carey did enough, in accordance with its regulatory obligations and best 
practice, to ensure that the Store First investment was being run as marketed to consumers, 
and thus making it appropriate in the circumstances to lift the suspension. 
Conclusion on investment due diligence 
In conclusion, I remain satisfied that Carey ought to have had significant cause for concern 
about the nature of the Store First investment from the beginning. And I think these 
concerns, in themselves, should have at the very least led it to be very cautious about 
accepting Store First and to think very carefully about the basis on which it should be 
accepted, mindful of its obligation to prevent consumer detriment. And its concerns ought to have increased in 2012, given what Carey later became aware of.  Given the circumstances  
at the time of Mr Ss application, I think the only fair and reasonable conclusion, based on 
what Carey knew or ought to have known at the time, is that Carey should not have 
accepted Mr Ss application to invest in Store First. In my opinion, it ought to have concluded 
that it would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations, or best practice, to do so. 
Overall conclusion on due diligence 
I remain of the view that, had Carey done what it ought to have done, and drawn reasonable 
conclusions from what it knew or ought to have known, it should not have accepted either 
the application for Mr Ss SIPP from CL&P or the Store First investment. So, I will now 
reconsider whether, notwithstanding this, Carey should fairly and reasonably have 
proceeded with Mr Ss instructions. 
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mr Ss 
instructions?
I have carefully revisited this point, in the light of Careys response to my provisional 
decision. However, I remain of the same view as set out in the provisional decision. Again, 
as my provisional decision forms part of this decision, I will not repeat the full detail of my 
reasoning here. In summary, my findings were: 
It was not fair and reasonable for Carey to have accepted Mr Ss application from 
CL&P in the first place. So, Mr Ss SIPP should not have been established and the 
opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity 
should not have arisen at all. 
I do not think that Careys argument on COBS 11.2.19R is relevant to its obligations 
under the Principles to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP 
in the first place or to execute the instruction to make the Store First investment. 
Carey ought to have been cautious about accepting Mr Ss application even though 
he had signed an indemnity. There was no evidence of any other regulated party 
(other than Carey) being involved in this transaction. So very little comfort could have 
been taken from the declaration stating that Mr S had taken his own advice, and 
understood the risks.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. I consider there 
is a significant imbalance of knowledge between the parties which creates unfairness 
in the circumstances of this case. 
At the time of receiving Mr Ss application and executing his investment instructions, 
Carey knew things that Mr S did not. It knew CL&P had been offering cash incentives 
and that funds may be vulnerable to a tax charge.  It knew that one of the directors of 
CL&P was on the FSAs warning list. It also knew that because of CL&Ps conduct it 
had terminated its relationship with it. And its concerns with the Store First 
investment were sufficient to lead it to suspend acceptance of the investment in 
August 2012. 
So, at a minimum, (setting aside what I say at the outset of this section about Carey 
not accepting the application from CL&P in the first place), Carey should have 
provided Mr S with the information it now possessed so he could make an informed 
decision about whether to proceed with the Store First investment or not. 
Carey itself appears to accept that it was necessary to contact its clients in order to inform them of the situation about the inducements and the possibility of a tax 
charge. Despite this, it did not contact Mr S to provide him with this important 
information. 
Mr S has told us that had he been made aware that Carey had ended its relationship 
with CL&P, he would have asked lots of questions of it in order to check whether it 
was safe to continue with the investment. And, in my view, it is unlikely that the 
questions Mr S would have asked Carey about CL&P would have yielded answers 
which gave Mr S confidence to continue dealing with CL&P.   
In Adams v Carey, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless  he knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment 
but nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Mr S has told us he was told by CL&P that he was guaranteed 
returns. So, when he signed the indemnity, I am not persuaded that he did so with a 
full understanding of what high risk meant.  Instead he was assured by what he had 
been told by CL&P and thought that the returns were guaranteed. 
Another difference in this case is the influence of the cash incentive. The incentive 
was, in Mr Ss words, a bonus  so I do not think it was a factor of significant 
influence. Rather it seems it was the prospect of high guaranteed returns which was 
the main motivating factor for Mr S. 
Based on the available evidence I find on balance that Mr S did not understand that 
his welcome bonus promised from CL&P was a monetary or other inducement for 
transacting this investment. Rather, I accept his evidence that he understood the 
welcome bonus was essentially a thank you for investing so much money. 
In any event, even if Id found that Mr S did understand the indemnity, it is relevant 
that by the time hed signed it, Carey was aware that many of its clients were 
receiving inducements.
In the indemnity itself, no mention is made to the possible consequences of 
accepting any sort of payment, or to this being something which was not allowed 
under the rules. 
In my opinion, asking Mr S to sign an indemnity absolving Carey of all responsibility, 
and relying on such an indemnity, when it ought to have known that Mr Ss dealings 
with CL&P were putting his investment at significant risk was not fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
I note that the judge in Adams v Carey accepted Careys evidence that 
notwithstanding Carey knowing that Mr Terence Wright was on the warning list, and 
that if it had known earlier it would not have dealt with CL&P at all, this was not a 
reason to decline to proceed with the transaction.
However, in my opinion, this case is very different on the facts from that of Mr 
Adams. Once the facts were known to Carey, it is fair and reasonable to expect 
Carey to have explained the situation to Mr S as soon as possible. And, if it had done 
so, I am satisfied that Mr S would not have proceeded with the investment in Store 
First. And he would therefore not have lost his entire pension fund. Given the 
substantial delay in receiving the funds into the SIPP, Carey had ample time to bring 
the issues to the attention of Mr S. In response to my provisional decision, Carey says that by the time it took the decision to 
terminate its relationship with CL&P, the involvement of CL&P in Mr Ss transaction had 
come to an end. And, accordingly there was nothing unreasonable about it continuing with 
Mr Ss application. It adds that it did not contact Mr S regarding the severance of its 
relationship with CL&P because CL&P were introducers only and, in accordance with the 
contract between the parties, Careys relationship with Mr S was direct. Carey says that any 
issues with CL&P did not mean there were issues with the underlying investment, Store 
First. 
However, in my opinion, it was not fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Carey to 
proceed with Mr Ss transaction. The fact that CL&Ps role of introducing the application had 
come to an end does not mean it was fair and reasonable for Carey to proceed, given 
everything it knew, without at the very least providing Mr S with the information it had and 
allowing Mr S to come to his own decision on whether or not he wanted to proceed in light of 
all the facts. I accept that CL&Ps role was that of an introducer only. However, whatever 
CL&Ps role, and whether that role had come to an end or not, Carey was privy to a number 
of reasons why proceeding with Mr Ss application brought with it a significant risk of 
consumer detriment, and it failed to take even the minimal step of making Mr S aware of 
what it knew and allowing him to be given the choice of making an informed decision of 
whether or not to proceed. 
I note Careys point that it is well established that a reasonable person is expected to read 
their correspondence, and the indemnity was written in plain language. I consider this further 
below but, insofar as Careys proceeding with Mr Ss instructions is concerned, I remain of 
the view set out in my provisional decision. I do not think  even if Carey assumed Mr S did 
read the indemnity and understood  it  that this was something Carey could take sufficient 
comfort from, or that it was fair or reasonable for it to ask Mr S to sign the indemnity at all, in 
the circumstances given the complete mismatch in the knowledge of the parties by the time 
it asked him to sign.  
In summary, I remain of the view that once the relevant facts were known to Carey, it was 
required by its regulatory obligations, to ensure that it treated its customers fairly. And, in the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that this would have required Carey to either have stopped    
Mr S from proceeding any further with the Store First investment, or as an absolute 
minimum, to have explained the situation to Mr S as soon as possible and let him have the 
opportunity of making an informed decision whether or not to proceed. It simply was not 
treating Mr S fairly to carry on without informing him of the relevant facts. And, if it had done 
the latter, I am satisfied that Mr S would not have proceeded with the investment in Store 
First. And he would therefore not have lost his entire pension fund.  I remain of the view that, 
given the significant time between the SIPP being opened and the investment made, Carey 
had ample time to bring the issues to the attention of Mr S. 
Is it fair to ask Carey to compensate Mr S? 
I have carefully reconsidered this point, in the light of Careys response to my provisional 
decision. However, I remain of the same view as set out in the provisional decision. Again, 
as my provisional decision forms part of this decision, I will not repeat the full detail of my 
reasoning here. In summary, my findings were: 
I am required to make the decision I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, and I do not consider the fact that Mr S signed the 
indemnity means that he shouldnt be compensated if it is fair and reasonable to do 
so.
Had Carey acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable in my view to conclude that it should not have accepted Mr Ss 
application to open a SIPP introduced from CL&P. That should have been the end of 
the matter  it should have told Mr S that it could not accept the business.  And I am 
satisfied, if that had happened, the arrangement for Mr S would not have come about 
in the first place, and the loss he suffered could have been avoided. 
I would reach a similar conclusion (i.e. that the loss he suffered could have been 
avoided) if Carey had terminated the transaction at a later stage once it was in 
possession of certain facts that meant it ought to have identified that there was a 
significant chance Mr S could suffer financial detriment and was in the position to 
prevent it. Or similarly, if Carey, had explained to Mr S the facts it had since learnt 
about both CL&P and the Store First investment, and allowed him to make an 
informed choice about whether to proceed or not.
Had Carey explained to Mr S why it would not accept the application from CL&P or 
was terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that Mr S would have tried to 
find another SIPP operator to accept the business. 
In any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not 
compensate Mr S for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator 
would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to 
assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the 
application from CL&P, or would have terminated the transaction before completion. 
I appreciate Mr S has told us he did not read the indemnity before he signed it, as he 
trusted Carey. And it was clearly unwise to sign a document without reading it. But, 
given what he has told us, I do not think it would have changed the course of things if 
he had read it. He trusted what he had been told by CL&P.  
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Ss 
actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Careys failings. I 
acknowledge Mr S was warned of the high-risk nature of Store First and declared he 
understood that warning. But, as I set out above, Carey failed to act on, nor did it 
share significant warning signs with Mr S so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether to proceed with the investment. And, in these circumstances, I am 
satisfied that Carey should not have asked him to sign the indemnity at all. And, for 
the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied that the application should never have been 
accepted in the first place, or alternatively, Carey should have put a stop to the 
transaction at a much earlier stage in the process.  
In response to my provisional decision, Carey says that there is no reason why it should 
have known that Mr S had been promised or received any cash inducement, as he 
confirmed in his member declaration that he had not. It adds that Mr S had ample time to 
read and digest all the relevant documentation, to carry out any research he wished, and to 
query anything if he had concerns. And it points out that Mr Ss own evidence is he 
conducted research on Carey before proceeding with his investment. Carey says this 
demonstrates that Mr S understood that the investment was his own decision, and that he 
took responsibility for it. As noted above, Carey has also said it is well established that a 
reasonable person is expected to read correspondence, and the indemnity was written in 
plain language.
Carey also points out that the judge in Adams v Carey held (at paragraph 149) that in 
construing Careys regulatory obligations, regard should be had to section 5(2)(d) of FSMA 
(now section 1C). This section requires the FCA, in securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, to have regard to, amongst other things, the general principle that 
consumers should take responsibility for their own investment decisions.
I think it is important to reiterate here that had Carey acted in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances    
it should not have accepted Mr Ss application from CL&P to open a SIPP at all. And, in 
addition, given what Carey knew or ought to have known by the time it came to facilitating   
Mr Ss investment in Store First in October 2012, it should not have proceeded with this 
transaction. This means it should never have asked Mr S to sign the indemnity  or at the 
very least, it should not have done so without informing him of the relevant information it had 
become aware of so that he was able to make an informed decision on whether or not to 
proceed with the investment. 
I also think the evidence shows that Mr S proceeded in reliance on what CL&P had told him, 
rather than his own independent research, as Carey suggests. It seems from Mr Ss 
comments, that he only looked into the Store First investment in more detail when things 
started to go wrong. 
Finally, whilst I agree that the indemnity was written in relatively plain language, I think it 
needs to be viewed in context. Mr S clearly trusted CL&P and was reassured by what he had 
been told by it  in particular that the investment came with guarantees (something which 
Carey was aware of as it was set out in the Store First marketing material). So, the warning 
that Store First was high risk becomes essentially meaningless when it is given in the 
context of guaranteed returns. It is difficult to reconcile these statements, and it is 
something Carey should have identified as highly vulnerable to a misunderstanding. Which 
is why I have reached the conclusion that Carey ought to have identified a real risk of 
consumer detriment and taken more care to treat Mr S fairly and, at minimum, ensured it had 
taken steps to help Mr S understand the risks. In my view, I am not satisfied that the 
indemnity was sufficient in the circumstances.  
I did consider in my provisional decision whether it would be fair to say Mr Ss actions mean 
he should bear the loss arising as a result of Careys failings. And I remain of the view that it 
would not be fair to say that. I am mindful of section 5(2)(d) of FSMA, but it does not follow 
that it is fair and reasonable to say Mr S is responsible for the loss he has suffered simply 
because he ultimately made the decision to invest in Store First. In the circumstances of this 
particular case, I think the key point is that Carey was aware of important facts which it failed 
to disclose to Mr S when it should have been clear to Carey that there was a serious risk of 
consumer detriment. There was an imbalance of knowledge. And, for all the reasons I have 
given, I am satisfied Mr S would not have made the same investment decision had he been 
aware of those facts. This is, in any event, a secondary point, as I do not think that, if 
complying with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, Carey should have 
accepted Mr Ss application at all, and he would hence have been unable to enact his 
decision to transfer his pension into a  SIPP and make the investment in Store First. 
With all this in mind, I remain of the opinion that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case to find that Carey is unable to rely on the indemnity that Mr S 
signed in order to avoid liability for the regulatory failings it has made in this case. And, I 
remain satisfied, for all the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, that it is fair 
and reasonable to conclude that Carey should compensate Mr S for the loss he has suffered 
to his pension. 
Putting things right 
Carey says that my proposal as set out in the provisional decision for how compensation 
should be calculated runs contrary to that set out in Rubenstein v HSBC and the Adams case. It suggests Mr Ss loss should be calculated by reference to an investment in real 
property, rather than what his previous pension would be worth now. 
FSMA and the DISP rules set out that a money award may be such amount as the 
ombudsman considers to be fair compensation for, (amongst other things) financial loss, 
whether or not a court would award compensation (see section 229 of FSMA and DISP 
3.7.2R). 
In this case, I have not seen any evidence that suggests Mr S would have made an 
alternative real property investment if Carey had refused to accept his application from CL&P 
or to invest in Store First. So Careys proposed approach would not - in my view - be fair 
compensation for Mr S. 
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry best 
practice at the relevant time have led to Mr S suffering a significant loss to his pension. And, 
my aim is therefore to return Mr S to the pension position he would now be in but for Careys 
failings. 
In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr S would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension. 
In summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ss pension.  If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr S direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1 Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Ss pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP. 
Carey should ask Mr S's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved by the sort of funds Mr S would have been invested in, had he not 
transferred to the SIPP.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr S has suffered. The Store First investment 
should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of the cash back 
payment paid out to Mr S.
2 Take ownership of the Store First investmentsI understand Carey has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible.  
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable 
value in the future.  I understand Mr S has the option of returning his Store First investment 
to the freeholder for nil consideration.  That should enable him to close his SIPP, if Carey 
does not take ownership of the Store First investment. 
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr S decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated 
with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about these costs. 
3 Pay compensation to Mr S for loss he has suffered calculated in (1). 
Since the loss Mr S has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Mr S could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss marginal 
rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr S may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr S direct.  But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr S should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4 Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. 
This is money Mr S cannot afford to lose and its loss has caused him to lose all confidence 
in pension providers.  I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for 
that upset.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Options SIPP UK LLP 
should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
John Pattinson
Ombudsman 
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
My provisional findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'd like to assure both parties that I've looked at all of their submissions with care. In this 
decision I concentrate on the key arguments and evidence that are material to my 
determination of the complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems
Principle 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients and 
treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J  said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach 
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to 
the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the  
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers  complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were required 
to be taken into account. 
Ive considered whether Adams v Carey means that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And, I find that it doesnt. In Adams v Carey, HHJ Dight did not 
consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the pleadings 
submitted by Mr Adams. So, Adams v Carey says nothing about the application of the FCAs 
Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.  
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account 
when deciding this complaint. 
Regulatory publications 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports. The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves 
and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc).
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client for 
SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility 
to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc).
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at 
the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate, to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
Berkeley Burke case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter 
go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. Im also satisfied that Carey, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought the 
2009 thematic review report was relevant and it set out examples of good industry practice.  
The summary of Careys approach to introducer due diligence (which Ive summarised 
above), had the title The changes CPUK introduced following the Thematic Review in 
September 2009 and adherence to TCF and Appropriateness. 
Like the ombudsman in the Berkeley Burke case, I do not think the fact that the publications, 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of 
this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good 
practice at the time of the events.
The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance 
with those Principles. 
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst 
the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the 
standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the 
standards themselves had not changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances. 
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Carey complied with its regulatory 
obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to take 
reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed 
above to provide an indication of what Carey could have done to comply with its regulatory 
obligations and duties. 
What did Careys obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As mentioned at page 15 , Carey has told us In late 2011.. The due diligence process 
was improved, with company checks, accounts and affiliated companies also being reviewed 
and checks against sanctions lists. 
On the non-regulated introducer profile, Carey stated, As an FSA regulated pensions 
company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on unregulated 
introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business they 
carry out.So, long before the time of Mr Ss application in April 2012, Carey understood and accepted 
its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on CL&P. It had 
set a standard for its introducer due diligence which it thought was consistent with good (or 
best) practice at the relevant time and that, in turn, was consistent with its regulatory 
obligations. 
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Carey 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Careys own understanding  its submissions 
to us note that adherence to TCF is something it had in mind when considering its 
approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of whether it should accept business 
from a particular introducer. 
It is also clear Carey understood and accepted its obligations meant that it had a 
responsibility to carry out due diligence on the Store First investment too. As I set out later in 
this decision, Carey also set a standard for investment due diligence which it thought was 
consistent with good (or best) practice at the relevant time. I am satisfied that, to meet its 
regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Carey was also required to consider 
whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the Principles in mind.
All in all, I am satisfied that, in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators  rules and regulations, Carey should have 
carried out due diligence on CL&P of the sort of standard it has described in its submissions 
to us  which were consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the 
time and carried out due diligence on the Store First investment which was consistent with 
good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Carey 
should have used the knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept 
or reject a referral of business or particular investment. 
Due diligence on CL&P
The actions Carey took  which were carried out after its relationship with CL&P began, 
rather than before it accepted business from CL&P  are set out in detail in the background 
sections above. So I will not repeat them here. However, I would note at this point that the 
actions Carey took, in addition to being taken after Carey began accepting business from 
CL&P, appear to have been taken on a reactive, piecemeal, basis. 
In addition, the available evidence shows Carey did not meet its own standards when 
carrying out due diligence on CL&P. From late 2011, in accordance with its own standards 
(as submitted to us), it should have carried out company checks on CL&P, reviewed CL&Ps 
accounts, and checked sanctions lists. As I set out above, these standards appear to be 
consistent with good industry practice and Careys regulatory obligations at the relevant time 
(although it is not clear what a check of sanctions lists would encompass). However, Carey 
did not - in practice - act in a way which was consistent with good industry practice and its 
regulatory obligations at the relevant time. I explain this in more detail below. 
The FSA list 
CL&P was an unregulated business, based in Spain, and was proposing to deal with the 
pensions of UK consumers. Carey ought to have known the FSA kept a list of alerts, relating 
to unregulated businesses, which were often based overseas. Carey has not explained what 
a search/check of sanctions lists entailed. But I think a check of such lists should have 
included the FSAs list of alerts. In any event, as a SIPP operator considering accepting 
business from an unregulated overseas firm, it should have been mindful of the FSAs list of 
alerts, and in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it ought to have checked this list before proceeding with accepting business from CL&P, whether it considered the FSAs list 
of alerts to be a sanctions list or not. 
At the relevant time, the FSAs list featured warnings (alerts) about unauthorised 
individuals and businesses. And, in my view, checking the warnings posted on the FSAs 
website is something that Carey should have done as a matter of course before it began 
accepting any business from CL&P. This is consistent with good industry practice as 
highlighted in the 2009 thematic review report and later documents. And, I find it would have 
been fair and reasonable, and in accordance with its regulatory obligations, for such a check 
to take place before it entered into a relationship with CL&P. 
As part of its independent checks, Carey used a risk intelligence tool called World Check. I 
understand this is a tool which is internationally recognised and commonly used by 
businesses to carry out background searches. And, I assume its use was part of what Carey 
describes as searches when explaining the due diligence standards it introduced in late 
2011, (which, in my view, if they had been implemented effectively, were consistent with 
good industry practice and in compliance with Careys regulatory obligations). 
However, although Carey used the tool here, it failed to run checks on the appropriate 
persons at CL&P. On 20 September 2011 it ran checks on a Ms Adams and a Mr Lloyd. 
However, I understand that these individuals were only employees of CL&P and neither 
controlled nor managed CL&P. So, the fact that the checks run on these individuals did not 
raise any issues is of little, if any, value. It does not mean that Carey had met its regulatory 
obligations here. In my view, as a first step, Carey ought to have carried out sufficient due 
diligence so as to properly establish who the directors or individuals who controlled CL&P 
were. Only then would it be able to run checks on the appropriate persons.  
As part of its due diligence process, Carey required CL&P to fill out a non-regulated 
introducer profile questionnaire. CL&P completed the questionnaire on 29 September 2011. 
The profile named the two directors of CL&P, one of which was Mr Wright. The profile made 
no mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. So, at this point, Carey was aware Mr Wright was one 
of the directors of CL&P. If Carey had run Mr Wrights details through the World Check tool 
then, it is likely to have identified that he appeared on the FSAs warning list. I note that it 
was over seven months before it finally did this, on 15 May 2012. And the result, as I set out 
below, flagged that there was an alert for a Mr Terence (Terry) Wright on the FSAs list. 
And, the tool provided links to the entry on the list. 
I note that the profile CL&P completed asked the question: Are you and/or the Firm subject 
to any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. And, Mr Wright 
answered No to this question. However, it was not sufficient, in my view, to simply ask the 
introducer a general question.  Rather, I think Carey, acting fairly, with due regard to Mr Ss 
interests, should have carried out its own check on Mr Wright. And that appears to have 
been Careys view too. Its comments suggest it understood it was good practice, consistent 
with its regulatory obligations, to make its own independent checks. So, it ought to have 
undertaken a check on Mr Wright before it began accepting introductions from CL&P. 
Had Carey checked the FSAs list in August 2011, it would have discovered that Mr Wright 
was the subject of the following alert: 
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has today published this statement in order to warn 
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
The purpose of this statement is to advise members of the public that an individual Terence (Terry) Wright
is not authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things, advising on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK customers via the 
firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised 
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
If Carey had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice at 
the relevant time it ought to have undertaken sufficient enquiries on CL&P to understand 
who its directors were, and checked the FSAs warning list as part of its due diligence on 
CL&P. Had it carried out these checks before accepting business from CL&P it would have 
discovered that CL&Ps director Terence Wright was on the FSA warning list.
Cash incentives 
In November 2011, five months before it received Mr Ss application, Carey became aware 
of a number of consumers who had received or were expecting to be paid incentive 
payments to move their pensions to Carey.  Such payments are against the rules covering 
pensions and can attract a substantial tax charge from HMRC.  
On becoming aware cash incentives were being offered, Carey spoke to CL&P in a 
conference call on 9 December 2011.  Carey has told us that in that call CL&P:
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include offering inducements.
And a Carey staff member:
emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or connected parties receive 
any form of inducement for making particular investments.
An email was sent to Ms Hallett (the CEO of Carey) by a Team Leader at Carey on 29 
March 2012  around three weeks before Mr Ss application was received by Carey. The 
email forwarded the following email the Team Leader had sent to a consumer, which 
included the following:
you [a consumer introduced to Carey by CL&P] mentioned in our conversation a cash back 
amount you are expecting in the sum of £1,800 from CL&P following completion of the 
Storefirst investment 
The text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader included the following:
this is the second member this week to ask when are they getting their money. 
So the evidence clearly shows that Carey was on notice, before Mr Ss application was 
received by it, that what CL&P had previously told it about cash incentives not being offered was not correct. The email from the team leader to the consumer was clear and unequivocal 
 the consumer had been offered cash back by CL&P. 
Carey should have reacted promptly to this information  particularly given it knew it had 
been contacted by CL&P customers about cash incentives previously. Instead it continued to 
accept applications from CL&P  including Mr Ss.
Accounts 
Based on the available evidence, it appears a request for CL&Ps accounts was not made by 
Carey until 23 March 2012. Its not clear why the request was made at this time. But it seems 
CL& P did not respond as the request was repeated, as urgent, on 3 April 2012. CL&P 
replied to Carey to say the information would be in the post the next day. However, when 
asked, Carey has told us it has no record of receiving the information and that this was 
another likely factor in its eventual decision to end its relationship with CL&P. 
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable that Carey should have met its own standards, set in 
late 2011, and should have checked CL&Ps accounts at the outset before accepting any 
business from it. 
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Carey failed to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it. And, in light of the 
Principles and FSA/FCA regulatory publications I have quoted above, this means Carey did 
not comply with its regulatory obligations or with good industry practice at the relevant time.  
If Carey had completed sufficient due diligence, what ought it reasonably to have 
concluded?
In my opinion, I think Mr Wrights appearance on the FSAs list ought to have highlighted to 
Carey that the regulator was concerned enough about Mr Wrights activities to warn 
consumers about him. And I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude 
that the warning was aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with 
him.
With this in mind, I think the warning should have acted as a significant reason for Carey to 
be concerned about any business Mr Wright was involved in  not just Cash In Your 
Pension. The warning mentioned that Mr Wright was involved in the area of pensions  
which is the same business area that CL&P was active in. And the warning said that Mr 
Wright was not authorised and may be targeting UK customers in connection with 
investment business conducted through an unregulated company, Cash In Your Pension. 
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after he had answered no to a question 
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Carey  it should have given rise to significant concern about Mr Wrights conduct 
and integrity. 
I note that Carey ended its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on Mr 
Wright. Im satisfied that this check was a factor in its decision to end the relationship. In fact, 
Carey has told us that the wording in the 2013 warning, if it had been published at the time 
of it accepting business from CL&P, would have been sufficient to stop it doing business with 
Mr Wright/CL&P. It said:
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear warning including an express 
comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would have put Carey Pensions on notice to stop accepting business from Mr Wright. (my emphasis)
Carey says, in its representations in this complaint relating to the FSAs list, that the 2010 
warning would not have led it to the same conclusion. It says: 
the Notice (the alert) amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to 
carry on regulated activities, a fact of which Carey was well aware and upon which basis it 
accepted referrals from CL&P. 
However, Careys Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court during the Adams 
v Carey hearing, which is summarised at Paragraph 60 of the judgment as follows:  
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published warnings 
about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not authorised under 
FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check 
was made to see whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs 
website until May 2012. The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 
25 May 2012. She accepted that had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the 
defendant would not have dealt with CLP.
This, in my view, is inconsistent with Careys representations to us on this complaint. 
In any event, although in its representations on this complaint Carey has said it believes the 
2010 alert was less significant than the 2013 one, by contrasting the wording of the two 
alerts, I think the October 2010 alert was a clear indication that the regulator had serious 
concerns about the way Mr Wright conducted his business and therefore should have put 
Carey on notice that it should not accept business from Mr Wright. 
Carey says that the 2010 alert does not detail any concern by the regulator about Mr Wright. 
I accept that the 2013 alert provides strong advice to only deal with financial firms authorised 
by the FCA. However, I do not agree with Careys characterisation of the 2010 alert and Im 
surprised that Carey suggests that the regulator does not detail any concern about Mr Wright 
in the 2010 alert. 
A publication headed ALERT in bold is clearly not a routine, unimportant document.  Its 
clear from the wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with 
unauthorised firms and specifically named Mr Wright. He was involved in targeting (to use 
the FSAs phrase) UK based pension investors  which should have been of particular 
concern to a SIPP operator considering accepting business from him.  The alert also 
provided links to:
A list of unauthorised firms
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors
A document telling investors about the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms 
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the warning was more than a mere 
statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not carry out regulated activities. It was a 
clear warning  an alert - relating specifically to Mr Wright, providing links to guidance on 
consumer protection and warnings about scams.  So in my opinion, CL&Ps director Terence Wrights presence on the FSA warning list should 
have led Carey to conclude it should not do business with CL&P. That is my view and I note 
it is a view which was held by Ms Hallett when she gave evidence to the court during the 
Adams v Carey hearing. Ms Hallett told the court that if she had been aware of the warning 
in 2010 Carey would not have dealt with CL&P. Such a conclusion was the proper one it 
ought to have reached bearing in mind Careys responsibilities under the Principles. 
In addition, I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that prompt action on the issue of 
cash incentives in November 2011 would have inevitably led Carey to discover that cash 
incentive payments were being offered by CL&P at that time, and that what CL&P had told 
Carey was not correct. It follows that Carey ought to have concluded that it could not rely on 
what CL&P was telling it and it would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations to deal 
with any further business from CL&P. 
If Carey had acted with a reasonable amount of diligence it would have discovered that 
CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own words, completely against all rules. 
And it would have known that CL&P was acting without integrity  it had not told it the truth 
when asked about cash incentives. In my view, the only fair and reasonable thing it could do 
would have been to decide not to accept any further business from CL&P. 
A further opportunity to take prompt action was missed on 29 March 2012, when Ms Hallett 
was made aware a CL&P customer had asked when they would receive the cash incentive 
CL&P had offered. It was almost two months before Carey wrote to CL&P to say it was 
terminating its agreement with CL&P, because a client had today (i.e. on 25 May 2012) told 
it they were expecting around £2,000 cash. Carey should have taken prompt action on 29 
March 2012  which it failed to do  only finally terminating its relationship with CL&P in May 
2012.  
So Carey should have taken action  which would ultimately have led to it ending it 
relationship with CL&P - before it received an application from Mr S. It is unclear why Carey 
did not take action long before it did, and end its relationship with CL&P before Mr Ss 
application was made. 
Finally, I think if checks on CL&Ps accounts had been attempted earlier, the fact that CL&P 
were unwilling to provide this information should have raised a red flag, as it apparently 
eventually did. This reluctance to provide basic information should have been a further factor 
which ought to have led Carey to question whether it should enter into or continue a 
relationship with CL&P. And, it would have meant Carey should never have entered into a 
relationship with CL&P at all.
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Carey ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it and to act on information 
received about the conduct of CL&P before continuing to accept business from it, that it 
should not accept business from CL&P. If Carey had carried out proper introducer due 
diligence, or acted on the information received in a timely manner, it ought to have 
concluded that it should not accept business from CL&P. I therefore conclude that it is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to say that Carey should not have accepted Mr Ss 
application from CL&P.
Investment due diligence 
As Ive explained above, Carey should not have accepted Mr Ss introduction from CL&P. I 
think it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint on that basis alone. Nevertheless, given the submissions that Carey has previously made about its due diligence on Store First, 
and the regulatory obligations and good industry practice I have set out above, Ive also 
considered the due diligence that Carey carried out on the investment. I have taken the 
same approach to considering this as I did to considering the due diligence undertaken on 
CL&P. 
The actions Carey took are set out in detail in the background sections above, so I will not 
repeat them here. I think some of the actions Carey took  were in-line with good practice at 
the relevant time when carrying out its due diligence on Store First. However, I think Carey 
failed to take all the actions that were required of it in order to comply with its regulatory 
obligations and good practice. And, based on what it knew, it failed to draw a reasonable 
conclusion on accepting the investment. I do not think Careys actions went far enough, and 
I think it ought to have carried out further enquiries in the light of what was revealed by the 
due diligence it did carry out. 
I note the company searches were carried out using a service called Company Searches. 
This was good practice but, consistent with its regulatory obligations, Carey should not only 
have carried out the searches but also given careful consideration to what they revealed. 
The searches were carried out on the promoter of Store First, Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, not 
Store First itself  perhaps because at that point Store First was just being established. The 
result of the searches reported that Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had a website address 
dylanharvey.com, and had changed its name three times having previously been called 
Dylan Harvey Group Ltd, Dylan Harvey Ltd and Grangemate Ltd. The report also said 
County Court Judgments (CCJs) were recorded against the business and that auditors had 
made adverse comments in the previous three reporting years. 
Its not clear what consideration Carey gave to this report, after it obtained it. But, in my view, 
I think it would have been fair and reasonable for it to have conducted some further basic 
searches, given there were factors in the report which ought to have been of concern  
namely the adverse comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the 
business had recently changed its name. 
A simple internet search at the time of the searches (i.e. in May 2011) would have revealed 
that Dylan Harvey and one of its directors, Toby Whittaker, were the subject of a number of 
national press reports, online petitions and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed 
property investment. It was reported that hundreds of investors had invested money in a 
scheme to develop flats, but the flats had not been built and the investors had been unable 
to recover their money. Those investors were behind the online petitions and proposed legal 
action. 
Carey says it obtained copies of Store Firsts marketing material. It has provided us with 
copies of this. Again, I accept that potentially this was good practice. In order to correctly 
understand the nature of the investment, I think its fair and reasonable to say Carey should 
have reviewed how Store First was marketed to investors  particularly as it was proceeding 
on the basis that these investments were being made by consumers without regulated 
advice being provided. Clearly Carey thought it was important to look at this material at the 
time too. 
But, again, consistent with its regulatory obligations, Carey should not only have obtained 
the material but should have given careful consideration to it. 
The marketing material included the following prominent statements: 
You will receive guaranteed returns from a 6 year lease already in place upon completion, making this a high yielding, hassle-free investment which has been specifically designed to 
meet the needs of todays astute investor.
You will receive a 6 year lease in place upon completion. The lease produces an excellent 
return of 8% (guaranteed for the first 2 years) rising to over 12% in years 5 and 6. The lease 
contains upward-only rental reviews and break clauses for both parties every two years.
Guaranteed exit route option.
It then goes on to set out in a table the returns payable in years 1&2, 3&4 and 5&6 at 8%, 
10% and 12%. In the question and answer section the following is included: 
What rental income can I expect?
Storepod rental starts at £17 per Sq/Ft per annum. The 6 year tenancy/Iease in place on 
your Storepod has fixed upwards only rental reviews and break clauses (for both parties) 
every 2 years. This produces an 8% yield on your investment within the first two years, this 
then is predicted to rise to over 10% return in years 3&4 and then surpass 12% return in 
years 5&6.
Can I easily re-sell my Storepod?
Yes. You can re-sell your Storepod at any time and selling your Storepod couldnt be 
simpler. Store First Ltd can market your Storepod upon your request. We believe that 
because Storepods are so competitively priced when new, they will make a very attractive 
sale proposition in the future. We also expect that many tenants will wish to purchase the 
Storepod they are using. For example, other self storage PLCs usually achieve rent of 
between £20.00 - £25.00 per square foot. Our Storepods are costed at a rent of only £17.00 
per square foot; once higher rents are achieved the capital value of the Storepod will 
increase.
Guaranteed exit route?
In year 5, investors have the option to enter the guaranteed buy-back scheme. In this 
scheme, Store First Management Ltd will guarantee to buy the Storepod back off the 
investor for the original price paid within the next 5 years. This is a unique offer in the market 
place and we are happy to be able to offer this exit route to our investors.
Most investors are driven to keep the property investment they have purchased and carry on 
receiving the rental yield produced for years to come, this means only a very limited number 
of Storepods per centre will ever come onto the resale market, this creates a high sale value 
and demand for the future.
The material says the figures shown are for illustration purposes. But it does not contain 
any type of risk warning, or illustrations of any other returns. No explanation of the 
guarantees was offered, or the basis of the projected returns  other than Store Firsts own 
confidence in its business model and the self-storage marketplace. 
I note Carey considered a report by Enhanced Support Solutions (ESS). In my view this was 
of limited value. It was cursory, and based only on some of the material Carey had regard to 
i.e. the marketing material and lease documents. As a result, I think Carey should have 
found it difficult to reconcile the view reached by ESS with the information available to it. The 
report said: 
The following parties are involved in this investment:Seller of the sub-lease: Store First Limited
UK Promoter: Harley Scott Holdings Limited
No adverse history has been found affecting these parties. A CCJ was issued against the 
promoter of the scheme however we understand this arose from a disputed invoice which is 
in the course of being settled. This is any event does not directly impact on the investment.
This conclusion is inconsistent with the result of Careys own company searches. The report 
also makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material. So, I dont think 
Carey could have taken any comfort from the ESS report or attached any significant weight 
to it. 
If Carey had completed sufficient due diligence on Store First, what ought it 
reasonably to have concluded?
The failure of the previous scheme which Dylan Harley/Harley Scott Holdings had been 
involved in may have been entirely down to market forces. But there were aspects of the 
press reports which I think ought to have given Carey cause for concern. And I think the fact 
that the company which had approached Carey about Store First  and on which Carey had 
conducted searches  had recently been involved in a property investment scheme which 
had failed, had recently changed its name, and had been subject to a number of adverse 
comments in succession, following audit, ought to have given Carey significant cause for 
concern. Particularly when it considered the marketing material for Store First. 
In my view there were a number of things about the marketing material which ought to have 
given Carey significant cause for concern and to have led it to have drawn similar 
conclusions to those later drawn by SSA UK (on the basis of a report by Deloitte LLP) and 
the Insolvency Service. Namely, that there was a significant risk that potential investors were 
being misled. 
I think, as it had regard to this material, Carey could not overlook the fact that Store First 
appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to provide high and rising 
returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high level of liquidity together with a 
strong prospect of a capital return - despite the fact that there was no investor protection 
associated with the investment and that, in Careys own words, there was no apparent 
established market for the investment and the investment was potentially illiquid. 
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Carey couldnt be certain that the 
investment operated as claimed. Carey should also have been concerned about a guarantee 
offered by a new business with no track record (and promoted by a business with a 
questionable one). 
I think, in light of this, Carey should have been concerned that consumers may have been 
misled or did not properly understand the investment they intended to make. Consumers 
could easily have been given the impression, from the marketing material, that they were 
assured of high returns with little or no risk and would easily be able to sell their investment 
when they wished to. Such an impression was clearly misleading. 
I think all of this should have been considered alongside the fact the investment was being 
sold by an unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. In my 
opinion it is fair and reasonable that Carey ought to have concluded there was an obvious 
risk of consumer detriment. 
Looking beyond Careys initial due diligence  which, for the reasons I have set out, ought to have given it significant cause for concern  the available evidence shows that Carey was 
aware of other causes for concern in relation to Store First by the time it accepted the 
investment into Mr Ss SIPP on 30 October 2012. 
It seems that on 20 May 2012, Carey became aware that Store First was paying commission 
of 12% to CL&P. Given how the investment was being marketed I think the payment of such 
a high level of commission to an unregulated business ought to have given Carey very 
serious cause for concern. And I think Carey also ought to have been concerned about how 
Store First was funding such levels of commission alongside guaranteed income payments 
and guaranteed buy backs. It calls the nature of the Store First investment into serious 
question. 
It also seems that Carey became aware of unspecified issues with Store First in August 
2012 (and possibly earlier) which were of sufficient concern for it to suspend acceptance of 
the investment. And it seems Carey knew of concerns expressed by the FSA about loans to 
Mr Whittaker by Store First. Although it is not clear if the latter pre-dates Mr Ss investment.
Carey facilitated Mr Ss investment in Store First on 30 October 2012. This was after it had 
already suspended acceptance of the investment because of concerns it had identified. It 
appears the suspension must have been lifted at some stage  although at this time Carey 
has provided no explanation for why or when it was lifted.  
DISP 3.5.9R provides that:
The Ombudsman may:

(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure 
by a party to provide information requested 
Based on the evidence I have currently been provided with, I am minded to conclude that by 
proceeding with Mr Ss investment when it did, Carey failed to conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence, take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly 
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems or pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly. As a responsible SIPP operator, I currently have no 
evidence - and have been given no explanation - for why Carey would lift the suspension 
after identifying sufficient concerns to put one in place. I invite Carey to provide any evidence 
on this point, but if nothing further is provided, it is my view that it is fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Carey did not comply with its regulatory obligations  and this led directly to 
the loss Mr S suffered.       
All in all, I am satisfied that Carey ought to have had a significant cause for concern about 
the nature of the Store First investment from the beginning. And I think these concerns, in 
themselves, should have at the very least led it to be very cautious about accepting Store 
First and to think very carefully about the basis on which it should be accepted, mindful of its 
obligation to prevent consumer detriment. In addition, by the time Mr Ss application to invest 
in Store First was received, Carey had already become so concerned with the Store First 
investment that it had put in place a suspension. And, Carey has provided no reason for why 
this was lifted so as to allow Mr Ss application to be put through in October 2012.  Given the 
circumstances in place at the time of Mr Ss application, I think the only fair and reasonable 
conclusion is that Carey should not have accepted Mr Ss application to invest in Store First. 
In my opinion, it ought to have concluded that it would not be consistent with its regulatory 
obligations to do so. In summary, had Carey done what it ought to have done, and drawn reasonable conclusions 
from what it knew or ought to have known, it ought not to have accepted either the 
application for Mr Ss SIPP from CL&P or the Store First investment. So, I will now consider 
whether, notwithstanding this, Carey could fairly and reasonably have proceeded with Mr Ss 
instructions. 
Did Carey act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ss instructions?
Carey has said that it was reasonable to proceed in the light of the indemnity, and that it was 
obliged to proceed in accordance with COBS 11.2.19R. 
Before considering these points, I think it is important for me to reiterate that, it was not fair 
and reasonable, for Carey to have  accepted Mr S application from CL&P in the first place. 
So in my opinion, Mr Ss SIPP should not have been established and the opportunity to 
execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity should not have 
arisen at all. 
COBS 11.2.19R
I note that Carey has made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged it to execute investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, it is required to 
execute the specific instructions of its client. 
However, in the circumstances it is my view that the crux of the issue in this complaint is 
whether Carey should have accepted the SIPP application from CL&P and established 
Mr Ss SIPP in the first place. 
In any event, Careys argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 
11.2.19R was considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:  
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which orders 
are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is consistent with the 
heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to 
the same effect. The expression when executing orders indicates that it is looking at the 
moment when the firm comes to execute the order, and the way in which the firm must then 
conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, albeit 
in a different context, in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  
[35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should be 
executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client orders, and is designed to 
achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, 
and refers to the factors that must be taken into account when deciding how best to execute 
the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont think that Careys argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP in the first 
place or to execute the instruction to make the Store First investment. 
The indemnity
The indemnity sought to confirm that Mr S was aware the investment was high risk, had 
taken his own advice, and would not hold Carey responsible for any liability resulting from 
the investment. It also asked Mr S to confirm that neither he nor any person connected to him was receiving a monetary or other inducement. 
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators should, as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers taking 
responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data regarding the 
aggregate volume of such business.
With this in mind, I think Carey ought to have been cautious about accepting Mr Ss 
application even though he had signed an indemnity. There was no evidence of any other 
regulated party (other than Carey) being involved in this transaction. In these circumstances 
I think very little comfort could have been taken from the declaration stating that Mr S had 
taken his own advice, and understood the risks (in relation to the investment).
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. 
Carey received the application from CL&P to open the SIPP for Mr S on 17 April 2012. 
Carey terminated its relationship with CL&P on 28 May 2012. The Co-operative didnt send 
the sum of £42,477.80 to Carey until 3 September 2012 and it wasnt until 2 October 2012 
that Mr S signed the indemnity. 
I consider there is a significant imbalance of knowledge between the parties which creates 
unfairness in the circumstances of this case. 
Throughout this period, and certainly by the time Mr S was asked to sign the indemnity in 
October, Carey knew things that Mr S did not. For example, it knew CL&P had been acting 
against all the rules by offering cash incentives and that funds would be vulnerable to a tax 
charge.  It knew that one of the directors of CL&P was on the FSAs warning list. It also knew 
that because of CL&Ps conduct it had terminated its relationship with it and had advised a 
client who had been offered an inducement that it wouldnt proceed with that application. 
And its concerns with the Store First investment were sufficient to lead it to suspend 
acceptance of the investment in August 2012. 
So, at a minimum, (setting aside what I say at the outset of this section about Carey not 
accepting the application from CL&P in the first place), Carey was required to ensure it was 
treating Mr S fairly and acting in accordance with his best interests. And, Carey should 
therefore have provided Mr S with the information it now possessed so he could make an 
informed decision about whether to proceed with the Store First investment or not. 
I note Carey itself appears to accept that it was necessary to contact its clients in order to 
inform them of the situation about the inducements and the possibility of a tax charge as 
when terminating its relationship with CL&P, Ms Hallett said, in her email of 28 May 2012: 
We will process them [ongoing applications] where we have already established the 
schemes, we will be writing to all clients informing them If they have received any monies 
then they must declare this to HMRC and their fund would also be vulnerable to a tax charge 
as well.
Despite what Carey had said to CL&P, it did not contact Mr S to provide him with this 
important information. 
Mr S has told us he would have wanted to know if it was safe to continue (with the 
investment), and had he been aware that Carey had ended its relationship with CL&P, he would have asked lots of questions of it. I think it unlikely that course of action would have 
led to Mr S having an appetite to continue. Carey would not have been able to assure Mr S it 
was safe to deal with CL&P and its unlikely any questions asked of Carey about CL&P would 
have yielded answers which gave Mr S confidence to continue dealing with CL&P.   
In Adams v Carey, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but nevertheless 
decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive..
But, in this case, Mr S has told us he was told by CL&P that he was guaranteed returns. 
So, when he signed the indemnity I do not think he did so with a full understanding of what 
high risk meant, and was assured by what he had been told by CL&P.  This is exactly why 
Carey should have been wary of dealing with CL&P  it had already proved to be 
unscrupulous so Carey should have been wary of what it was in fact telling Mr S, and 
whether that undermined or contradicted any warnings it gave about risk. 
Another difference in this case is the influence of the cash incentive. The incentive was, in 
Mr Ss words, a bonus  so I do not think it was a factor of significant influence. Rather it 
seems it was the prospect of high guaranteed returns which was the main motivating factor 
for Mr S. 
In terms of the content of the indemnity I note that Carey asked Mr S, when signing the 
indemnity, to: 
confirm that neither I nor any person connected to me is receiving a monetary or other 
inducement for transacting this investment.
However, based on the available evidence I find on balance that Mr S did not understand 
that his welcome bonus promised from CL&P was a monetary or other inducement for 
transacting this investment. Rather, I accept his evidence that he understood the welcome 
bonus was essentially a thank you for investing so much money. So I think he viewed it as a 
return from the investment or CL&P, rather than an inducement. 
My view on this is supported by the many other consumers who appear to not have 
understood that they were doing anything wrong. This is reflected by the number who 
contacted Carey directly and asked when they would be receiving their money. I find it highly 
unlikely that if they were aware that they shouldnt have been receiving this money they 
would have been contacting the party that had asked them to sign an indemnity to confirm 
that they wouldnt be receiving money or any other inducement. 
In any event, even if Id found that Mr S did understand the indemnity it is relevant that by 
the time hed signed it, Carey was aware that many of its clients were receiving 
inducements. 
As I say above, Carey did not check with Mr S whether he had been offered the type of 
inducement that the indemnity referenced. Also, in the indemnity itself, no mention is made 
to the possible consequences of accepting any sort of payment, or to this being something 
which was not allowed under the rules. And I reiterate that Carey did not let Mr S know that 
Mr Wright featured on the FSAs warning list or that the Store First investment had been 
suspended from being allowed into a Carey SIPP wrapper for a period of time. 
Carey had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory obligations that Ive set out 
in this decision. In my view, asking Mr S to sign an indemnity absolving Carey of all responsibility, and relying on such an indemnity, when it ought to have known that Mr Ss 
dealings with CL&P were putting him at significant risk was not the fair and reasonable thing 
to do. 
I note that the judge in Adams v Carey accepted Careys evidence that notwithstanding 
Carey knowing that Mr Wright was on the warning list, and that if it had known earlier it 
would not have dealt with CL&P at all, this was not a reason to decline to proceed with the 
transaction. Paragraph 60 of Adams v Carey judgment says:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published warnings 
about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not authorised under 
FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check 
was made to see whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs 
website until May 2012. The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 
25 May 2012. She accepted that had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the 
defendant would not have dealt with CLP. However, I accept her evidence that this was not 
a reason to proceed with the transaction involving the claimant in circumstances where he 
had already given his instructions and the process was nearing completion.
However, in my opinion, this case is very different from that of Mr Adams. In Adams v Carey 
Mr Adams conceded that he would have proceeded with the application regardless. 
However, I am satisfied on the evidence provided by Mr S that this was not the case. Carey 
was belatedly in possession of the knowledge that Mr Wright was on the FSA warning list. In 
my view, for the reasons set out above, it should have been in possession of that information 
long before May 2012. But, nevertheless it now had that information. It also knew that CL&P 
was offering monetary inducements, which is against tax legislation relating to pensions. If 
CL&P had offered Mr S such a payment (which it seems it did) there was a real chance that 
he could be subject to a substantial tax charge from HMRC. It follows that Im firmly of the 
view that for Carey to proceed with the transaction without drawing this to the attention of Mr 
S was not treating him fairly. 
In my opinion, once the facts were known to Carey it was fair and reasonable for Carey to 
have explained the situation to Mr S as soon as possible. And, if it had done so, I am 
satisfied that Mr S would not have gone forward with the investment in Store First. And he 
would therefore not have lost his entire pension fund.   And, given the substantial delay in 
receiving the funds into the SIPP, Carey had ample time to bring the issues to the attention 
of Mr S. In fact, by the time Carey received Mr Ss instruction to proceed with the Store First 
investment, it had already suspended acceptance of the Store First investment into the 
SIPP. 
Summary of my provisional findings on due diligence
In summary,  Carey did not comply with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and 
diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr S fairly by accepting Mr Ss 
application from CL&P, in the light of what it knew or ought to have known about CL&P 
before Mr Ss application was received, or throughout its relationship with him. For all the 
reasons given, I am satisfied that, in my opinion, this is the fair and reasonable conclusion to 
reach.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not making a finding that Carey should have assessed the 
suitability of the investment or the SIPP for Mr S. I accept Carey had no obligation to give 
advice to Mr S, or otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. 
My finding is not that Carey should have concluded that the investment or SIPP was not 
suitable for Mr S.Rather, Cary was able to accept or reject applications for business and I say that it should 
have rejected Mr Ss application for a SIPP introduced by CL&P, and failing that, for the 
reasons I set out above, it should not have accepted his request to invest in Store First made 
in October 2012.
Is it fair to ask Carey to compensate Mr S? 
In deciding whether Carey is responsible for any losses that Mr S has suffered on his Store 
First investment I need to look at what would have happened if Carey had done what it 
should have done i.e. had not accepted Mr S SIPP application in the first place. 
Carey says Mr S signed the indemnity which included the declaration that he was not 
receiving an inducement to make the investment. And it says that as Mr S did in fact receive 
a payment from CL&P, his declaration to the contrary was dishonest and amounts to fraud.
I accept that Mr S did give the indemnity, but as Ive said previously, based on the available 
evidence, I find on balance that Mr S did not understand that his welcome bonus - 
promised from CL&P - was a monetary or other inducement for transacting this investment. 
He has told us he understood this was essentially a thank you for investing so much money 
 so I think he viewed it as a return from the investment, rather than an inducement. 
I am required to make the decision I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and I do not consider the fact that Mr S signed the indemnity means that he 
shouldnt be compensated if it is fair and reasonable to do so.
In deciding whether Carey is responsible for any losses that Mr S has suffered on the 
investments in his SIPP I need to look at what would have happened if Carey had done what 
it should have done i.e. not accepted Mr Ss application.
Had Carey acted fairly and reasonably it should have concluded that it should not accept 
Mr Ss application to open a SIPP. That should have been the end of the matter  it should 
have told Mr S that it could not accept the business.  And I am satisfied, if that had 
happened, the arrangement for Mr S would not have come about in the first place, and the 
loss he suffered could have been avoided. The financial loss has flowed from Mr S 
transferring out of his existing pensions and into a SIPP.  For the reasons I set out below I 
am satisfied that, had the SIPP application not been accepted, the loss would not have been 
suffered. I would reach a similar conclusion if Carey had terminated the transaction at a later 
stage once it was in possession of certain facts that meant there was a significant chance Mr 
S could suffer financial detriment.
Had Carey explained to Mr S why it would not accept the application from CL&P or was 
terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that Mr S would have tried to find another 
SIPP operator to accept the business. As mentioned, he has told us he would have wanted 
to know if it was safe to continue. And, had he been aware Carey had ended its relationship 
with CL&P, he would have asked questions about it. I think it unlikely that course of action 
would have led to Mr S having an appetite to continue. 
In any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not compensate 
Mr S for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would have made 
the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP 
provider wouldnt have accepted the application or would have terminated the transaction 
before completion if it had acted fairly and reasonably by following good industry practice 
and made decisions with its regulatory obligations in mind. So again, I think the end result 
would have been that Mr S would not have made the Store First investment or the switch from his existing pension that proceeded it. 
I appreciate Mr S has told us he did not read the indemnity before he signed it, as he trusted 
Carey. And it was clearly unwise to sign a document without reading it. But, given what he 
has told us, I do not think it would have changed the course of things if he had read it. He 
trusted what he had been told by CL&P.  
So Im satisfied that Mr S would not have continued with the SIPP, had it not been for 
Careys failings, and would have remained in his existing scheme.  And, whilst I accept that 
CL&P is responsible for initiating the course of action that has led to his loss, I consider that 
Carey failed unreasonably to put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity 
and obligation to do so.
I have considered paragraph 154 of the Adams v Carey judgment, which says:  
The investment here was acknowledged by the claimant to be high risk and/or speculative. 
He accepted responsibility for evaluating that risk and for deciding to proceed in knowledge 
of the risk. A duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of the client,
who is to take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be construed in my judgment
as meaning that the terms of the contract should be overlooked, that the client is not to
be treated as able to reach and take responsibility for his own decisions and that his 
instructions are not to be followed.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Ss actions 
mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Careys failings. I do not say Carey 
should not have accepted the application because the investment was high risk. I 
acknowledge Mr S was warned of the high risk and declared he understood that warning. 
But, as I set out above, Carey did not share significant warning signs with him so that he 
could make an informed decision about whether to proceed or not. In any event, Carey 
should not have asked him to sign the indemnity at all as the application should never have 
been accepted or alternatively the transaction should have been terminated at a much 
earlier stage in the process.  
I am satisfied in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, that it is fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Carey should compensate Mr S for the loss he has suffered. 
In making these findings, I take account the potential contribution made by other parties to 
the losses suffered by Mr S. In my view, in considering what fair compensation looks like in 
this case, it is reasonable to make an award against Carey that requires it to compensate 
Mr S for the full measure of his loss. But for Careys failings, Mr Ss pension transfer would 
not have occurred in the first place.
I am not asking Carey to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
I am satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question.  That other 
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able 
to determine. However, that fact should not impact on Mr Ss right to fair compensation from 
Carey for the full amount of his loss. 
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Carey should not have accepted Mr Ss application from CL&P in the first place and certainly should have 
terminated the transaction before completion.  For the reasons I have set out, I also think it is 
fair to ask Carey to compensate Mr S for the loss he has suffered. 
I say this having given careful consideration to the Adams v Carey judgment but also bearing 
in mind that my role is to reach a decision that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.
Putting things right 
My aim is to return Mr S to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Careys failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr Ss SIPP 
application from CL&P or for not terminating the transaction before completion.  
In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr S would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension. 
In summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ss pension.  If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr S direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1 Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Ss pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP. 
Carey should ask Mr S's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr S has suffered. The Store First investment 
should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of the cash back 
payment paid out to Mr S.
2 Take ownership of the Store First investments
I understand Carey has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible.  
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable 
value in the future.  I understand Mr S has the option of returning his Store First investment to the freeholder for nil consideration.  That should enable him to close his SIPP, if Carey 
does not take ownership of the Store First investment. 
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr S decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated 
with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about these costs. 
3 Pay compensation to Mr S for loss he has suffered calculated in (1). 
Since the loss Mr S has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Mr S could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss marginal 
rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr S may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr S direct.  But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr S should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4 Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. 
This is money Mr S cannot afford to lose and its loss has caused him to lose all confidence 
in pension providers.  I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for 
that upset.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days. 
  
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman