DRN-3022163
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted him a loan 
that he couldnt afford to repay. 
  
What happened
Mr S financed car deals through two separate hire purchase agreements with Advantage. As 
follows;
Start date Capital 
amountTotal 
repayableMonthly 
repaymentDeposit Duration
(Months)
09/05/2014 £4,995 £11,090.84 £200.33 £1,300 48
04/09/2015 £8,556 £15,173.13 £264.29 £726.47 54
Mr S says that Advantage didnt carry out adequate checks and that if they had they would 
have realised the agreements werent affordable for him.
Advantage didnt agree. They said they had verified Mr Ss income and had carried out a 
thorough assessment of his credit performance which included a review of Mr Ss credit file. 
They had noted the presence of some historical defaults but were satisfied that he was 
servicing the debt he had adequately and that the loans were both affordable for him at the 
time they were made. 
Our adjudicator didnt agree. She didnt think the business had carried out proportionate 
checks before making its lending decisions. She reviewed Mr Ss bank statements from the 
periods in question to see what the business would have found had they performed 
adequate checks. She didnt think she had enough information to suggest the first loan was 
unaffordable as Mr S hadnt been able to provide bank statements from that period. But she 
did think the evidence suggested Advantage should have realised the second loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr S. 
Advantage didnt agree. They said it was unreasonable to expect them to review bank 
statements on all the applications they reviewed and that they werent required to do so. 
They said Mr Ss credit performance in the 16 months preceding his second application had 
been good and that his credit score had improved as had his income level. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The credit assessment Advantage completed before Mr Ss first credit application in May 
2014 would have shown there had been several defaulted accounts in the past. But the 
search would also have shown that Mr S had defaulted on an account only ten months 
earlier. I think this should have triggered a more detailed analysis of Mr Ss expenditure and I 
therefore dont think Advantage completed proportionate checks on the first loan.
When Advantage reviewed the second loan application the account balances on the 
previous defaulted agreements had improved, no further accounts had been defaulted and 
Advantage were able to consider Mr Ss payment history on his first loan; which had been 
good. But this second agreement was for more money and there were still significant 
outstanding balances on defaulted accounts. I think, again, that Advantage should have dug 
deeper and reviewed Mr Ss expenditure in more detail. 
So, I dont think proportionate checks were completed for either loan.
I think it would have been proportionate for Advantage to have found out more about Mr Ss 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Advantage 
would have found out if it had asked. They didnt have to ask for bank statements to work 
this out but in the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant 
weight on the information contained in Mr Ss bank statements as to what would most likely 
have been disclosed. 
Mr S hasnt been able to supply bank statements for the period prior to taking out the first 
loan. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to suggest there is sufficient evidence that loan wasnt 
affordable.
But I have been able to review three months of bank statements leading up to the second 
lending decision (September 2015 loan). These show that Mr S was paying about £1,665 
towards his committed living expenditure including his rent, mobile phone bill, insurance, 
debt collection and a loan. Considering the income that Advantage verified at the time was 
about £2,055 this meant that Mr S had about £390 of disposable income from which he 
would need to make his monthly £264.29 payment as well as car and fuel expenses. I think 
that demonstrates that Mr S didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional 
borrowing. Advantage therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Advantage ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Mr S has made, including any deposit. However, Mr S did have use of the car 
for about ten months until he changed to a lower specification vehicle, so I think its fair he 
pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that monthly repayments of over £264 are a fair 
reflection of what fair usage would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments 
went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Ss likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr S should pay is £170 for 
each month he had use of the vehicle. This means Advantage can only ask Mr S to repay a total of £1,700. Anything Mr S has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ss complaint Advantage Finance Ltd should do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay;
Refund the deposit Mr S paid in advance of his second agreement and add 8% 
simple interest per year* from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
Refund all the payments Mr S has made, less £1,700 for fair usage; 
oIf Mr S has paid more than the fair usage figure, Advantage should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr S has paid less than the fair usage figure, Advantage should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Advantage has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage Finance Ltd to take off tax from this interest. 
Advantage Finance Ltd must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
Mr S asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Advantage Finance Ltd to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman