DRN-3251236
The complaint
Mrs W is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded an amount she paid on her 
debit card for a holiday.
What happened
Mrs W bought a holiday through a travel agent  who I shall refer to as F. The holiday was to 
take place in October 2019 and cost £900. She paid this in two instalments of £500 and 
£400 respectively on her Lloyds debit card.
Shortly before the holiday was due to take place F went into administration and her holiday 
was cancelled. Fs administrators wrote to all affected customers and advised them to 
explore chargeback through their card providers. Following this, Mrs W says she contacted 
Lloyds to raise a chargeback but she was told she needed to contact her travel insurance 
provider first.
On 23 February 2020 Mrs W sent a letter to Lloyds  by recorded delivery  asking it to raise 
the chargeback. In January 2021 Mrs W complained to Lloyds that she hadnt received a 
response. In May 2021 Mrs W called Lloyds again to complain she hadnt received a 
response to her complaint. Lloyds said it responded to say it didnt receive the letter she sent 
in February 2020 as it says it was sent to the wrong address. And it said it was now too late 
to raise a chargeback. Mrs W was unhappy with what Lloyds said and asked it to resend the 
letter it sent in response to her complaint. She says she still didnt receive this letter so 
referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said, even if Lloyds had received the letter 
in February 2020, Mrs W was still too late to raise the chargeback. She said the chargeback 
rules requires a claim to be raised within 120 days of the last date she expected to receive 
the service  which meant the claim needed to be raised by 9 February 2020. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator. She thought it was unfair Lloyds had told her to go 
to her insurer first and she says she did raise the claim with the insurer within 120 days. So 
she asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the relevant card scheme.
Mrs W is first unhappy that Lloyds told her she had to contact her insurer before the 
chargeback claim can be raised. But I dont think it was unfair Lloyds did so. Where a 
merchant has gone into administration  as F had in this case  the chargeback rules set out 
that the consumer has to firstly look to resolve the matter through the merchants bonding 
authority  which in this case would have been ATOL. I dont know for certain what Lloyds 
did tell her. But, at the time Mrs W raised the claim with Lloyds, she hadnt referred the 
matter to ATOL. So she wasnt eligible to raise a chargeback claim at that time.
Mrs W then contacted Lloyds again by letter to re-raise the chargeback claim and the letter 
was received in Lloyds offices on 26 February 2020. But the chargeback scheme rules are 
clear that any chargeback claim must be raised against the merchant within 120 days of the 
last date of expected service  which I understand to be 120 days from the last date of the 
holiday. Mrs W was due to return from holiday on 19 October 2019. So I think the 
chargeback claim needed to be raised against F by 16 February 2020. This means that, 
even if a chargeback had been processed, its unlikely to have succeeded because it would 
have been a valid defence under the rules that it had been brought too late. 
So, even if Lloyds should have acted on the letter Mrs W had sent, the outcome would still 
be the same. I appreciate Mrs W says she sent the claim as soon as she received the 
response from her insurer. But I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the length of time the 
insurer took to investigate the claim. And, while I do not dispute it would have been good 
customer service to do so, there wasnt any requirement to set out the timescales to raise a 
chargeback.
Mrs W has also complained that she didnt receive the letter in response to her complaint or 
again when she asked Lloyds to resend the letter. However, Im satisfied that, on balance, 
Lloyds did send the letter initially and I cant hold it responsible if it didnt arrive. I 
acknowledge Mrs W says she didnt receive the letter a second time. But I dont think shes 
lost out because of this as Lloyds had explained what it said on the telephone. So I dont 
think I can reasonably require Lloyds to compensate her for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman