DRN-3769980
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about Charles Stanley & Co Ltd. Theyre unhappy with a number of 
issues including the performance of their investments and how theyve been managed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G returned to the UK after living overseas and became discretionary clients of 
CS in 2017. CS assessed them as having a medium-low attitude to risk (ATR) with a 20% 
capacity for loss. They made a proposal based on Mr and Mrs Gs need to produce an 
income but said the level of income required wasnt achievable within Mr and Mrs Gs 
specified risk tolerance and would result in erosion of their capital. 
Mr and Mrs G accepted CS proposal and the discretionary service commenced. They raised 
concerns with CS in 2019 and formally complained in 2020. Their main points of complaint 
were, in summary:
They questioned why CS had arranged for a presentation and proposal by a financial 
planner whose suggestions had contradicted CS previous approach.
Theyd expected some fluctuation in values but not continuous losses. Theyd 
previously raised concerns about this issue but had been given assurances that it 
was just a short-term problem. 
There were too many funds held within their portfolio. And they questioned why when 
their overseas assets were sold and the currency converted, the money wasnt 
retained and used selectively to purchase assets based on market conditions. 
They questioned the charges incurred when purchasing and selling shares. They 
thought the cash reserve within the portfolio was inadequate and could only be 
sustained through selling existing holdings, often at a loss.
CS were made fully aware of their circumstances from the outset, if their capital had 
been invested in the correct selection of investments then their income requirements 
should have been achieved or exceeded. If this wasnt achievable then the funds 
should have been retained as cash or another secure option.
They wanted to know why investment trusts hadnt been considered as part of their 
portfolio.
CS investigated the concerns that had been raised, though they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong, they offered Mr and Mrs G £1,250 in compensation for the stress generated 
in the circumstances surrounding the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept CS findings and brought the complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt uphold it. He thought that CS had made it 
clear from the outset of the relationship that the portfolio wouldnt support the income 
requirements and there would have to be a drawdown of capital. This had been 
compounded by Mr and Mrs G not investing as much as originally planned due to a fall in the 
exchange rate. 
He didnt think that the portfolio manager had taken any decisions which werent in line with 
the agreed strategy. And he was satisfied that CS had clearly explained their charging 
structure and hadnt seen anything to suggest that theyd made unnecessary trades in order 
to generate charges.
He didnt think it was unreasonable that a financial adviser had joined a meeting Mr and Mrs 
G had with their portfolio manager in January 2020. He thought that as CS had concerns 
about the amount of cash that was being drawn down from the portfolio, it wasnt 
inappropriate to invite the adviser to the meeting. He didnt think the advisers 
recommendation to sell the portfolio to cash in order to meet the income requirements went 
against the approach CS were trying to adopt at the time. 
Hed considered the time taken to sell the portfolio down to cash but didnt think CS had 
acted inappropriately. He noted that Mr and Mrs G had sent CS a letter on 27 January 2020 
instructing them not to sell any shares. This restriction was lifted on 25 February but there 
was further communication between both parties until 28 April when the portfolio was sold 
down to cash. He didnt think it was inappropriate for CS to gain Mr and Mrs Gs consent and 
clarification on their wishes before they sold down the portfolio as such a decision wasnt in 
the agreed mandate.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with his findings and said, in summary:
The investigator hadnt analysed CS strategy or the performance of the funds theyd 
selected. Had he done so, the shortcomings in CS actions would have been 
apparent. They thought CS had failed in their duty to manage the portfolio and 
produce an income.
Theyd incurred unnecessary charges from the selling of shares and stamp duty due 
to the mismanagement of the portfolio.
They hadnt been made aware the financial adviser would be attending the meeting 
in January 2020 and hadnt had the opportunity to review his proposal prior to the 
meeting. His proposal to sell the investments and place the cash in a deposit account 
appeared to be designed to remove any responsibility from CS.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say that Ive summarised what I consider to be the key points of this 
complaint in much less detail than Mr and Mrs Gs submissions. I mean no discourtesy by 
this, and it simply reflects the informal role of this service. However, Id like to assure Mr and 
Mrs G that Ive read and considered all the points theyve made and all the available 
evidence before making my decision. Having considered everything, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld and I will now go on to explain why.
Ive firstly thought about the points Mr and Mrs G have made regarding the management of 
the portfolio. I appreciate their concerns about how the portfolio was managed, and their thoughts on how it could have been managed differently to potentially meet their income 
requirements without the need to draw down so much of their capital. With this in mind, Ive 
considered their circumstances and requirements at the time they entered into the 
discretionary agreement with CS. 
The information from the time shows that they were both retired and were looking to invest 
their available capital of around £230,000 in order to produce income of around £25,000 per 
annum. They were assessed as having a medium-low ATR which I dont think is 
unreasonable given their objectives, circumstances and investment experience (I appreciate 
the majority of their experience related to overseas investments, but I dont think this should 
be discounted). Their circumstances, especially Mr Gs poor health, meant that they didnt 
want to be involved in the day-to-day management of their portfolio.
From what Ive seen, the level of income they wanted was an issue. It was noted We 
discussed that your income needs are in excess of the natural income provided by the 
portfolio and you are aware of this, you will be seeking to drawdown capital to support your 
current standard of living. If the portfolio reaches a point where it is unlikely to meet your life 
expectancy then you can look to sell your property and either move into rented 
accommodation or downsize.
Despite this warning, Mr and Mrs G accepted CS proposal on how the portfolio would be 
managed. The proposed portfolio set out that it would be invested in around 30 different 
holdings split across the following asset classes - 23% fixed income, 37% UK equity, 20% 
international equity, 5% property, 13% alternatives and 2% cash. The proposal also 
highlighted that the annual yield would be around £11,000 which was some way below the 
£25,000 that Mr and Mrs G required. So, I think that Mr and Mrs G ought reasonably to have 
been aware that the proposed strategy meant that they would have to draw on their capital in 
order to meet their income requirements.
The situation was exacerbated by the reduction in the amount of capital Mr and Mrs G 
invested. They invested c.£180,000 instead of the c.£230,000 theyd originally planned to 
invest and the impact of this was that their portfolio would produce less income than 
anticipated. This meant that they would have to use up even more of their capital to provide 
the income they needed. 
I appreciate the concerns Mr and Mrs G have raised about the makeup of the portfolio. I 
think its important to note that my role is not to determine if CS proposal and subsequent 
asset selection were the most suitable options with the benefit of hindsight. Instead, it is to 
determine if, on balance, CS decisions were broadly suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances, in their best interest and in line with what had been agreed at the outset of 
the relationship. 
Ive considered the makeup of the portfolio and how it was run. Whilst the portfolio didnt 
perform as well as anticipated and could have been structured differently, I dont think how it 
was set up and run was unsuitable and outside of the mandate that had been agreed. The 
asset choices within the portfolio appear to have been influenced by the need to maximise 
income potential which corresponds with the mandate and the underlying asset mix didnt 
expose Mr and Mrs G to an unsuitable level of risk. 
It was clearly unfortunate that the portfolio didnt perform as expected, but this doesnt mean 
that CS were negligent. They didnt guarantee any rate of return and even though there were 
holdings which would have produced a better return, we only know this now with the benefit 
of hindsight and it is not reasonable to judge CS actions with the knowledge we now have. 
Ive thought about how quickly the capital was invested. I appreciate Mr and Mrs G think that a delayed, selective approach should have been taken but this wasnt set out in CS 
proposal. I think the need for income meant that the capital needed to be invested quickly in 
order to make a higher return than would be received from holding cash. So, I dont think CS 
have acted inappropriately by investing the funds as quickly as they did.
I appreciate that charges were incurred by the need to sell holdings to generate income. The 
need for income meant that the portfolio had to be invested in order to produce a return but 
given the poor performance of the portfolio, there was a need to sell more holdings than 
would have been anticipated. But I dont think it would be fair to say that this was the fault of 
CS as they were simply adhering to the proposal that Mr and Mrs G had agreed to.
Ive also thought about the points Mr and Mrs G have made about not being given prior 
notice of the advisers proposal. Having done so, I dont think CS have acted inappropriately. 
From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs G were under no obligation to accept the proposal and 
were given time to consider what hed said. I dont think that his proposal was designed to 
absolve CS of any responsibility and I think it needs to be considered in line with the position 
Mr and Mrs G found themselves in at the time. They were taking income at a rate which 
meant their portfolio would be completely drawn down much sooner than anticipated which 
would have a detrimental impact on their plans for the future. 
CS didnt have a mandate to liquidate the portfolio to cash in order to reduce Mr and Mrs Gs 
exposure to investment risk and preserve their remaining capital. Therefore, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for them to facilitate a discussion around Mr and Mrs Gs potential options 
such as moving to cash, releasing equity or downsizing their house. Having had the 
discussion, I think Mr and Mrs were in a more informed position than if it hadnt taken place, 
so Im not persuaded that CS have acted unfairly regarding this point.
So, in summary, Im not persuaded that CS have treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly and I wont 
be asking them to do anything else to resolve this complaint. Mr and Mrs G are free to 
accept CS offer of compensation if they wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman