DRN-2972310
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC suspended one of his accounts without prior 
notification.  
What happened
Mr G holds two credit accounts with Barclays. Mr G entered into discussions with Barclays 
regarding one of his accounts, which was classified as being in persistent debt. Mr G 
arranged a payment plan with Barclays on this account following an assessment of Mr Gs 
income and expenditure. However, when Barclays initiated the agreed payment plan, they 
also suspended Mr Gs other account. Mr G wasnt happy about this, especially as the 
suspension of his other account hadnt been discussed with him. So, he raised a complaint.
 
Barclays looked at Mr Gs complaint. They noted that the income and expenditure 
information provided by Mr G had demonstrated that he didnt have enough monthly 
disposable income to afford the minimum payment required by the persistent debt guidance, 
and that Barclays had to agree to a lower payment amount as a result. Because of this, 
Barclays felt that the suspension of Mr Gs other account was appropriate - to prevent Mr G 
falling further into debt - but they acknowledged that a discussion should have taken place 
with Mr G about this before the suspension took place. So, Barclays upheld Mr Gs 
complaint and apologised to him for any inconvenience he might have incurred.
 
Mr G didnt feel that Barclays response went far enough, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their correspondence with 
Barclays about this complaint, Barclays acknowledged that their response to Mr Gs 
complaint might not have gone far enough and offered to pay compensation to Mr G of £50, 
to be credited to the account of Mr Gs with the highest outstanding balance.
 
Following their review, our investigator also felt that the act of Barclays suspending Mr Gs 
other account was reasonable, given the circumstances, but agreed that Barclays should 
have communicated their intent to Mr G before initiating the suspension. Our investigator 
also felt that the offer of compensation payable as a credit to one of Mr Gs accounts 
represented a fair outcome to this complaint, and so they didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint on 
this basis.
 
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must have been upsetting for Mr G to have discovered that his other 
credit account had been suspended by Barclays, especially as hes received no notice from 
Barclays that this was an action they were considering.
 
Barclays have stated that Mr Gs account was suspended in line with their corporate policy 
of suspending any other accounts held by a customer when that customer is deemed as 
being unable to meet the minimum payment requirements of an account  as Mr G was in 
this instance, following the assessment of the income and expenditure information that he 
provided to Barclays.
 
Barclays position here seems reasonable to me, and it would be expected by this service 
that Barclays would have suspended Mr Gs other account in these circumstances. And I say 
this because Mr G had provided income and expenditure information to Barclays which 
demonstrated that he couldnt afford the minimum payments needed on his account. 
 
Because of this, its difficult not to conclude that it would have been remiss of Barclays  
having learned of Mr Gs difficult financial position as highlighted by the income and 
expenditure information he provided  to have allowed Mr Gs other account to continue 
unsuspended given that it was reasonable for Barclays to have concluded that Mr G wouldnt 
also have been able to afford the minimum payments required on that other account and 
therefore would have fallen further into debt.
 
However, while Im satisfied that a reasonable outcome was arrived at here, it would also 
have been expected that Barclays would have communicated this point to Mr G before 
initiating the suspension of his account. And Barclays have acknowledged this point 
themselves and offered £50 compensation to Mr G to be credited to one of Mr Gs accounts 
because of this.
 
This feels fair to me, and I consider that it provides reasonable compensation to Mr G for any 
inconvenience and distress that he may have incurred here. I also feel, given the substantial 
amount that Mr G currently owes to Barclays, that allowing the compensation payment to be 
applied by Barclays to reduce the outstanding balance on one of Mr Gs accounts is fair and 
reasonable in this instance. 
 
Finally, Ive taken onboard the comments that Mr G has raised with our investigator and I 
appreciate that Mr G felt distressed by his account being suspended. However, as 
mentioned above, given the circumstances here, Im satisfied that Barclays offer represents 
reasonable compensation to Mr G for what took place, and I can confirm that this level of 
compensation is commensurate with what this service would expect.
 
Additionally, while I note that Mr G feels that Barclays took a long time to respond formally to 
his complaint, it appears from the information I have available to me that Barclays did 
respond to Mr Gs complaint within the eight-week timeframe stipulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr G was wanting here, but it follows form all the 
above that Ill be upholding this complaint on the basis that Barclays have already agreed to 
in their correspondence with our investigator - such that my only instruction to Barclays will 
be that they have to make a payment of £50 to Mr G, payable as a credit towards the 
outstanding balance on one of Mr Gs accounts. 
 
I hope that Mr G can understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
  
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment to Mr G of £50, payable as a credit towards the outstanding 
balance on one of Mr Gs accounts.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman