DRN-4480004
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with N.I.I.B. 
Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 28 July 2022, Mrs K was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Northridge. She paid an advance payment of £1,000 and the agreement was for £9,236 
over 60 months; with 59 monthly payments of £189.59 and a final payment of £199.59. At 
the time of supply, the car was around three and a half years old and had done 62,151 
miles.
Mrs K experienced an issue with the clutch in early August 2022, and she says the car was 
returned to the dealership for repair. However, the car broke down again in September 2022 
due to an issue with the diesel pump and timing chain. Mrs K complained to Northridge, and 
then brought matters to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Northridge hadnt provided anything to show that the fault with the 
car wasnt present or developing at the point of supply. So, the investigator said the car 
wasnt of a satisfactory quality. And, as the supplying dealership had already had the chance 
to repair the car, and it was still faulty, Mrs K should now be allowed to reject it.
So, the investigator recommended that Northridge end the agreement and take back the car, 
refund the deposit Mrs K made, as well as all payments since September 2022 when she 
stopped using the car, and pay her an additional £300 for the trouble, upset, and 
inconvenience shed been caused.
Mrs K provided further evidence about the faults with the car, and Northridge said the 
dealership hadnt repaired the clutch in August 2022. However, the investigator didnt think 
this changed her opinion, and issued a revised view stating this.
Northridge didnt respond to the investigators revised view, and Mrs K asked if the two 
payments she made at the beginning of the agreement could also be refunded. Given this, 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs K was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Northridge are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Northridge can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mrs K to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs K took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Northridge to put this right.
Mrs K has said there was a fault with the clutch that the supplying dealership fixed in August 
2022, at the second attempt. However, Ive noted that the dealership has subsequently told 
Northridge they hadnt done any work on the car. Mrs K hasnt been able to provide any 
worksheets to show any work being done on the clutch, and the dealership havent provided 
anything. Given this, I cant say for definite whether there was a fault with the clutch that was 
repaired or not.
However, I have seen a report from a breakdown company dated 22 September 2022, 
following the engine cutting out and Mrs K being unable to drive the car. This report confirms 
the mileage at the time was 64,452 and it also says, suspect cam / fuel injection timing 
incorrect and the car was recovered to an accredited garage.
Ive also seen an email from the accredited garage, confirming what work was done. This 
email says:
This vehicle was recovered to us with a failure to the High pressure fuel pump. This 
was changed but on stripping down the vehicle as still further issue we discovered 
timing chain had in fact snapped which required changing.
The garage goes on to explain this isnt covered by the warranty, as the overall costs of the 
repairs exceeds the amount of warranty cover. Mrs K hasnt had the car repaired, and it 
remains undrivable. The publicly available records show that the car is subject to a SORN, 
and the existing MOT expired on 7 March 2023, and hasnt been renewed. Both of these 
back up the fact that the car isnt being used.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a fault with the car, regardless of 
any fault that may or may not have existed with the clutch. And this fault manifested itself 
within six months of the car being supplied to Mrs K. So, as per the CRA, its for Northridge 
to show that the fault wasnt present or developing at the point of supply.Given that the car is off the road, its been available for inspection at any point since 22 
September 2022. However, Northridge have chosen not to have the car independently 
inspected, an inspection that would offer an opinion of whether the faults with the diesel 
pump and timing chain were present or developing at the point of supply. Whats more, 
Northridge have offered no alternative evidence in relation to these faults.
As theres no evidence of the clutch fault (which Mrs K says was repaired anyway), and the 
diesel pump issue has been fixed, Ive considered the problem with the timing chain. Based 
on what Ive seen, it would be expected for a timing chain on the make and model of car 
supplied to Mrs K to last for around 10 years, and between 80,000 and 150,000 miles. As 
the car was less than four years old, and had done less than 65,000 miles, at the time of the 
breakdown; Im satisfied the timing chain failed sooner than could be reasonably expected. 
As such, it wasnt sufficiently durable.
Given the above, Im also satisfied that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied 
to Mrs K.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. 
However, Section 23(2)(a) of the CRA states:
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must 
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer
Given that Northridge dont accept the single chance at repair took place in August 2023, 
when the dealership supposedly fixed the clutch issue, then they could argue they still have 
the single chance at repair under section 24(5) of the CRA. However, as the fault occurred in 
September 2022, and Northridge havent attempted this single chance of repair more than a 
year later, its arguable theyve failed to comply with Section 23(2)(a) of the CRA. And, in 
these circumstances, Mrs K should be able to reject the car.
As such, Northridge need to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
Mrs K was able to use the car while it was in her possession, and before the breakdown on 
22 September 2022. Because of this, I think its only fair that she pays for this usage. So, I 
wont be asking Northridge to refund the first two payments shes made.
However, the car has been off the road and undrivable since 22 September 2022. And Mrs K 
hasnt been supplied with a courtesy car. As such, she was paying for goods she was unable 
to use. As, for the reasons already stated, Im satisfied the car was off the road due to it 
being of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, and as Northridge failed to keep Mrs 
K mobile; Im satisfied they should refund any payments shes made since this date.
Finally, its clear that Mrs K has been significantly inconvenienced by whats happened. So, I 
think Northridge should compensate her for this. The investigator recommended Northridge 
pay her £300, which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been 
made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, Northridge should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;collect the car at no cost to Mrs K;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mrs Ks credit file;
refund the £1,000 deposit Mrs K paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of funds 
paid through a dealer contribution, Northridge is entitled to retain that proportion of 
the deposit);
refund any payments Mrs K made on or after 22 September 2022;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mrs K made 
the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mrs K an additional £300 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Northridge to take off tax from this interest. Northridge 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint about N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading 
as Northridge Finance. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman