DRN-3639757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Vitality Health Limited has incorrectly deducted an 
excess. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a private medical insurance policy with Vitality which renews in October 
each year. 
In 2021, Mr and Mrs F called Vitality to make changes to their policy - they changed their 
excess from per person per plan year to per claim. This reduced their premiums.
Mr F made a claim in 2020 for which he paid a £250 excess. 
In August 2021, Mr F made a claim for knee pain. He had an appointment after the renewal 
date in October for which Vitality said a £250 excess was payable. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt think the excess should be applied as the knee problem and claim all 
began before the renewal date.
Mrs F complained to Vitality and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Vitality had acted unfairly.
Mrs F disagreed and said she didnt think an excess should be payable for an existing claim 
when going into a new year.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy confirms how long the plan lasts. It says:
Personal Healthcare is an annual insurance contract which means that the 
premiums, benefits, terms and conditions last for one year at a time, and can change 
at each annual renewal date.
The policy terms set out when an excess becomes payable under the heading important 
information about your cover and excesses. It says:
Any excess due under your plan will show on your certificate of insurance. An 
excess can be payable either per claim or per person per plan year and your 
certificate of insurance will show you which one applies. 
If you have a per claim excess, we will deduct the excess from the first invoice we 
pay (and the next invoice if any excess still remains). We will reapply the excess if 
your claim continues for more than one year. 
If you have a per person per plan year excess we will deduct the excess from the 
first invoice for treatment taking place in the plan year (and the next invoice if any 
excess still remains).
The definitions section also confirms when an excess applies as follows:
Excess  per claim
The maximum amount you will have to pay each time you or your insured 
dependents make a new claim for treatment covered by this plan. If treatment for the 
same condition has gone on for more than a year, we will treat it as a new claim for 
any further treatment after the anniversary of the claim and a further excess will be 
applied. 
Excess  per plan yearThe first amount which must be paid by you before we 
make payment under this plan for treatment covered by this plan. Only one excess is 
payable in each plan year for each insured person. This excess resets at the 
beginning of each new plan year. 
Mr F had treatment in October 2021 and so based on the above terms, Vitality deducted a 
£250 excess. I dont think Vitality made a mistake as the terms are clear that the excess will 
be charged in this way. 
Mrs F has suggested that as the treatment started before the renewal date and the treatment 
hadnt gone on for more than a year, it shouldnt be treated as a new claim. But I dont think 
thats fair or reasonable as Mr and Mrs F would effectively continue to be covered for a lower 
premium but without having to pay an excess. And thats not how the policy works. 
After the renewal date, Mr and Mrs F would always have to pay £250 excess per claim as it 
would be a new policy year and a new contract for that year, regardless of when the initial 
treatment began. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F but Im satisfied that Vitality has correctly deducted the 
excess in line with the policy terms and conditions, so I wont be asking it to refund anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman