DRN-1544331
The complaint
Mr F says Connells Limited mis-sold him mortgage Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
cover when he was taking out a mortgage in 2002.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr F with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr F disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint.
Mr F says he was told he had to take out the PPI in order to get his mortgage approved. 
However, whilst I dont doubt Mr F genuinely believes now that he was mis-sold this type of 
cover, I do need to also consider that the sale was around 18 years ago. As such, very little 
of the original documentation is left to refer to although this isnt really surprising and its not 
unreasonable either. Businesses dont need to keep records indefinitely.
Because theres nothing else to support Mr Fs allegation about the policy being portrayed as 
compulsory, Im only able to decide what is more likely to have happened. I see, for 
example, this PPI cover was actually free for the first 6 months. And I think its quite unlikely 
that a policy that was evidently portrayed as compulsory would be offered on such a basis; I 
think if Mr F was told he had no choice, he would also have been charged the full premium.
However, Mr F was given a policy schedule and letter explaining hed made the application 
and we do still have access to these. Theres nothing on either to say its a compulsory 
policy and the letter talks about him having applied to have it. The initial cost is also shown 
as being £0.00 for 6 months.
On the basis of no other evidence therefore, I think this makes it much more likely that there 
was a discussion about the PPI cover and that Mr F was attracted to having the free offer for 
6 months. The schedule also pointed out that after the free offer period, he would start to be 
charged £20 per month. I think it would have been fairly obvious that Mr F could have 
cancelled the PPI in February 2003 when the incentive period ended. In short, I think Mr Fs 
consent was probably obtained by Connells.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr F because Connells probably 
recommended it to him as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable.
I say this because he seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He may well already have had some 
sickness protection with his job but Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt 
of use. I think the mortgage would have been a significant and long-term financial 
commitment and secured against his home and so the consequences of not being able to 
make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was 
designed to pay a substantial monthly sum for up to 12 months if hed needed to claim. So 
Connells putting forward a recommendation to have cover wasnt unfair.
Connells also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. As I 
say, we no longer have the actual application paperwork in respect of Mr F, but I can see 
from the schedule that he would have known what the cover was costing and what 
elements of insurance he had agreed to. I think he probably had enough information on 
which to make an informed choice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F. But these events are from a long time ago and to uphold his 
complaint Id need to think it was more likely he never gave his proper consent or that there 
were other major flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and I dont direct Connells 
Limited to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman