The complaint
Miss P complains that Lloyds Bank Plc lent irresponsibly to her by allowing her overdraft to 
be increased significantly over short period. She would like charges and interest to be 
reimbursed.
What happened
Miss P had a current account with Lloyds. She made an application via her online banking 
for an overdraft on the account in 2014. Multiple online applications were made and 
approved, increasing the overdraft limit from £250 to £3,000 by May 2016. During this period 
Miss P says she was gambling and was using pay day loans and credit cards as a 
consequence of this. Miss P says she opened an account with another bank in June 2016 as 
she was concerned Lloyds would reduce the overdraft and swallow her salary. 
Miss P says Lloyds was lending irresponsibly in allowing her debts to increase when it 
should have known from her account transactions that she was gambling large amounts and 
was relying on pay day loans. She complained to Lloyds but it didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said it didnt know about Miss Ps problem with gambling. It had relied on the information 
Miss P had provided in the online applications and on credit scoring which hadnt shown 
cause for concern so it hadnt made an error.
Miss P referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. He didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said Lloyds had acted reasonably in approving the overdrafts at 
the time. He said it had done the checks it would normally carry out and these hadnt given 
any reason to think the increases werent suitable. He said he didnt think Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in not linking the expenditure around gambling to the overdraft increases.
Miss P didnt agree. She said Lloyds cant have done any checks as in one month before the 
overdraft was increased in 2015 she was taking pay day loans whilst using the account for 
over £6,000 in gambling transactions.
As Miss P doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so I am not upholding the 
complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Miss P but I need to consider whether Lloyds has acted 
fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the account, as well 
as the law and industry good practice in its dealings with her and I think it has.
DRN-1649369The overdraft applications were made online and asked Miss P to provide certain details. 
Lloyds sought credit reference information and could see from the account that Miss P was 
in receipt of a regular and increasing salary through the period that the overdrafts were 
approved. Significant payments were also being made to and from the account regularly. 
It does appear Miss P was conducting the account well throughout the period by staying 
within limits and managing her payments. In these circumstances dont think there was any 
reason for Lloyds to either make extra checks on the account or question her about her 
finances during this period. I understand that keeping on top of everything would have been 
stressful for Miss P and for many people becomes unsustainable. But in this period Miss P 
was clearly able to continue to obtain credit and open accounts with other lenders and banks 
as well as from Lloyds. 
The overdraft limits she requested were not excessive relative to her salary at the time. And 
she was able to clear the overdrawn balance the following year for a period and she did 
make regular payments in and out of the account. I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in approving Miss Ps requests for increases to the overdraft limit so I wont be 
asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman