DRN-3494905
The complaint
Ms T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused to refund her for transactions she 
says she didnt make.
What happened
On 27 January 2020 a payment was made from Ms Ts account to a company that Ill call A. 
Over the following 18 months, a further 53 payments were made to A as well as other 
payments to a mobile phone provider and online retailers. In July 2021 Ms T contacted 
Barclays to say that she didnt recognise these transactions  around 70 in total  and that 
she hadnt authorised them.
Barclays told Ms T that due to the volume of transactions she was disputing, she would need 
to raise several different fraud claims, and Ms T did so, this resulted in 11 separate fraud 
claims being raised. For some of these claims Barclays refunded the disputed funds while it 
looked into what had happened.
After completing its investigation into Ms Ts claims, Barclays contacted her to say that it 
would not be refunding the disputed amounts to her. It said this was because A had provided 
evidence she held an account with it, and her correct personal information was used to 
complete the transactions. Ms T was unhappy with Barclays response, she was also 
unhappy with the way her claims had been handled. Specifically, she was unhappy with how 
shed been spoken to on the phone, the information shed been given about why some 
payments had been refunded while Barclays looked into things and others had not, and an 
incorrect phone number Barclays had given her in one of its letters. Barclays had already 
offered Ms T £50 for the poor service shed received, but didnt think it had done anything 
else wrong, so as no agreement could be reached Ms T referred her complaint to us.
Since then, Barclays has made the decision to close Ms Ts account.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, they agreed that the service Ms T 
had been given was poor and so recommended that Barclays pay her a further £100. But 
overall, the investigator was not satisfied there was clear evidence that the transactions were 
fraudulent. Ms T disagreed, so her complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Ms T is responsible for any payments that she has authorised and she isnt responsible for 
unauthorised payments. So Ive considered whether or not the evidence shows that Ms T 
authorised the payments. I recognise that Ms T has said categorically that she didnt 
authorise these payments. But Ive had to look at what the available evidence showed 
Barclays, to decide whether or not Barclays acted unfairly when it refused a refund. 
The disputed payments were to six different companies. 
All of the payments made to the mobile phone company seem to have been refunded, and it 
appears this is because Barclays received no evidence to support that these payments were 
made legitimately by Ms T.
There were also five individual payments to four different companies. Barclays has 
confirmed that it is holding Ms T liable for payments to three of these companies as the 
payments were made from IP addresses which match IP addresses Ms T has logged into 
her mobile banking from. To explain, an IP address is a string of numbers which is tied to the 
physical location of the computer network being used. I think its unlikely that a fraudster 
would be using the same local computer network (this could be her home internet router or 
similar) as Ms T. Ive seen the mobile banking logs from Barclays which show the IP 
addresses Ms T has previously made payments and transfers from, and this matches the IP 
addresses that Barclays has said the payments were made from. So Im satisfied that the 
evidence available suggests these payments were more likely than not authorised by Ms T. 
The remaining amount  consisting of two payments of £12.66 to one company  hasnt 
been specifically mentioned by Barclays in its correspondence. But I can see that the 
refunds given to Ms T already are adequate to cover this amount, so I can only presume that 
this has also been refunded to Ms T as no evidence was received to show she had 
authorised this payment.
The majority of the disputed payments are to A. During its investigation Barclays contacted A 
to ask it for evidence that the payments were authorised. A responded with evidence to 
suggest that Ms Ts address and card details had been used to make the payments. 
Barclays has also noted that the transactions were made using multiple cards and that no 
explanation has been given as to how a fraudster could have got hold of Ms Ts card details 
on several different occasions. Barclays has also noted that the disputed payments cover a 
period of over a year, and that throughout this time Ms T was regularly viewing her account 
on her mobile banking app, so Barclays has questioned why it took so long for Ms T to 
notice these payments.
Ms T has said that she thinks her email and social media accounts have been compromised, 
shes given us evidence to show that people have tried to access her account from abroad to 
support this. But even so, I dont see how having access to Ms Ts emails and social media 
would give a fraudster all the information they would need to use her card.
Ms T has also said that because the transactions were generally small, she simply didnt 
notice them until she went over her accounts in more detail in 2021. But even though the 
payments were generally below £15, I think the sheer volume of payments (up to ten in one 
month), and the fact that on occasion these payments used up the bulk of the funds in her 
account, would have meant they were nonetheless fairly noticeable.
As noted by our investigator, Barclays hasnt been able to provide us with all the technical 
evidence we would usually ask for when looking into this kind of complaint. But nonetheless, 
with what I have seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to have concluded that 
Ms T authorised the transactions. It follows that Barclays is entitled to hold her liable for 
them.
I do though agree that the service Ms T has been given here could have been better, she 
says she was given unclear information about the refunds, and Barclays responses to her 
didnt fully address all the disputed payments, I also agree that Barclays could have been more mindful of Ms Ts personal circumstances when it decided to close her account. But 
our investigator recommended that Barclays pay Ms T an additional £100 on top of the £50 it 
has already paid her, and Barclays has agreed to make this payment. Im satisfied that is a 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Ms T, but for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Ms T 
£100 as detailed above, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman