DRN-2875141
The complaint
Mr B complains PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
  
What happened
 Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partly upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr B took five instalment loans between February 2019 and January 2020. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £200 06/02/2019 05/03/2019
2 £200 09/03/2019 24/05/2019
3 £500 12/06/2019 22/11/2019
4 £500 11/01/2020 15/01/2020
5 £1,000 29/01/2020 27/05/2020
When Mr Lender responded to Mr Bs complaint it offered to remove any adverse
information about his loans from his credit file and to give him a £50 voucher. This offer was
withdrawn when Mr B referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Mr Lender to have granted the loans. Although
she thought Mr Lender should have built up a more detailed a picture of Mr Bs finances for
the later loans, from the information that has been provided at the time, she didnt think it
was wrong to lend.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators findings. He feels that Mr Lender ought to have known
he couldnt afford to borrow because of the amount of loans he had with other companies.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
Since our adjudicators assessment, Mr B has been able to provide this service with some
bank statements and as outlined below Ive considered these where I think it is fair to do so.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his instalment
loans  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able
to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulator) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
loans 1, 2 and 3
Loans 1 and 2 (both £200) were due to be repaid through three monthly instalments, with a
highest repayment of around £139. Loan 3 (£500) was lent almost three weeks after loan 2
was repaid and was due to be repaid over six instalments, the highest being around £247.
Mr B declared an income of £1,700 for loans 1 and 2 and £1,619 for loan 3. For monthly
expenditure for housing, utilities, food/travel, phone, council tax, loans (including short term
loans) and other commitments he declared £1,000 (loan 1), £1,410 (loan 2) and £912 (loan
3).
Mr Lender also carried out a credit check for each loan which didnt seem to reveal anysignificant adverse information. And Mr B didnt seem to have any difficulties repaying his Mr
Lender loans that might have prompted further checks.
Considering the level of lending and it being early in the lending relationship, I think the
checks for these three loans went far enough. And based on the checks Mr Lender
completed Im satisfied that each loan wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable.
I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Mr Lender knew about Mr B, that meant it needed to verify the information declared.
So, I dont think that it could or should have known that Mr B may have been having financial
difficulties at the time.
Overall, I dont think that Mr Lender was wrong to lend loans 1, 2 or 3.
loans 4 and 5
I agree with the adjudicator that by loan 4 Mr Lender should have completed further checks.
I appreciate there was a gap of around seven weeks following repayment of loan 3. But loan
4 was the second time Mr B had taken quite a high loan (£500) in relation to his declared
income (£1,900) and hed already been indebted to Mr Lender for over eight months. And
the term of loan 4, nine months, potentially extended Mr Bs indebtedness considerably.
Mr B repaid loan 4 two weeks after it had been taken out and then not long after borrowed
twice as much when loan 5 (£1,000) was lent over 12 months.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable of Mr Lender to have relied on what Mr B declared.
Instead I think in these circumstances it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Bs actual
financial position to ensure loans 4 and 5 were affordable and the repayments of around
£185 and £203 could be repaid sustainably. This couldve been done in several ways, such
as asking for evidence of outgoings or reviewing bank statements and / or Mr Bs credit
report, which is what Ive done here. This might have helped verify information provided and
revealed whether there was any other information that Mr Lender ought to have considered
about Mr Bs general financial position.
From what I can see Mr B was borrowing from another short-term lender. He had two loans
outstanding with this lender when both loans 4 and 5 were lent. Mr B also appeared to be
using a revolving credit facility with a different lender. These loans on their own though, may
not have been sufficient to say that Mr Lender shouldnt have lent.
Mr Bs credit report also reveals that he had a defaulted account in 2014 and another in
2016. There is a further default shortly before loan 4 was taken out, although this wouldnt
necessarily have been reported to credit reference agencies straight away, so may not have
appeared at the time.
Mr Bs bank statements also reveal other signs that he was having problems managing his
money. I think proportionate checks wouldve shown that he was spending a significant
proportion of his income on betting which between October and December 2019 ranged
between around 50% and 100% of his actual income. I appreciate Mr Lender appear to have
asked Mr B whether the loans would be spent on gambling transactions. I think, though, that
a proportionate full review of his finances wouldve verified the actual position of his finances
- that he was mostly likely having problems managing his money.
Considering everything together, I think there was a significant risk that Mr B wouldnt be
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, when loans 4 and
5 were lent, I think it was unlikely Mr B wouldve been able to sustainably repay them.
So, Im intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Ive set out whatMr Lender should do to put things right as detailed below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has told us he agrees with the provisional decision and he doesnt have any further 
comments or evidence he wants this service to consider.  
Mr Lender didnt agree with the outcome reached in the provisional decision. In response, it 
made a number of points, in summary it said;
Loan 4 was an instalment loan, so would be repaid over a number of months. And 
because interest is only charged on outstanding capital, the longer the loan 
progressed, the smaller the monthly repayments would been. Meaning, Mr B 
wouldve had more monthly disposable income, towards the end of the loan term.
Mr Lenders own credit checks showed that Mr B didnt have any outstanding short-
term loans when loans 4 and 5 were approved. There were also no other signs in the 
credit report that ought to have suggested to Mr Lender that it needed to carry out 
further checks.  
Ive considered Mr Lenders comments, but I dont think, in this case, it makes any difference 
to the outcome. Mainly because, the reason the case was upheld, was that in my Mr 
Lenders checks hadnt gone far enough for loans 4 and 5. And had it carried out better 
checks, it wouldve seen that Mr B couldnt take on these loans, due to the amount he was 
spending on betting websites, which had been increasing, until December 2019 where it 
seems he was spending close to his income in this way. 
The fact that the way the loan was structed in the way Mr Lender has described meant Mr B 
wouldve likely had (from the information Mr Lender had) more disposable income each 
month, doesnt actually take into account that a proportionate check wouldve highlighted the 
betting websites Mr B was using.  So, the fact that Mr B may have had more disposable 
income each month the longer the loans ran isnt in my view sufficient to not uphold the 
complaint.
Although, Mr Lenders own credit checks didnt show any outstanding short-term loans or 
other adverse credit file data, a proportionate check may have highlighted this. This is 
because the loan may not have been added to his credit file when Mr Lender ran the check. 
But, for the reasons Ive outlined in the provisional decision the sight of another short-term 
loan was only one of the reasons why the case was partial upheld. 
In addition, the fact the credit check didnt show any signs of other financial difficulties, 
seems to ignore the fact what Mr Lender knew about Mr B as well as the context of his 
borrowing up to this point. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in the 
provisional decision about the types of check Mr Lender ought to have done before loans 4 
and 5 were granted. 
 
Mr Lender needed to do more for these loans, apart from relying on what it was being told by 
Mr B, and had it done further checks, which is what I think it needed to do, it wouldve seen 
Mr B couldnt sustainably, take on these loans. 
I therefore see no reason to depart from the findings I made in the provisional decision, so I 
still think Mr Lender was wrong to have approved loans 4 and 5 and Ive outlined below what 
it needs to do to put things right.  Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B from loan four, as Im satisfied it ought
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
In order to put things right Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained as well as in the provisional decision, Im partly upholding 
Mr Bs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should put things right for Mr B as Ive outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman