DRN-3819480
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his current account and 
loan without any notice. This led to both accounts being defaulted and this having a negative 
impact on his credit score.
 
What happened
On 11 February 2021 NatWest sent Mr D notification via text that his current account and 
loan would be closed. 
Mr D says he attempted to contact NatWest to discuss this, but no one would tell him what 
was going on and just advised him to wait for a letter in the post. He received the letter 
explaining his facilities had been removed and his account would be closed within seven 
days. But by that point hed been unable to access his account since 11 February, so he 
assumed his account had been closed on that date. 
Mr Ds credit report shows he was able to open another bank account. However, hes 
explained that without access to his account he wasnt easily able to find out information 
about his direct debits to ensure they were moved and paid correctly. 
NatWest wrote to Mr D on 23 February 2021 explaining that the seven-day notice period had 
expired, and his accounts had now been closed. It explained that he would now need to 
repay the outstanding amounts on his accounts within 28 days or information may be 
reported to the credit reference agencies. 
On the same date NatWest also sent a default notice for his loan and overdraft, explaining 
he would need to pay the full balances or risk information being reported to the credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr D says he continued to try and contact NatWest explaining that he wanted to discuss the 
possibility of repaying his loan in instalments again, as even though he was still struggling 
financially due to the pandemic, things were improving so this would be possible. Mr Ds 
representative has tried to obtain Mr Ds phone records from the time but has been unable to 
get these. 
Mr D has explained that because him and his wife are self-employed, they were hit hard by 
the Covid-19 pandemic and were struggling financially. So, in December 2020 Mr D was 
successfully granted a three-month payment holiday on his loan. Despite this, he says 
NatWest were sending him letters to say he had missed payments. 
Overall, he says he found it difficult to speak to anyone at the bank as he kept being passed 
from department to department. 
In April 2021 Mr Ds accounts were passed to a debt collector who I shall refer to as W. It 
was at this point he spoke to someone about the money owed and came to an arrangement 
he could afford, paying £170 a month towards the loan and overdraft combined. 
His loan was subsequently defaulted on 31 May 2021 and the overdraft on 30 June 2021. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He explained that he wasnt satisfied NatWest had 
shown us it had the basis to close the loan account or close the current account without 
notice. He also didnt think NatWest should have recorded late payments against Mr Ds loan 
whilst he was on a payment holiday. As a result, he recommended NatWest remove the 
default and late payment markers against the loan. However, he thought the default against 
the overdraft was correct as an overdraft is repayable on demand and Mr D couldnt afford to 
repay this. He recommended £200 for the trouble and upset caused by NatWests failings. 
NatWest disagreed. It said it still believed it was correct to close the loan and current 
account immediately. 
Mr D also disagreed. His representative has said Mr D isnt concerned with the 
compensation but thinks the overdraft default should be removed. Hes explained that 
although Mr D received the letters about the overdraft being removed, they didnt include any 
way to actually make a payment. And he wasnt able to get through to NatWest when he 
tried to call. Hes also said that although Mr D spoke with W, that was a very simple 
conversation about starting a repayment plan and no mention was made about paying the 
overdraft back in full. Hes said that had Mr D known how to make the payment he would 
have tried to borrow the money from family or friends or applied for a loan elsewhere. 
Because Mr D and NatWest have disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts
being closed. If NatWest didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
However, if NatWest chooses to close an account it should be done in line with the terms 
and conditions. And having closely reviewed the information NatWest has provided, Im not 
persuaded it has provided sufficient reasons or evidence to justify the immediate closure of 
the current account or closure of the loan in line with the terms and conditions. 
Loan
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds loan are clear in that it can only be closed early for a 
specific set of reasons. Having reviewed NatWests reasons for closing the loan early, Im 
not persuaded it had the basis to do so. 
Mr D has provided evidence that he was on a three-month payment holiday beginning in 
December 2020. He was up to date with his payments at that point but was finding things 
difficult due to the pandemic. As per the email he received from NatWest confirming his 
payment holiday, he was due to be contacted by NatWest towards the end of the three 
months to discuss his options, with it being possible for his loan term to be extended. Had 
NatWest not incorrectly closed his loan, I would have expected this conversation to take 
place. 
We will never know for sure what would have happened at that point but considering Mr D 
was not in arrears before his payment holiday commenced and was then able to agree a £170 repayment plan in May 2021  only £8.85 short of is contractual monthly repayments  
it seems fair to conclude he may have been able to return to his contractual repayments and 
continue to pay his loan in line with the terms. 
Given this, Im satisfied on balance that Mr Ds loan wouldnt have defaulted at that point. 
And given hes maintained his payments since, would have continued as normal. 
Im also satisfied adverse information shouldnt have been reported when Mr D was on his 
payment holiday between December 2020 and April 2021, in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) guidance released at the time. 
Current account
I will start by explaining that whilst NatWests notification of closure said it would close the 
account in seven days, I would still class this as an immediate closure. I say this because 
whilst the account may have remained open for seven days, Mr D wasnt able to use or 
access it during this time. And in any event, seven days notice isnt inline with the notice 
period specified in the terms and conditions.  
There are specific terms which allow NatWest to close a current account immediately. And, 
as with the loan, Im not satisfied NatWest has provided enough information for me to 
conclude it had sufficient basis to do this in Mr Ds case. So, compensation is warranted for 
the inconvenience caused by the immediate closure. 
In relation to the overdraft, the terms and conditions state that Mr Ds overdraft is repayable 
on demand, meaning he can be asked to repay it in full at any time. And this is regardless of 
whether the account is closed or not. NatWest was therefore entitled to recall the overdraft 
and hasnt made an error in doing so. 
Mr D thinks NatWest should remove the default in relation to his overdraft. However, I cant 
agree. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr Ds rep said Mr D would have been able to repay 
the overdraft, but NatWest didnt properly inform him that he needed to repay it or a default 
would be registered. However, Im satisfied Mr D knew about the removal of the overdraft 
and the consequences of not repaying it in full as he received several letters from NatWest 
detailing this. 
I appreciate Mr D says he struggled to get in touch with NatWest to discuss repayment  for 
which I have given him the benefit of the doubt - and when speaking to W it wasnt made 
clear hed need to pay the full amount of the overdraft. But as mentioned above, he had 
already received the letters detailing this so would have been aware of the consequences of 
not doing so. 
But in any event, even if I was to conclude NatWest could have done more to notify Mr D of 
how to make the payment, Im not satisfied he would have been able to repay his overdraft 
in full or offer enough to prevent a default. 
Mr D has admitted that due to the pandemic he was in financial difficulties when his account 
was closed, so much so that he needed a payment holiday on his loan. And was then only 
able to agree to £170 a month to cover both the loan and overdraft debt in May 2021 when 
discussing this with W. So, whilst Ive concluded he would have been able to afford his loan 
payments based on that figure, Im not persuaded he would have been able to offer enough 
to clear the overdraft too. Mr Ds representative has explained that Mr D may have been able 
to borrow money from friends and family to repay the overdraft, but Ive not seen anything to convince me this would have been possible. Nor can I be satisfied, given Mr Ds financial 
situation at the time, he would have been able to successfully borrow money from another 
lender. 
Given this, I think its correct for the default to remain on Mr Ds credit report. 
Compensation 
I agree with the investigator that Mr D should receive compensation for the impact NatWests 
errors had on him. 
Mr Ds loan should not have been closed at all and this was understandably very stressful, 
especially as he couldnt get through to anyone at NatWest to discuss this with. Plus, he 
should have had notice of his current account closure to allow him more time to open an 
account elsewhere and get his affairs in order. As it was, Im pleased to see he was able to 
open a new account, so this did limit the impact. But I still feel the £200 recommended by the 
investigator is fair. 
When considering this figure, Ive also thought about the impact the loan default had on Mr 
Ds credit rating. But given Ive concluded the overdraft default should remain; Im satisfied 
his rating would always have been impacted. 
Putting things right
NatWest should remove the default and late payment markers recorded against Mr D in 
relation to his loan and ensure no further adverse information is recorded should he maintain 
his current agreed repayments. 
NatWest should pay Mr D £200 for the trouble and upset caused by closing his loan and not 
giving him notice of his current account closure. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ds complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman