DRN-3106664
The complaint
 Mr B has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) allowed him to go into 
unarranged overdraft and charged him disproportionate amounts when he was in financial 
difficulty.
What happened
 Mr B complained to Santander that it was unfair to allow his account to become overdrawn 
and charge him excessive fees when he was in financial difficulty. Santander didnt uphold 
the complaint. And as Mr B was dis-satisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty by 1 December 2018 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander disagreed, it says that all charges were applied correctly and in-line with the 
terms and conditions of the account and that Mr B hadnt notified it of being in financial 
difficulty.  So the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft and associated fees on Mr Bs account from 1 
December 2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr B was in financial difficulty 
and allowing Mr Bs account to become overdrawn and charging fees for this would further 
exacerbate this. 
By this point, it was clear that Mr B was having difficulty managing his money. Mr Bs 
statements show that he had a number of returned direct debits or paid item fees and he 
was making payments to multiple payday and other high-cost lenders. In these 
circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Mr B was at a significant risk of 
experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with forbearance rather 
than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to his account. 
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his account and this ended 
up exacerbating financial difficulties he already had.  So I think that Santander didnt treat Mr 
B fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it should 
put things right. 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs account and unarranged overdraft balance so that all interest, 
fees and charges applied to it from 1 December 2018 are removed.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman