DRN-3840851
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the outcome of his dispute with Creation Financial Services Limited 
trading as Creation, about a faulty car. Hes also unhappy with the time Creation took to deal 
with both the dispute and his complaint about it.
What happened
In July 2017, Mr B purchased a car from a retailer. As part of the transaction, Mr B paid 
£1,000 of the purchase price using his credit card provided by Creation. In January 2021, Mr 
B returned the car to the retailer as it had been recalled for repair. The repair took place but, 
around 1,000 miles later, Mr B says he started having issues with the cars rapid charge 
function. It was determined that there was an issue with the drive train (EME) which would 
cost around £7,500 to repair. And the retailer offered to pay 80% of the cost of the repair.
Mr B was unhappy with the offer made by the retailer and, after an unsuccessful period of 
negotiation, he took his complaint to the Motor Ombudsman (MO), saying that the car wasnt 
of a satisfactory quality. And he wanted the retailer to pay 100% of the repair costs.
On 7 January 2022, the MO issued their initial opinion. While they said the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, they also took into consideration the fact that the car had suffered age 
and mileage related wear and tear while it was in Mr Bs possession. So, they thought the 
retailers offer of covering 80% of the costs was reasonable. Mr B didnt agree and asked the 
MO to issue a final decision.
On 13 February 2022, Mr B made a claim against Creation under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And he said that he was looking for the car to be repaired 
at no cost to him, with his diagnostic costs also being refunded. On 23 February 2022, 
Creation told Mr B that they couldnt investigate his claim until the MO had made their final 
decision. But they asked him to provide them with a copy of the diagnostic report and any 
other evidence he had to support his claim. In reply, a few days later, Mr B provided Creation 
with a copy of the MOs initial view (which hed already rejected).
Creation maintained their view that they needed the diagnostic report and the MOs final 
decision before they could deal with his claim. So, on 22 April 2022, Mr B complained to 
Creation about their stance, and about how long they were taking to review his claim.
The MO issued their final response on 23 May 2022, explaining why they considered the 
80% offer made by the retailer to be fair. Mr B provided Creation with a copy of this the same 
day. And, on 8 June 2022, Creation responded to his claim, saying there was no evidence 
that proves beyond doubt that the retailer is liable for the faults with the car. But theyd seen 
some evidence that the repairs carried out did have some impact on the post-recall 
problems. As such, Creation thought the 80% offer made by the retailer was fair.
Mr B wasnt happy with Creations outcome, or how they had dealt with matters. And he 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
While our investigation was ongoing, Mr B said that he no longer wished to pursue the issue 
of the outcome reached for the section 75 claim with ourselves, as he was now pursuing this 
through the courts. And he confirmed that he wanted to complain about the time Creation 
took to reach this outcome.
Our investigator said there were no set time limits for dealing with a section 75 claim, and 
more complex claims can take longer to resolve. She said that, as almost five years had 
passed between Mr B being supplied with the car and him making the claim to Creation, 
then it was his responsibility to show that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality. So, she 
thought Creation were right to ask for this evidence. And, she didnt think that Creation had 
unduly delayed their decision once this evidence had been provided. 
The investigator thought that Creation had misadvised Mr B by telling him they couldnt 
consider his claim until the MO had completed their investigation. And she didnt think this 
was the case. But she also didnt think that this had any impact on how long it took Creation 
to reach their decision. As such, she didnt think Creation needed to do anything more.
Our investigator also said that we were only able to consider complaints about regulated 
activities. And, as complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity, we were unable to look at 
how Creation dealt with the complaint Mr B had made.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Creation never asked him for an 
independent report, and he feels they couldve made the assessment themselves because 
the law seeks to find what a reasonable person would consider unsatisfactory  not an 
expert opinion. Mr B also thought that the information they gave him about the MO was 
inconsistent, and that they couldve asked him for an independent report, which wouldve 
been quicker than waiting for the MO to complete their investigation.
Mr B has also said that he provided Creation with the MOs initial findings on 26 February 
2022, so he thinks Creation taking until 8 June 2022 was excessive for a relatively simple 
case. 
The investigator considered Mr Bs comments, and she said that, under the CCA, actions 
taken by other parties such as the MO will be considered. And that a customer cannot 
benefit twice from a proven fault. So, she thought it was reasonable for Creation to await the 
outcome of Creations investigation before reaching their own conclusion. 
The investigator also said that Creation had asked Mr B to provide a diagnostic report and 
the MO outcome before they could investigate. So, she thought Creation had made it clear 
what they needed early on in their process. Finally, the investigator said she didnt think that 
Creation had acted unreasonably by asking for expert advice before concluding their claim.
Given this, the investigator didnt change her opinion that Creation had acted reasonably and 
didnt need to do anything more. Mr B still didnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr B paid for the car, in part, through a credit card provided by 
Creation. And, in doing so, he was entitled to make a claim with them under Section 75 of 
the CCA. 
For there to be a valid claim, there needed to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement in place. Ive seen that the receipt for the deposit from the retailer was in Mr Bs 
name. Creation have shown that the credit card transaction for this deposit was in Mr Bs 
name to the retailer. As such, Im satisfied a valid DCS agreement exists here.
Ive then considered the financial limits that apply to a valid section 75 claim. Mr B needed to 
have purchased a single item with a cash price of over £100 but no more than £30,000. I can 
see from the credit card statement that the total amount of the deposit paid on the credit card 
was £1,000. So, Im also satisfied the financial limits have been met for a valid claim. 
Given this, Im satisfied Mr B had a valid claim under section 75.
Finally, Ive also thought about whether it wouldve been correct for Creation to also consider 
this issue under the chargeback scheme. But, either way, given everything Ive said above 
and the complexity of the issue, Im not persuaded this wouldve had a reasonable chance of 
success.
Mr B has explained that he no longer wants us to consider his complaint about the outcome 
of his section 75 claim, as this is now being pursued through the courts. And hes aware, and 
not disputed, that how Creation dealt with his complaint isnt something were able to look at. 
As such, my decision will focus on the remaining area in dispute  how long Creation took to 
deal with his claim and arrive at their outcome.
In his comments, Mr B had said that Creation didnt need the MOs decision, and that they 
couldve asked him for an independent report. Which wouldve been quicker. While I agree 
that the final decision from the MO wasnt absolutely necessary, Creation required some 
evidence to support Mr Bs claim. And, in their email of 23 February 2022, as well as asking 
for the MOs outcome, Creation also asked Mr B for a copy of your diagnostic report and 
any other information which you believe will prove the retailers breach of contract of the 
vehicle they sold you.
Given this, Im satisfied that Mr B was asked for an independent report on the faults with the 
car. And this request was made within two weeks of Creation receiving Mr Bs claim, which I 
dont think was unreasonable.
On 26 February 2022, Mr B provided Creation with the MOs initial findings (dated 7 January 
2022). Which said that the failure of the EME was either due to it being inherently flawed, 
insufficiently durable for its use, or that it was a result of the recall repairs. However, this 
concluded that the EME would also suffer wear through usage and need replacement at 
some point during the lifespan of the car. So, the MO thought the retailers offer of 80% 
contribution to the costs is reasonable.
It's not disputed that Mr B didnt agree with the MOs findings and had asked for a final 
decision to be made. While it was just the proposed remedy that Mr B disagreed with, it 
always remained a possibility that the MOs final decision wouldnt agree with the initial 
outcome in respect of the faults with the car, and determine that the car was sufficiently 
durable. As such, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Creation not to accept the MOs initial 
findings; and await either their final report or the diagnostic report and other supporting 
evidence theyd requested on 23 February 2022 instead.I havent seen anything to show me that Mr B provided Creation with the diagnostic report 
and other evidence. However, he did provide Creation with a copy of the MOs final decision 
on 23 May 2022. This decision confirmed the MOs initial findings. And Creation provided Mr 
B with their outcome to his claim on 8 June 2022.
As the investigator has already said, theres no set timescale for dealing with a Section 75 
claim. And the time taken is dependent on the complexity of the issues involved in a claim. 
While Mr B considers this to have been a relatively simple case, there can be more 
complexities involved in a matter like this compared to some other Section 75 claims.
Creation received Mr Bs claim on 14 February 2022 and asked for further evidence on 23 
February  a period of 10 calendar days (8 working days). They received sufficient evidence 
from Mr B to be able to consider his claim on 23 May 2022 and issued their claim outcome 
on 8 June 2022  a period of 17 calendar days (11 working days, as this period included two 
UK Bank Holidays).
While I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, given the inherent 
complexities involved in a Section 75 claim of this nature, I dont consider a period of 19 
working days to request and review evidence, and to issue an outcome, is so long as to be 
unreasonable. As such, I dont think that Creation have delayed in dealing with Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Creation Financial Services 
Limited trading as Creation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman