DRN-3144788
The complaint
Miss B and Mr S complain that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National 
plc) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Miss B and Mr S in 1993. The 
policy provided Mr S with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss B and Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss B and Mr Ss case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Miss B and Mr Ss needs?
- Did Santander give Miss B and Mr S the information they needed to decide whether 
to take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Miss 
B and Mr S are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Miss B and Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons 
below.
Miss B and Mr S say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that Santander didn't 
give them a proper choice about taking it out. They say they were given the impression they 
had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage they wanted. Theyve also mentioned other 
insurances they bought at the time, and consider this demonstrates the pressured nature of 
the sale. Ive noted everything Miss B and Mr S have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss B and Mr S and 
Santander when the policy was arranged. I'm also mindful that these events took place 
nearly thirty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
I appreciate Miss B and Mr Ss frustration, but without anything else to support what they 
have told me, I don't think I can fairly or reasonably say that Santander didn't give them a 
choice about buying the PPI. 
Santander accepts that it advised Miss B and Mr S to take out the policy, and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
- Mr S was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr S says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due 
to sickness or accident, and that he had some savings. Hes also said he could've 
relied on his family to help if things went wrong. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to Mr S's occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Having the policy in place would mean Miss B and Mr S could use Mr S's work-
related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. And it would've meant they 
didn't have to rely on Mr Ss family. 
So I think Miss B and Mr S would have had some use for the policy despite their 
existing arrangements. 
- Mr S had a medical condition when he bought the policy, so its possible he wouldnt 
have been covered if hed had to make a claim in connection with that condition. But 
Mr S has told us his condition was managed with medication, and he hadnt had any 
time off work in connection with it. So I dont consider this point meant Santanders 
recommendation to take the policy was unsuitable. 
I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Miss B and Mr S before they 
agreed to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
So I think it unlikely Miss B and Mr S would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Miss B and Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this 
type of cover. As Ive already said, Mr S may have been affected by the exclusion for people 
with pre-existing medical conditions. I cant be sure that Santander wouldve pointed this out 
to Mr S. But given what hes told us about his condition, I think he wouldve thought the 
likelihood of him taking time off in connection with that condition was relatively low. So even 
if Santander had given him better information about the exclusion, I dont think Mr S and 
Miss B would have made a different decision about buying the policy. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman