DRN-3101809
The complaint
Mr A complains about St Andrews Insurance Plcs (St Andrews) handling of a refund of 
premium payments, relating to his building insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A received a letter from St Andrews in November 2020. The letter says it had incorrectly 
stated in its policy documents that a Valued Customer and Neighbourhood Watch 
discount had been applied. Because of this error it was going to pay £258.39 into Mr As 
bank account.
The letter says the valued customer discount applied from January 2010 to January 2018. 
And the neighbourhood watch discount applied between January 2016 and January 2018. 
Mr A requested more information. He wanted to know how the discounts had been 
calculated, including why one was for a shorter period than the other. Also, why the discount 
hadnt been applied from when the policy was taken out in 2007. Mr A asked why St 
Andrews hadnt dated its letter in full, he also asked if the discounts should apply to his other 
policy. 
St Andrews provided a breakdown of how the refund was calculated later in November 2020. 
Unfortunately, Mr A didnt receive this letter and couldnt open the email that was sent. A 
further copy of the letter was supplied in January 2021. However, this didnt say whether 
refunds were due for his other policy. The company acknowledged its service could have 
been better and offered £75 in compensation but didnt answer the point about the remaining 
policy.
Mr A remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She thought St Andrews initial letter, although less detailed than Mr A 
wanted, was clear. And the discount periods and amounts were appropriately explained in its 
follow up letter. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I realise he will be 
disappointed with this outcome, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Mr A says the letter he received from St Andrews confirming a refund payment had lacked 
detail and wasnt dated properly. I have read the letter which is dated November 2020. I note 
the date is not set out in full to include the day. I acknowledge Mr As concerns. But I dont 
think limiting the date to the month and year was detrimental to the information set out in the 
letter. I dont think it was improper for the letter to be dated in this way, or that Mr A has 
shown this created a problem for him. 
The letter provides an overview of why refunds were provided, what the discounts were for 
and the period over which they applied. I can understand why Mr A wanted more detail. 
Based on the records a more detailed response was provided later in November 2020 by 
both email and post. 
I understand Mr A couldnt open the email and didnt receive the postal copy of the letter. He 
contacted St Andrews numerous times to chase for this information. He says he finally 
received a copy of the full breakdown letter in mid-January 2021. Clearly, the delay in having 
sight of this information was frustrating for Mr A and caused him inconvenience. I note St 
Andrews paid £75 compensation for not providing a better service. 
The more detailed letter from St Andrews explains its Valued Customer Discount was 
discontinued in 2009. But the wording continued to be included in its policy documents, 
indicating it still applied until the 2017 policy year, when the wording was eventually 
removed. Although the discount had been discontinued, St Andrews says it honoured this 
because of its mistake of including this wording in the policy booklet.  
The breakdown shows the valued customer discount calculation was applied from 2010 
through to 2018. This ties in with St Andrews explanation. I understand the discount was 
applied up to 2009, which is why a payment wasnt required prior to this. Its only after the 
discount was discontinued in 2009, that refunds became applicable.
St Andrews letter also explains a similar issue occurred with its Neighbourhood Watch 
Discount. It says this discount was discontinued in 2015, but again was stated in its policy 
booklet going forward until it was removed in the 2017/2018 policy year. So, the letter 
explains a payment was made for the period from 2016 to 2018 with respect to this discount. 
Im satisfied from this explanation that St Andrews has provided a payment for the periods it 
considers it is liable for. 
That said, Mr A had also queried whether the missing discount payment should apply to his 
other policy with St Andrews. This isnt mentioned until a later letter was sent to Mr A dated 
February 2021. This letter refers to his other policy and says a payment is due in relation to 
the neighbourhood watch discount. The period of liability is the same as set out in the 
November 2020 letter. However, this doesnt mention the valued customer discount.     
I asked St Andrews to explain whether a refund was applicable relating to the valued 
customer discount for the other policy. In its response it says the discount was applied to this 
policy, and so this is why no refund was needed for this. 
The company has supplied screen shots from its system records relating to this policy. The 
records show that a discount was applied. This means there was no requirement to provide 
a refund in relation to the valued customer discount for this policy.
Having considered all of this, I think St Andrews behaved fairly when contacting Mr A to 
explain a charging error had been made, and its shown that it refunded the appropriate 
amounts for both policies. It didnt treat him fairly with respect to the delays responding to his 
concerns. But I think it has been fair in apologising for not providing a better service and 
paying £75 in compensation to acknowledge this. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any 
more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman