DRN-1813122
 
The complaint
Mrs S says Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs S took out a mortgage with Santander in 2004 and bought a PPI policy at the same 
time. It covered her for up to 12 months for each successful unemployment, accident or 
sickness claim she made.
Mrs S says (among other things) she was told she had to have the PPI. And she says she 
had good sick pay and other income and so didnt need the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ss complaint didnt uphold it. She disagrees and so her 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander no longer has the paperwork from the PPI sale but thats not surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago it took place. I cant know what was said to Mrs S when 
she was sold PPI  which I understand happened during a meeting at a branch. But, based 
on what we know about Santanders sales process in branch at the time, Mrs S wouldve 
signed a separate PPI application form if she wanted to go ahead with it. 
Given Santanders usual sales process at the time, I think its likely there was some 
discussion at the time with Mrs S about her insurance needs and she chose the cover she 
wanted from the three different types of cover it seems were available. Theres nothing in 
Mrs Ss mortgage application saying the PPI was compulsory, as Mrs S suggests it was. And 
I can see Mrs S was subsequently sent a letter showing her PPI policy had been set up, 
which refers to her having chosen it.
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its most likely it was made clear to 
Mrs S she had a choice about whether to take the PPI, and she agreed to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check the cover was right for her. 
Although I understand Mrs S had only been in her job for one month when she bought the 
PPI, she says she was in employment immediately before that. So I think she was eligible for the cover. And from the circumstances shes described, theres nothing to suggest she 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim if shed needed to. 
Mrs S says shed have got 12 months full pay and then half pay for another year after that. 
She says she had income from a pension as well as life cover, and death-in-service benefit 
and redundancy pay from her work. Since Mrs S had only been in her role for a month at the 
time she bought the PPI, I think its unlikely her work benefits were as good as she 
remembers them. And the income from her pension looks as if it was taken into account in 
her mortgage application. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits Mrs S 
got at the time and in addition to her pension income  both of which she may have needed 
for other living expenses if things got difficult  and for up to 12 months for each successful 
unemployment, accident or sickness claim she made. 
Finally, I havent seen anything to make me think Mrs S couldnt afford the cover, which she 
couldve cancelled at any time without any kind of penalty.
All of this makes me think that, despite what Mrs S says now, at the time the PPI was 
suitable for her. I say this bearing in mind Mrs Ss mortgage was secured on her home. The 
effects of not keeping up her mortgage repayments couldve serious for her.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mrs S all the clear information it shouldve before she 
decided to buy PPI. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mrs S agreed to buy the cover knowing 
she didnt have to and it was right for her. So I dont think clearer information wouldve 
changed her decision to go ahead with it.
It follows I dont think Mrs S have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman