DRN-3992442
The complaint
Mr B complains Triple A Financial Services (TAFS) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer the benefits from three pensions he held into one new personal pension plan. He 
says this may have caused him a financial loss.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC), but for 
ease Ill refer only to Mr B.
What happened
I understand that in 2010, Mr B was receiving advice about a mortgage. It seems Mr B 
was also interested in getting advice about maximizing the tax-free cash (TFC) he could 
access at age 55 from three of his pensions  a defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension with a transfer value of about £23,300, an occupational money purchase (or 
defined contribution, DC) pension worth about £22,547, and a personal DC pension 
worth about £33,500. The mortgage adviser referred Mr B to TAFS for that pension 
advice. 
In March 2010, the TAFS adviser (who Ill call Mr T) gathered information about Mr Bs 
circumstances. Its fact find recorded Mr B was age 48, in good health, and married with 
three children (though their ages werent recorded). That Mr B was self-employed and 
kept his annual income to about £10,000 or £12,000 for tax reasons, and had £5,000 
worth of personal effects and £3,000 in savings. That his home was worth £140,000, with 
an outstanding balance of £40,000 on a repayment mortgage, for which Mr B made 
monthly repayments of £445. The fact find recorded that Mr Bs only other monthly 
expenses were for utilities (£50) and council tax (£50). TAFS also assessed Mr Bs 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately adventurous, or, medium to high. 
In March 2010, TAFSs suitability letter advised Mr B to transfer these three pensions and 
combine them into one personal pension plan. The reasons given for this recommendation 
were to meet Mr Bs objectives of greater flexibility and control of his pension funds, 
particularly to access maximum TFC at age 55, and to allow him to combine these 
pensions and take greater risk with them in the hope of greater return. And Mr B would 
also pay less in charges. The suitability letter warned Mr B that If your aim were to secure 
the highest guaranteed retirement income possible I would recommend you do not 
transfer the [DB] pension, but we could still look at the [other two DC pensions] as these 
do not have guarantees., but also said Mr B understood the risk and still wanted to 
transfer. Mr B followed TAFS advice, and transferred a total of approximately £80,000 
from these three pensions into one personal pension plan.
TAFS said it stopped trading soon after giving this advice, and its adviser Mr T moved to a 
second firm. And that Mr B was advised by Mr T on behalf of this second firm, until Mr B 
changed to a new adviser at a third firm in 2015. 
Mr B said in 2020 he saw an online advert that said his specific type of pension might 
have been mis-sold, so he contacted the CMC that placed the advert. Through that CMC, 
Mr B complained to TAFS in March 2021. The crux of Mr Bs complaint was that TAFS 
transfer advice hadnt been suitable and might have caused him a financial loss.
On behalf of TAFS, Mr T responded to Mr Bs complaint, and focused on the DB transfer 
since this was what had guarantees attached. TAFS thought its 2010 advice was suitable, 
given Mr B wanted to bring these three pensions together to take more risk and more TFC 
at age 55 instead of a small retirement income, and wanted to improve the death benefits 
available to his family. TAFS said Mr Bs new personal pension plan had performed well, 
better than the critical yield calculated in the 2010 advice, so Mr B hadnt suffered a 
financial loss. And the guaranteed income Mr B had given up by transferring was only a 
small part of his total benefit.
Unhappy with this, Mr B came to our Service. One of our Investigators looked into whether 
Mr B had brought this complaint in time for our Service to be able to consider it. TAFS 
didnt consent to us considering it, if it hadnt been brought in time, because it thought 
Mr B had many years to raise any concerns if hed wanted to but hadnt done so. 
Our Investigator thought Mr B had brought this complaint in time. He said Mr B had been 
able to able to withdraw TFC at age 55 and saw his new personal pension plan grow in 
value, so he wouldnt have had cause for concern about the 2010 advice until seeing the 
advert in 2020 about pension mis-selling. TAFS and Mr B accepted this. 
Therefore, our Investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Bs complaint. Mr B told 
us that in 2015 hed followed the advice of his new financial adviser and transferred the 
benefits from the personal pension plan he took out in 2010 to another pension provider. 
And that when he reached age 55, he accessed between £35,000 and £36,000 of TFC to 
buy a caravan. For its part, TAFS told us it had clearly warned Mr B about giving up 
guaranteed value, but a transfer met his objectives of control and taking TFC at age 55. 
Our Investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. He thought TAFSs 2010 advice to transfer the 
DB pension was unsuitable, as TAFS hadnt properly understood Mr Bs circumstances 
and retirement needs, or properly challenged his reasons for wanting TFC at age 55. And 
that Mr B wouldnt have transferred his two DC pensions if he wasnt also transferring his 
DB pension, because accessing TFC was his key objective which he could have met 
through his existing two DC pensions, and he wouldnt have paid TAFS 4% transfer 
commission fee simply to potentially improve his returns. Our Investigator said TAFS 
should put Mr B into the position hed have been in but for its unsuitable advice in 2010, 
and carry out a redress calculation on that basis. 
On behalf of TAFS, Mr T disagreed. Mr T said TAFS stopped trading in 2010, so had no 
assets with which to pay redress. And that he was simply a private individual who had 
access to information held by TAFS. Our Investigator suggested Mr T contact the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about this. 
Later, our Investigator explained to both Mr B and TAFS that Mr B could choose to have 
any redress calculated now in line with the regulators current guidance in FG 17/9, or 
could instead choose to wait for any new guidance/rules to be published by the regulator, 
as expected in early 2023. 
Mr B confirmed he wanted any redress calculated now in line with the regulators current 
guidance, but had nothing else to add. 
On behalf of TAFS, Mr T made further comments. In summary, the new points were that:
Mr T had tried to honestly address this complaint and our Investigator hadnt helped 
him or treated him fairly him, given he was a private individual. Mr T clarified some details he thought our Investigator got wrong. Mr T said Mr B 
was in fact referred to TAFS. That TAFS suitability report made clear Mr B would 
lose DB guarantees if he transferred. That Mr B had outlined his retirement income 
needs at the time of the advice - his income needs would simply continue into 
retirement less any debt repaid before that. And that TAFS itself hadnt advised 
Mr B after the 2010 advice, as it had stopped trading.
Mr Bs complaint hadnt been brought in time. Three years was an arbitrary date, 
and there was no proof about when this period started other than the CMCs 
suggestion, who stood to benefit from the complaint being upheld. 
The transfer analysis (TVAS) assumed higher charges than were the case, so the 
critical yield was below the regulators middle rate of return. Mr B wanted TFC at 
age 55, but didnt want a retirement income until his mid-60s. So, the critical yield 
was achievable, though TAFS had made clear that performance wasnt guaranteed.
TAFS carried out a thorough financial advice process with Mr B, considered how 
best to meet his objectives, explained the risks and benefits to him, and followed the 
regulators guidance. Mr B couldnt meet his objectives of flexibility and TFC without 
transferring, and TAFS warned him not to transfer if he wanted the same value as 
his DB scheme - it was Mr B who didnt value the DB schemes guaranteed income. 
And the 2010 advice to transfer was in Mr Bs best interests and hed made a fully 
informed decision to accept that advice. 
Mr B had always wanted to transfer his DB scheme, as he went looking for this 
advice. And he would still have transferred the other two DC pensions, as he 
wanted to take greater risk for the possibility of greater returns. And the DC pension 
worth £22,547 didnt allow drawdown so Mr B had to transfer it at some point to 
access TFC, and doing so earlier allowed a few years of additional growth. 
Combining these three pensions also reduced Mr Bs ongoing charges.
TAFS made clear it would charge for advice, and Mr B was happy to take its advice. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision. On 
6 January 2030 I issued my provisional decision. In summary, I said I appreciated the 
flexibility, potential for higher growth and death benefits on offer by transferring the DB 
pension would have sounded attractive to Mr B. But TAFS wasnt there to simply arrange 
what Mr B mightve thought he wanted  it was instead obliged to give him an objective 
picture and to recommend what was in his best interests.
I said TAFS advice to transfer Mr Bs DB scheme benefits was unsuitable. Because it 
meant Mr B was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, and he was 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And there were no reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving 
up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, TAFS shouldve advised Mr B to 
remain in his DB scheme. I thought TAFS should compensate Mr B for this unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology, and 
using the benefits available to Mr B at his normal retirement age of 65. However, I said 
TAFS advice to switch Mr Bs two DC pensions was not unsuitable, because it allowed 
him to meet his main objectives without risking guaranteed, risk-free and increasing 
income in the way that transferring his DB pension did.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
TAFS provided further comments in response to my provisional decision. In summary, the 
further relevant points it made were that:Mr B had complained too late. Mr B knew he had cause for complaint long before this 
complaint to TAFS, because in June 2018 he instructed a solicitor to complain on his 
behalf about this matter. TAFS provided a copy of that complaint letter. 
It wasnt appropriate to calculate the TVAS or discount rate to age 55, as Mr B didnt 
want to take pension income at age 55. 
Mr B had thought the gain or loss from transferring his DB scheme benefits was likely so 
small that it didnt outweigh his other objectives. Any change in the amount of pension 
was secondary for Mr B, as TAFS advice had noted.
Mr B wasnt a professional investor but saw he could have higher returns if he took more 
risk. And TAFSs risk assessment showed Mr B had an above average attitude to risk. 
The critical yield of 6.9% was broadly the same as the discount rate of 6.5%, given that 
the charges were lower than those assumed in the critical yield calculation, and that 
adding Mr Bs other DC funds to this personal pension would lower them further. 
After asking TAFS and Mr B for any more comments or evidence they might have about 
Mr Bs 2018 complaint, I told them both that Id considered everything theyd provided about 
that matter, and I still thought Mr Bs complaint had been brought in time. 
Mr B had nothing further to add. 
TAFS provided a copy of its 2018 reply to the 2018 complaint letter  this reply said TAFS 
was no longer trading and couldnt help Mr B further. TAFS thought Mr Bs recollections of 
the 2018 complaint were inconsistent so I shouldnt place any weight on his testimony, and it 
reiterated that the 2010 transfer had achieved what Mr B had wanted. So TAFS thought this 
complaint shouldnt go any further.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied this complaint has been brought within the time limits, and 
that its a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
But I firstly need to acknowledge that Mr T says TAFS stopped trading in 2010 and doesnt 
have any assets to pay redress from. And that hes simply a private individual and weve 
not helped him. I must make clear that the role of our Service isnt to act for either 
consumers or businesses  instead, our role is to impartially investigate individual 
complaints made against financial businesses. 
While investigating this complaint, we contacted the FSCS about TAFS. The FSCS helps 
consumers when a financial business is unable  or likely to be unable  to pay 
compensation due from a claim against the business. But as a scheme of last resort, the 
FSCS may not pay out if a third party could also be held liable. In this particular case, the 
FSCS said it had told Mr T he was personally liable for claims against TAFS because it 
wasnt a limited company and he was the sole proprietor of TAFS, so the FSCS wouldnt 
deal with this claim. I appreciate this is a difficult situation for Mr T personally. But what 
hes told us doesnt prevent me from making a decision about Mr Bs complaint against 
TAFS. For ease, Ill refer only to TAFS from now on. 
Id also like to acknowledge that both parties have provided me with a great deal of 
detailed comments and evidence, and Ive carefully considered all of this. But while I mean 
no discourtesy, I wont mention everything Ive been provided with. Instead, Ill only address the comments and evidence I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
Has this complaint been brought in time?
I understand TAFS believes three years to a be an arbitrary date. Its helpful to explain that 
our Service must follow the Dispute Resolution (DISP): Complaints rules set out by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. DISP 2.8 sets out the time limits that apply, 
including the three year rule. DISP 2.8 says that, unless a business consents, our Service 
cannot consider a complaint if its been referred to us,
more than: 
(a)  six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)  three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R was as a result of exceptional circumstances
Mr Bs complaint is that TAFS gave him unsuitable advice in 2010. Mr B brought this 
complaint to our Service in 2021. This is clearly more than six years later, so his complaint 
is out of time under the six-year part of the rule. Therefore, I need to consider the three-
year part of the rule.
Mr B initially told our Service that he first became aware he might have cause for complaint 
about the advice to transfer his DB benefits when he saw an advert in 2020. But TAFS has 
provided me with a copy of a complaint letter it received, dated 8 June 2018, from a firm of 
solicitors acting on Mr Bs behalf. The letter says Mr B is complaining that the advice he 
received in 2000 to transfer benefits from his DB scheme into a personal pension was 
unsuitable, because he wasnt told hed risk lower retirement income and lose guaranteed 
benefits, amongst other things, and wasnt given all the information he needed to make a 
fully informed decision about whether to accept the advice. The letter also says Our clients 
date of knowledge that he had cause to bring a complaint was when he/she was advised to 
by [firm of solicitors]. Until then, they had no knowledge of the legal and regulatory duties of 
professional financial advisors at the time the policy in question was recommended.
Mr B says he doesnt know when his contact with this firm of solicitors began, doesnt have 
any copies of its documents or correspondence, and doesnt remember dealing with it for 
long. And he says he didnt receive any follow up about it.
Clearly Mr B would have had discussions with the solicitors before the 2018 complaint letter 
was sent. But as I explained in my provisional decision, Mr B could only complain about the 
2010 advice if there was something that ought reasonably to have made him aware he had 
cause for complaint.
Its not disputed Mr B accessed a significant amount of TFC at age 55, and TAFS itself 
argues the new personal pension plan it advised Mr B to transfer to has performed well. So 
the new pension seems to have met the wishes Mr B went to TAFS with in 2010. Therefore, 
theres nothing there that ought reasonably to have made Mr B aware that the 2010 advice 
might have been unsuitable for him.
And while Mr B changed from the second firm of advisers (where Mr T, previously of TAFS, 
was his adviser) to a third firm of advisers in 2015, hes explained this was because the second firm wasnt interacting with him as much as he would have expected - Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Mr B changed firms in 2015 because he was unhappy about TAFS 
2010 advice.
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with, theres nothing to suggest Mr B was an 
experienced investor or that he had more than a general level of knowledge relating to 
pensions. Or to suggest that Mr B was provided with any other information, between the 
advice in 2010 and the complaint he raised in 2018, that ought reasonably to have made him 
aware he had cause for complaint about the 2010 advice. Given this, I dont think Mr B 
would have had cause to think there was an issue with it unless this was suggested to him. 
So I think that sometime in 2018, a firm of solicitors suggested to Mr B that there might be an 
issue with the 2010 advice. So, I think Mr B complained within the three year time limit.
For completeness, the six and three year time limits are not the only time limits that DISP 
sets out. DISP also says our Service cant look at a complaint if it was made more than six 
months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its final response, 
redress determination or summary resolution communication, unless the business consents 
to our Service considering it, or unless our Service thinks the failure to comply with the time 
limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
It's clear the 2018 letter was a complaint about the advice to transfer Mr Bs DB pension 
scheme benefits into a personal pension. And Im satisfied TAFS received this complaint 
letter, because TAFS provided a copy of it, along with a copy of the response it sent to that 
letter in 2018. Even though the complaint letter got the advice date and responsible firm 
wrong, TAFS couldve seen that the specific advice the letter complained of was advice that 
TAFS had in fact given to Mr B in 2010. In 2018, TAFS responded to that complaint to say 
TAFS was no longer trading and it couldnt help Mr B further. So in my view, TAFS didnt 
send Mr B a final response letter that would have set the six month time limit running. For 
this reason, I think Mr Bs complaint has also been brought within the six month time limit.
Taking everything into account, I remain of the view that Mr B has referred this complaint to 
us within the time limits set out in the DISP rules. So Im satisfied our Service has the power 
to consider Mr Bs complaint about TAFS 2010 advice. Therefore, Ill now consider the 
merits of this complaint.
Did TAFS provide Mr B with suitable advice in 2010?
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the 
time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TAFS's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
The advice to transfer the DB scheme pension
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TAFS 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was 
in Mr Bs best interests. 
I appreciate TAFS says it complied with the rules and guidance. But having considered all 
of this and all the evidence in this case, Im not satisfied the DB transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
TAFS argues the critical yields (the investment return on the pension required each year 
to provide a fund large enough to purchase an annuity providing the same benefits as the 
DB scheme) were achievable, as demonstrated by the growth Mr B has achieved since 
the advice was given. Ive considered this carefully, but I still dont think at the time of the 
advice TAFS could reasonably say Mr B was likely to be better off by transferring his DB 
scheme benefits into a new personal pension plan. 
Mr B was age 48 at the time of the advice and TAFS recorded that he wanted to maximise 
the amount of TFC he could access at age 55, but that he didnt plan to retire at that point  
instead, Mr B intended to retire in his mid-60s. The TVAS recorded that the critical yield 
required to match Mr Bs existing DB scheme benefits at age 65 was 6.9% if he took a full 
pension - TAFS argues the TVAS assumed higher charges than were in fact the case, but 
from what I can see, the difference was less than 0.1% so I dont think this would have 
significantly impacted the critical yield figure. The TVAS didnt record what critical yield was 
required if Mr B took TFC at age 55 and a reduced pension, but I think it would likely have 
been higher than 6.9% given the shorter time invested. I know TAFS argues it wouldnt have 
been appropriate to calculate the TVAS to age 55, as Mr B didnt want to take his pension 
income at age 55. But I dont agree, because TAFS advice was predicated on Mr B 
accessing TFC at age 55, and taking TFC early reduces the sum available to provide 
retirement income.
TAFS recorded that Mr B wanted to take a greater risk with these three pensions in the hope 
of greater returns, and assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk as medium to high. TAFS says that 
assessment was correct, because while Mr B wasnt a professional investor, he saw he 
could have higher returns if he took more risk. 
But Im still of the view that this wasnt an accurate reflection of Mr Bs true attitude to risk. 
TAFS recorded that Mr Bs two DC pensions were invested in lower risk and low to medium 
risk funds, so I accept they had an element of risk. And Mr B had about 16 years until 
retirement, so he had time to take some risk and still grow his pension before retirement. But 
regardless of whatever Mr B himself thought his attitude to risk and capacity for loss was, he 
was a retail client and Ive seen nothing to suggest he was an experienced or knowledgeable 
investor. I dont think that simply having pension contracts meant he had a level of 
understanding and experience such that he was able to take a higher risk. And given what TAFS recorded of Mr Bs pension provision at the time of its advice, I dont think Mr B was in 
a position to take too much risk with his retirement funds, which constituted these three 
plans. So I think TAFS assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk too highly here. Instead, I think 
medium would have been a more reasonable categorisation of Mr Bs attitude to risk, 
particularly when considering his capacity for loss.  
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
As Ive said above, the critical yield required to match the DB scheme at retirement age 65 
was recorded as 6.9% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 6.5% per year for 
16 years to retirement at age 65 in this case. TAFS argues that Mr B didnt want to take 
pension income at age 55, so the discount rate shouldnt be calculated to age 55. But I dont 
agree because, as I say, TAFS advice was predicated on Mr B accessing TFC at age 55, 
and taking TFC early reduces the sum available to provide retirement income. The discount 
rate was 5.5% per year for age 55. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, what 
I see to be Mr Bs medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be 
little point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 6.9% (based on Mr B taking a full pension at age 65), I think Mr B was 
unlikely to be able to improve on the benefits available to him under the DB scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. TAFS says the critical yield 
of 6.9% was broadly the same as the discount rate of 6.5% given the lower actual charges, 
and that adding Mr Bs other DC funds to this personal pension would lower them further - Ill 
return to this point. But given Mr Bs apparent desire to obtain higher retirement benefits, 
I think TAFS shouldve clearly explained that he wasnt likely to meet this objective by 
transferring out of his DB scheme.
TAFS argues Mr Bs new personal pension plan has performed well so hes not suffered a 
financial loss. That may be the case, but this wasnt something TAFS or Mr B could have 
known in 2010, and I need to base my decision on whether the advice was suitable at the 
time. In any case, thats a matter for the redress calculation  its possible that because of 
the performance achieved this may not show a loss. But this doesnt mean TAFS advice 
was suitable or that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Also, as TAFS will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more 
realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time. And the growth Mr B could likely achieve 
given his medium attitude to risk would have been more realistically reflected in the 
regulators middle (7%) projection rate. 
The documents provided by TAFS include various financial analyses. Ive considered 
these but, as I say, they base the critical yield on Mr B taking a full pension at age 65, 
whereas TAFS advice was predicated on Mr B accessing maximum TFC at age 55. And 
they dont seem to show a direct comparison between the escalating income Mr B was 
entitled to take through his existing DB scheme, and the same income being instead taken through a personal pension to his estimated death. 
Given that I think Mr B was, at best, only likely to be able to match his income in 
retirement if he transferred out, for this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice, as TAFS has argued here. So, there might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
The key reason TAFS recommended Mr B transfer these three pensions into a new personal 
pension plan was to meet his objective of accessing maximum TFC at age 55. And TAFS 
argues Mr B had thought the gain or loss from transferring his DB scheme benefits was likely 
so small that it didnt outweigh his other objectives - any change in the amount of pension 
was secondary for Mr B, as TAFS advice had noted.
But I dont think Mr B needed to transfer his DB pension to take TFC. And I dont think TAFS 
properly discussed or challenged this with Mr B, or made clear to Mr B that while he might 
wish to maximise the TFC he could take at age 55, this was not a pressing need such that 
he needed to take risks with his DB pension benefits. Because based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think Mr B had any concrete need at the time of the advice to take TFC at age 
55. 
I say this because while the suitability letter makes clear that Mr B wanted to access 
maximum TFC at age 55, it doesnt say anything about why he wanted to do that or how 
much TFC he wanted. I think if asked, most people might think accessing as much TFC as 
they can before retirement is desirable. But that doesnt mean it was a genuine objective for 
Mr B at the time of the advice or one that he shouldve been encouraged to pursue without 
good reason. Taking maximum TFC reduces the sum available to provide retirement 
income. Mr B was 48 and had more than six years before he thought he wanted access to 
TFC, so I think transferring his DB pension in 2010 was premature. Therefore at the time of 
the 2010 advice, Im not satisfied that taking TFC at age 55 was a concrete plan Mr B was 
working towards, but rather was simply an idea he had. 
I know Mr B has confirmed he took about £35,000 to £36,000 of TFC at age 55, and used it 
to buy a caravan. But as I say, TAFS didnt properly discuss or challenge Mr Bs wish for 
maximum TFC at age 55, or record anything about why he wanted it or how much TFC he 
wanted. And even if I accepted that at the time of the 2010 advice, Mr B had a concrete 
need to buy a caravan six years later at age 55, which I dont, then I think there were other 
ways of achieving this without transferring his DB pension and losing guaranteed benefits.
Its evident that Mr B had two other pensions he could take TFC from at age 55. At the time 
of the advice, Mr B could have accessed about £14,000 of TFC through his other DC 
pensions - Ill return to this when I consider whether TAFS gave Mr B suitable advice to 
switch his two DC pensions.
And TAFS recorded Mr B had £3,000 of savings. If taken at face value  which Ill also return 
to  the information TAFS recorded also showed Mr B had disposable income each month. 
So I think Mr B could have built these savings up further if hed wanted to. Therefore, I think 
that the information TAFS gathered shows that at the time of the advice, Mr B had about 
£17,000 available, which wouldve achieved further investment growth over the next six 
years. But as I say, TAFS didnt challenge or record why Mr B wanted TFC at age 55, or how much 
he wanted. If Mr B thought hed need more than the £17,000 (plus growth) available to him 
through his DC pensions and his savings, then TAFS could have introduced the idea of a 
loan. But in any event this discussion wouldve been premature. And I think TAFS shouldve 
advised Mr B to revisit the objective of taking TFC nearer to him reaching age 55, at which 
point hed know how much he wanted and for what reason. He could then assess whether 
the TFC available to him through the DC schemes was sufficient. 
In summary, at the time of the advice, Mr B was just over six years away from 
possibly wanting to access TFC, which wasnt a concrete plan. And he was about 18 
years from retiring. So, I dont think Mr B shouldve been advised to make an 
irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB scheme to have flexibility that he already 
had by virtue of his other pensions. In my view, Mr Bs desire to access TFC at age 
55 didnt outweigh TAFS responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and act in 
his best interest. 
Death benefits
TAFS response to Mr Bs complaint said Mr B had wanted to improve the death benefits 
available to his family from his pensions. But its not clear what TAFS is basing that on, 
because the documents its provided from the time of the 2010 advice make no mention 
of improved death benefits being one of Mr Bs objectives. But for completeness, Ill 
address TAFS argument. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension might have been an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it 
was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this even if 
TAFS didnt record it, the priority here was to advise Mr B about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
And I dont think TAFS explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B 
was married and had children (though their ages werent recorded by TAFS) and so the 
spouses and dependents pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his wife and children if Mr B predeceased them. I dont think TAFS made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr B. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. In any event, TAFS should not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise 
the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife or anyone else, 
which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained 
on his death, I think TAFS shouldve instead recommended life insurance. The 
information recorded in the fact find showed Mr B was in good health and had 
disposable income. But the suitability letter doesnt record any discussion about life 
insurance. And Ive not seen that TAFS obtained any quotes for life insurance for 
Mr B, so I dont think it gave him enough information on which to base a decision 
about whether or not this was something he wanted or could afford. The starting point 
here should have been for TAFS to ask Mr B how much he would ideally like to leave 
to his wife or other beneficiaries, and how much he could afford to contribute. 
Insurance on this basis was likely to be available to Mr B and would have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont think 
that insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control 
I think Mr Bs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr B was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr B  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
Advice to switch the DC pensions
Im satisfied TAFS advice to switch the two DC pensions into a personal pension was not 
unsuitable for Mr B, because it allowed him to meet his main objectives without risking 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income in the way that transferring his DB pension did. 
TAFS recorded that Mr Bs two main objectives were to access maximum TFC at age 55 and 
to take greater risk in the hope of a greater return on his pension investment. 
Although TAFS could have thought about whether Mr B could have combined his DC by 
switching one into the other, Im not persuaded this would have allowed Mr B to have 
accessed his funds flexibly as he wanted to, because its likely neither of Mr Bs existing DC 
pensions would have allowed him to simply take TFC at age 55.
TAFS says Mr Bs DC pension worth £22,547 didnt allow drawdown, so he would have had 
to switch it at some point to access TFC and doing so earlier allowed a few years of 
additional growth. Based on the information publicly available from that pension provider, 
I see Mr B couldnt simply have just taken TFC from it at age 55 without also taking an 
income. So I accept Mr B would have needed to switch this pension at some point in order to 
access TFC from it at age 55.
I also think its unlikely Mr Bs other DC pension worth £33,500 would have allowed 
drawdown either. Our Service has asked the provider for further information about this DC 
pension, but wasnt able to obtain it. However, I dont think I need this information in any 
case. Thats because this DC pension was established prior to 2010 and prior to the 
legislation commonly referred to as pension freedoms. So given when this DC pension was 
established and when TAFS gave this advice, its likely Mr B would also have needed to 
switch this pension at some point in order to access TFC from it at age 55. 
So I dont think its likely Mr B could have accessed TFC from these two existing DC 
pensions at age 55 without taking an income. In addition, Mr B also wanted to take a greater 
risk for the possibility of greater growth. As I say, I think Mr B had a medium attitude to risk. 
But his two existing DC pensions were invested in low and low to medium risk funds. So 
switching and consolidating his two DC pensions into one personal pension allowed Mr B to 
meet his objective of investing more in line with his medium attitude to risk and gave him 
simplified management of the two pensions. 
However, switching these two DC pensions was not without cost. And Ive thought about 
whether or not that cost was prohibitive in the circumstances.  Based on the evidence Ive seen, the provider would have applied the same level of discount 
to its ongoing charge for fund values between £50,000 and £150,000 - so not transferring 
the DB benefits as well didnt make any difference to this. From what I can see, Mr B would 
have been charged ongoing charges totalling 0.95% per annum (0.50% by TAFS plus 0.45% 
by the provider) to manage the two DC investments worth about £56,047. And TAFS would 
have also charged Mr B an initial adviser charge of 4% (about £2,241) of the total transfer 
value. 
I dont know the costs of Mr Bs existing DC pensions as this information isnt contained 
within the file TAFS provided. As above, our Service has asked the providers for further 
information about the charges but they werent forthcoming. However, I think its unlikely the 
charges for either plan were likely to be substantially lower than the 0.45% applicable to the 
new pension. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that the cost of switching wasnt 
prohibitive even without transferring the DB scheme funds. There was the possibility of 
improved fund performance - they would have been invested in line with Mr Bs medium 
attitude to risk, so invested in slightly higher risk funds than they were currently invested in. 
And Im mindful theyd be invested for the medium to long term, given Mr B wanted to 
access TFC in about six years time and then draw an income when he retired in about 18 
years time. So I think Mr B was likely to be able to recoup the cost of switching these two 
DC pensions through improved fund performance. And in any event, switching allowed Mr B 
to meet his objective of accessing his pension flexibly. So, overall, I dont think the advice to 
switch these plans was unsuitable.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, and potential for higher growth and death benefits on 
offer by transferring the DB pension would have sounded attractive to Mr B. But TAFS 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. TAFS role was to 
really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B to transfer his DB scheme was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was 
unlikely to be able to significantly improve on the retirement benefits his DB scheme 
provided and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this. Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of his DB 
scheme just to maximise TFC he didnt have a genuine need for at the time, and he could 
still have accessed a significant amount of TFC at age 55 by switching his other two 
pensions to another plan. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving 
up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I think TAFS shouldve advised 
Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against TAFS 
advice. TAFS argues its suitability letter warned Mr B not to transfer if he wanted the 
same value as his DB scheme, and made clear hed lose DB guarantees if he 
transferred. That the 2010 advice to transfer was in Mr Bs best interests, and hed made 
a fully informed decision to accept that advice. And that Mr B had always wanted to 
transfer his DB scheme, as he went looking for this advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against TAFS advice. I say this because Im satisfied 
Mr B was an inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk. And at the time of 
advice, TAFS recorded that Mr Bs only pension provision was these three paid-up 
pensions, which then had a combined value of about £80,000. So, while TAFS argues 
that the guaranteed income Mr B gave up by transferring his DB pension was only a 
small part of his total benefit, the information TAFS had showed that Mr B didnt have significant retirement savings. So, I think any guaranteed retirement income was 
valuable and shouldnt have been underplayed as it was in TAFS advice to Mr B.
Therefore, if TAFS had provided Mr B with clear advice against transferring out of the 
DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice. TAFS argues it was in fact Mr B who did not value the guaranteed income 
attached to his DB scheme. But while I note TAFS suitability letter did include warnings 
about transferring, it nonetheless went on to clearly advise Mr B to transfer his DB 
benefits to a personal pension. And I dont think the weight of that recommendation to 
transfer out can be ignored.
Im not persuaded that Mr Bs desire to maximise the amount of TFC he could access at 
age 55 or his concerns about his death benefits were so great that he wouldve insisted on 
transferring his DB pension knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had 
sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If 
TAFS had clearly and simply explained that Mr B could still access a significant amount of 
TFC and improve death benefits for his family without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr B would have insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme.
However, I dont think TAFS advice to switch Mr Bs two DC pensions was unsuitable, 
because it allowed him to meet his main objectives, and without risking guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income in the way that transferring his DB pension did.
In light of the above, I think TAFS should compensate Mr B for its unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for TAFS to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for TAFS unsuitable advice to transfer his DB 
pension. I consider Mr B would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable 
advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B.
TAFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand that Mr B has not yet retired and has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my final 
decision.
TAFS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme 
on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This 
amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date TAFS receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes TAFS 
to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TAFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. TAFS should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest 
wont apply. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect TAFS to carry out a calculation in line 
with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Triple A Financial 
Services to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Triple 
A Financial Services to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would require Triple A 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Triple A Financial Services pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Triple A 
Financial Services.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Triple A Financial Services should provide details of its calculations to Mr B in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman