DRN-3337485
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc closed his account but didnt then give him a payment 
plan to repay his overdraft. He says they then registered a default against his account. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont go into much detail 
about the background but will summarise the key points leading to Mr Rs complaint. TSB 
Bank wrote to Mr R giving him two months notice of their decision to close his accounts. 
One of Mr Rs accounts was overdrawn at the point the accounts were due to be closed so 
this was passed to TSB Banks Collections team. They contacted Mr R a number of times to 
ask him to repay the balance on his account. As this wasnt paid, the matter was passed to 
TSB Banks Recoveries team who registered a default against the account. 
Mr R complained to TSB Bank and they explained they had taken steps in line with the terms 
and conditions by giving Mr R two months notice of their decision to close his account. And, 
despite sending chasers, Mr R didnt repay the balance on his account, so they registered a 
default and passed the debt to a debt collection agency. TSB Bank said they couldnt agree 
a repayment plan with Mr R as these plans are typically for six months, which is longer than 
the time given before the account will close. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. She thought TSB Bank hadnt acted unfairly in 
defaulting the account. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Rs accounts. Section 16 covers the ways 
in which TSB Bank can end the agreement. This says they can end the agreement by writing 
to Mr R and giving him two months notice. It goes further to say, if that happens, then Mr R 
must pay back any money owed, such as an overdraft. 
I can see TSB Bank write to Mr R on 12 March to say, following a review of his account, they 
can no longer run a bank account for him. They say theyll be closing his account in two 
months. I acknowledge Mr R isnt happy with TSB Banks decision to close his account.
Banks regularly review customer accounts and, given that TSB Bank can close an account 
by giving two months notice, I dont think the steps they took here were unreasonable. I note 
it will be frustrating for Mr R to not know more details about TSB Banks reasons, but theres 
no provision within the terms and conditions which requires TSB Bank to give a specific 
reason. 
  
Its important that financial businesses report accurate factual information about customers 
to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Guidelines issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office state that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, 
complete and up to date. Ive looked at TSB Banks website and note the Data Privacy 
Notice explains that they share information with CRAs. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for TSB Bank to share information with the CRAs. 
The next point Ive considered is whether the information shared was accurate. I can see 
TSB Bank write to Mr R on 2 June 2021 to say his account is in an unarranged overdraft and 
to make a payment to clear the balance as soon as possible. They explain, if the balance 
isnt repaid theyll report this to the CRAs who will retain the information for six years. TSB 
Bank send chasers on 12 and 22 June to let Mr R know he needs to clear the balance 
otherwise a default will be registered against the account. TSB Bank then write again on 13 
July to say theyve stopped charging interest on Mr Rs account and again reminding him 
that he needs to clear the balance and that theyll report this to the CRAs if a payment isnt 
made. TSB Bank then write again on 20 July to say the balance still hasnt been repaid so if 
Mr R doesnt repay the full amount within 13 days of the letter they will take further action by 
reporting the exceeded overdraft limit to the CRAs and transferring the account to a debt 
collection agency. As Mr Rs account was still in arrears after the 13 days, TSB Bank 
registered a default with the CRAs. I can see Mr R then cleared the balance in October.    
Taking this all into account, I think TSB Bank have provided accurate information to the 
CRAs. I do acknowledge Mr Rs frustrations here and I also note his concern about TSB 
Bank not agreeing to a repayment plan. But, TSB Bank say they couldnt agree to this as 
these are typically six months in duration so this would extend beyond the two months 
notice theyd given Mr R for the closure of the account. In addition to this, the terms and 
conditions say TSB Bank can ask a customer to repay an overdraft at any time. And, if they 
do, theyll usually let a customer know 30 days in advance. In this case, TSB Bank have 
given Mr R more than 30 days notice to repay the overdraft. So, I cant say theyve acted 
unreasonably here. 
I note Mr R says he didnt receive the complaint response and other communication from 
TSB Bank and he paid the balance as soon as he became aware it was owed by the debt 
collection agency. Ive seen the letters sent by TSB Bank and theyre addressed correctly so 
I cant hold TSB Bank responsible if they werent received. Im also not persuaded Mr R 
wasnt aware of the balance owed until the debt collection agency contacted him as 
information from TSB Bank shows he called them on 22 June to discuss the debt owed and 
whether theyll agree to a repayment plan. This was before the default was registered. So, 
taking this into account, I think TSB Bank gave reasonable notice to Mr R about repaying the 
balance and reasonable time to repay it  therefore, their decision to register a default wasnt 
unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman