DRN-2259665
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs B took out in April 
1995.
It was sold in store and provided protection for Mrs B's account payments if she couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 September. I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint 
and I explained why. I said:
AXA had to make Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI. Ive looked at the account application form and this included a separate 
section headed Payment Protection. There were equally clear options to accept or 
decline the PPI and the Yes box has been ticked. Mrs B says the member of staff 
filled in the form on her behalf But, as part of this process, the member of staff would 
have needed Mrs Bs agreement to the PPI insurance so that the box could be 
ticked. Mrs B would then have had time to read through the form, before signing to 
agree that the details were correct. The section about PPI was relatively brief, so I 
think Mrs B would have still been able to do this, even though the card and PPI were 
taken out in a store.
So, overall, I think AXA made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and she chose 
to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. So Ive thought about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time and 
whether having better information would have affected her decision to take the PPI.
Mrs B has given us some brief details about the sick leave she took from work before 
she took out the PPI. These all seem to be one off incidents and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs B suffered from any of the conditions on an on-going 
basis. The policy terms excluded any medical condition which necessitated medical 
or surgical treatment or consultation within the twelve months before you applied for 
this Policy. So, even if the symptoms of the conditions Mrs B has told us about 
recurred after shed taken the policy, she wouldnt have been prevented from making 
a successful claim as shed not consulted a doctor about those conditions in the 
previous 12 months.
It doesnt look like Mrs B was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. As she could have benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont 
think having better information about these exclusions or limits would have affected 
her decision take out PPI.
Mrs B told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from her employer if she couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. And 
that she had some savings. The PPI would have covered Mrs B's card payments if 
she was unable to work due to sickness or an accident until she returned to work. 
This would have been in addition to any sick pay she received. It also covered her if 
she'd become unemployed. So I think it could have been a useful benefit despite her 
existing arrangements.
The application form that Mrs B completed is described as a Trader Account. But 
theres nothing to suggest that Mrs B intended to use the account to buy goods for 
other parties. If that was the case, I would have expected her to have told AXA, and 
us, about this when she complained.
Overall, I dont think Mrs B has lost out because of anything that AXA might have 
done wrong.
Mrs Bs representative did not respond to my provisional decision. AXA told us it had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs B's case.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman