DRN-2394174
The complaint
Mrs K complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Secure Trust 
Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway, was misrepresented to her and was not of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs K acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the price of the car
I understand that Mrs K has provided evidence to suggest the car was advertised at lower 
prices elsewhere. I also understand why that would have upset her.
But I dont think its illegal for the car to be advertised at different prices and Mrs K agreed to 
the price the car was eventually sold to her at and that Moneyway agree to provide finance 
for.
So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest Moneyway have done anything wrong with regard 
to the price of the car.
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneyway, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs K. The car 
here was around five years old and had completed about 88,272 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Ive considered the issues Mrs K says she had with the car and I understand that there was 
a delay arranging an independent inspection because of the current pandemic. 
Mrs K has complained about several issues with the car, as follows:
cambelt, air conditioning and brake fluid, 
It was not possible for the cambelt to be inspected by the independent inspector as approval 
had not been given to strip the car down. The report from the manufacturers franchise 
doesnt suggest there is a fault with the cambelt; only that it would require replacement 
under the service plan. Similarly, the air conditioning service light is not a fault but an 
indication of a need for a service in which the brake fluid would also require a change. So, 
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence these are faults with the car that Moneyway 
need to remedy.
tailgate closure 
The independent inspector was able to open and close the tailgate and could not identify a 
fault with it. I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to doubt his expert opinion.
tyre wear
The tyre tread depths noted by the garage are within legal limits and do not suggest the car 
was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition.
rear washer and suspension
The independent inspector has explained that the rear washer jets would not be something 
considered by the MOT examiner. He thought that issue, and the creaking suspension, to be 
problems associated with wear and tear. I think a reasonable person would expect some 
wear and tear on a car that had already completed 88,000 miles when supplied, so I dont 
think it would be fair to say these issues render the car of unsatisfactory quality or that 
Moneyway need to take any action in relation to them.
filler tank flap
Ive seen evidence to suggest this should be tested during the MOT. I think its therefore 
likely it worked at that point. So, I dont think theres evidence it was broken when Mrs K took 
receipt of the vehicle.
Overall, Im not persuaded that there has been sufficient evidence that the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality and Im not asking Moneyway to take any further action. I understand that Mrs K thinks she has been poorly treated and taken advantage of because 
she wasnt born in this country. Whilst I can understand that she is upset about the issues 
shes experienced, having reviewed all the evidence, including Moneyways case reports, I 
have not found any evidence of the business discriminating against her or treating her 
unfairly on the basis of her nationality. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman