DRN-1735531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a loan.
What happened
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs I a PPI policy with a loan in September 2000. The cost of the 
policy was added to the loan and attracted interest. The loan and PPI was due to run for five 
years, but the loan was repaid early. Only Mrs I was covered under the policy. She was 
covered for accident, sickness and unemployment. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs I 
disagreed, so the case was passed to me to consider. They said:
they werent given an option to take PPI and they were led to believe the insurance 
was compulsory if they wanted the loan. 
this was a joint loan and they believed they had to have cover for both of them. 
they thought they had to have PPI for each borrowing, so they had more than one 
PPI policy running concurrently. 
now they know when the loan was taken out, they can confirm that Mr I was self-
employed at the time. 
they didnt need PPI, they had savings and family wouldve helped. They only took it 
because they didnt know PPI was optional.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Is case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the credit agreement that Mr and Mrs I signed to take out the loan. Theyve both 
signed to take out the loan with PPI. I cant know what was or wasnt discussed with 
Nationwide at the time of sale. Ive listened carefully to what Mr and Mrs I have said. But, I 
also note that this policy was sold quite some time ago and memories can fade over time.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made a decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available. Ive also looked at the 
documentation available from the time, to see what this says.
The credit agreement sets out the cost of the PPI separately in a column headed Optional 
Credit Insurance. This lists the amount borrowed for PPI, the amount of interest for PPI, the 
total amount payable for PPI, the interest rate and the monthly payment for PPI.The first column on the credit agreement sets out the amount of the Principal Loan, the 
amount of interest payable, the total payable and the monthly payment. Had Mr and Mrs I 
wanted a loan without PPI, this is what they wouldve had to pay. The middle column set out 
what they had to pay for the Optional Credit Insurance, as set out above. The final column 
set out the Total payment for the Principal Loan and PPI combined. Mr and Mrs I signed 
this agreement.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional, and Mr 
and Mrs I were clearly told the cost of it. I think it likely that had Mr and Mrs I wanted a loan 
without PPI, they wouldnt have signed the agreement. So, I cant fairly 
uphold their complaint on this ground.
I dont think Nationwide recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs I. But, it still needed to give them 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading, so they could make an informed choice 
about whether the PPI was right for them and they wanted to buy it.
I cant be certain about all of the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs I about the PPI. 
So, I have considered whether if they had been given better information, it wouldve affected 
their decision. I cant see that it wouldve. In reaching this conclusion, I have taken into 
account Mr Is circumstances too as this was a joint loan, even though only Mrs I was 
covered under the policy.
The policy didn's seem inappropriate for them. I'll say why.
It seems Mrs I was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by any of the main things 
the policy excluded or limited cover for. It seems both from Nationwides records from 
the time, and what Mr I has more recently said about his employment at the time of 
sale, he was self-employed when they took the loan with PPI out. That may be why 
cover was in Mrs Is name only. I can also see from Nationwides records that 
although this was a joint loan, which they were both liable to repay, it was assessed 
as being affordable on Mrs Is income on its own. So having cover if she was not 
working may have been important to them.
The loan agreement made it clear the PPI was an extra cost and set out what the 
costs were  both with and without the PPI policy.They potentially could have got 
quite a lot more back from the PPI in claims than it cost. So I think they would have 
seen it as protection that was worth having
Mrs I said she wouldve got sick pay from work, up to three months worth of pay. 
She also said they had some savings, again worth around three months worth of 
pay. Also, Mr I,  was working, so they said he wouldve been able to contribute 
towards their repayments. They said their family would've helped too. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Is work benefits. It wouldve covered their 
repayments until the end of the loan if Mrs I was sick, and for up to 12 months per 
claim if she became unemployed. It wouldve allowed them to use Mr Is income to 
meet their other household expenses. I accept that their family may have wanted to 
help out with their repayments if they fell on hard times, but help of this kind cant 
always be guaranteed, so I havent placed any reliance on this.
Mr and Mrs I ended their loan early. But it seems the policy provided a proportional 
refund. So, I cant see that Mr and Mrs I have lost out because of this.
 
Taking everything into account, I cant see that Mr and Mrs I have lost out because of 
how Nationwide sold them the PPI. I have taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs I 
said, but this doesn't change my view. The paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional, 
so it wasn't necessary for either of them to be covered by PPI. As regards having separate PPI policies running, this policy covered this loan. If Mr and Mrs I had any other borrowing, 
this policy wouldn't have covered that other borrowing.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman