DRN-3017978
The complaint
Ms B complains that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance, (PPI), 
policy. Its been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept responsibility for the 
sale. For simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Ms B took out the PPI at the same time as taking out a store card in 1996. The sale took 
place at the store. Following a successful claim, each month the insurance would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on Ms Bs store card had she been unable to work because 
of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. And these payments would have been 
made until she could return to work or, if sooner, the balance had been cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Ms B disagreed, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive followed this in making my decision in Ms Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Ms B says she was told she would save money if she took out the store card. And she says 
that nothing was explained about the PPI. She thinks that it was just added. However, on 
balance, I think that Ms B knew that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say 
this because I dont think that I can reasonably rely solely on Ms Bs recollection of what 
happened over 25 years ago. And Ive seen the store card application form signed by her. 
This has a section in it dealing with PPI. I can see that there is a tick in the box in this section 
requesting PPI. Below this section is another section dealing with another type of cover. I 
can see that the box there hasnt been ticked. Its possible that Ms B didnt complete the 
application form herself. But, in that case, I think its likely that the store assistant would have 
discussed these two types of cover with Ms B before completing the form that way. And 
Ms B would have had the opportunity to check the application before signing it and could 
have questioned the request for the PPI if she hadnt wanted it
AXA didnt advise Ms B to take the policy, so it would have been up to her to make the 
decision. But AXA still had to give Ms B clear, fair and not-misleading information about the 
PPI so she could make an informed decision as to whether it was suitable for her needs. Its 
possible the information AXA gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But she chose to take out the policy  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And, knowing what I do about her circumstances at the time and the terms of the policy, she 
was eligible for it. And she wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limits  such as 
those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition. And the monthly benefits 
following a successful claim would have been paid in addition to any sick pay or savings 
Ms B may have had. So it could have been useful to her if something went wrong. So I dont 
think better information about it would have changed Ms Bs mind and stopped her buying it. 
So I find that Ms B hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done wrong 
during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman