DRN-4315503
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the early repayment charge (ERC) he incurred when he 
redeemed his mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money.
He feels it is unfair that such a large ERC was charged when his fixed rate mortgage product 
was so close to the end of its term.
What happened
Mr O took out this mortgage in February 2018. The mortgage offer dated 29 December 2017 
indicated the rate was fixed at 2.28% until 1 April 2023, with an ERC being due if the 
mortgage was repaid before that date.
The ERC was explained as:
If you transfer to a new mortgage product with Virgin Money plc or repay your mortgage in 
full before 1 April 2023 (the Early Repayment Charge period), you will be charged an Early 
Repayment Charge.
The Early Repayment Charge is calculated as 4.00% of the outstanding loan balance at 
the date when either the loan is repaid or you transfer to a new mortgage product.
In January 2023 Mr O was moving house and was taking a new mortgage with a different 
lender. He complained to Virgin Money about the ERC, and Virgin Money didnt uphold the 
complaint.
One of our Investigators looked at the complaint. She said the ERC was outlined in the 
mortgage offer, and it isnt calculated just on the amount of interest that would have been 
charged for the remaining term.
Mr O didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr Os particular situation. When I do that, Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have been readily 
understandable to Mr O; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a manner 
that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr O knew  or at least should have 
known  how much hed have to pay if he repaid the mortgage before 1 April 2023. 
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB). 
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Virgin Money is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost 
to it of Mr O ending his own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of 
early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Virgin Money is allowed to project how 
many customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point 
theyre likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For 
some individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be 
an under-calculation. But thats allowed; Virgin Money doesnt have to refund the difference, 
but equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
Virgin Money has provided us with evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this 
group of mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Virgin Money has 
provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and 
so I wont be disclosing it to Mr O. 
The information from Virgin Money shows that it takes into account a number of factors 
when estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown 
of the figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. It 
shows that the ERC reflects its costs of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial 
instruments that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future 
losses. Ive looked carefully at what Virgin Money has said and I consider it is a fair way to 
calculate the ERC.
Mr O has said If Virgin can demonstrate that they have incurred all of these costs then I will 
of course accept the ruling, however, if Virgin have incurred costs at any amount less than 
what I have paid then I think it is only fair that the difference is repaid to me.
As Ive explained above, the ERC isnt set based on the unrecoverable interest costs for 
each mortgage in isolation as that wouldnt be possible to know in advance and the ERC 
must be known in advance as it must be shown in the mortgage offer. It also takes into 
account other unrecoverable costs.
Virgin Money couldnt have known, in 2018, that Mr O would choose to end his mortgage 
early, when he would choose to do so, and that interest rates would be at the level they are now at the point Mr O chose to end the mortgage. Equally, things could have gone a 
different way, with Mr O choosing to end his mortgage early in the term and at a time interest 
rates were lower than when he took out his mortgage. In that instance Virgin Money wouldnt 
make Mr O pay more to cover any additional potential losses, and equally Virgin Money isnt 
expected to refund any difference if it goes the other way.
As I said above, in some instances the ERC will be too much and in others it will be too 
little. That is allowed under the rules as long as, at the point it was set, the ERC was a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the potential loss the lender would incur upon early repayment in 
line with the regulatory guidance in MCOB. Here Im satisfied it was.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied: 
Virgin Money was entitled to charge Mr O the ERC set out in his mortgage contract 
when he repaid his mortgage early. 
There was no requirement for Virgin Money to only charge an amount worked out based 
on Mr Os individual mortgage and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to charge 
an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of 
mortgages of similar type. 
Virgin Money didnt have to treat Mr O any differently to any of its other customers that 
redeemed their mortgage whilst there was an ERC in force.
For all the reasons given I dont think Virgin Money acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman