DRN-4169742
The complaint
Mr B complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) transferred his pension at a lower 
value than he understood his plan to worth. He asks to be compensated for the difference.
What happened
Mr B held a personal pension with Aviva which he decided to transfer to another provider. 
He signed the appropriate documentation and then checked his pension online to observe 
when the transfer completed.
Mr B noted the value of his pension plan when it left the Aviva platform and was surprised 
and disappointed to find the transfer value was approximately £3,000 less than he expected.
On 3 January 2023, he complained to Aviva.
On 6 January 2023, Aviva issued its final response. It said it adopts a policy of using the 
value at the transfer request date from the receiving provider. It said it carried out the 
transfer in accordance with the transfer request date and its own policies and procedures.
It did note, however, that the transfer was completed six days later when it should have only 
taken 5 days. As such it paid Mr B interest on the fund for the extra day and offered £25 by 
way of an apology.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. In his view Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably 
and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr B remained dissatisfied. He feels the actions Aviva have taken are not in line with the 
new Consumer Duty policy changes introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
He accepts companies are not yet duty bound but feels this service should have considered 
this within the merits of his complaint. He asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive independently reached the same conclusion as the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, Ill 
explain why.
I can well understand Mr Bs position, after all the value of his pension plan on the date it 
actually transferred out was seemingly higher than the date Aviva backdated it to so I can 
see why it seems unfair to him that he has actually transferred a lower value.
But the policy adopted by Aviva is consistent, it uses the date of the transfer request by the 
receiving scheme in all cases. So, if the value had been higher after backdating the transfer 
the date of the transfer request in this case 7 December 2022, Aviva would have paid a 
higher value.
I also carefully considered the terms and conditions which say:
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions.
Section 8.2 How we work out the value of your funds, states:
We multiply the number of units in your plan by the unit prices for the working day we
receive at our administration headquarters, the last of the documents and information we
need to transfer the plan.
I can understand why Mr B feels Aviva has gained the difference in value, but as our 
investigator said, Aviva explained that the £3,000 was never effectively in the fund as it was 
deemed settled on 7 December 2022.
So, Im not persuaded that Mr B lost out on the higher notional value, because he received 
the value based on the date Avivas requirements were met, in-line with the terms and 
conditions. So, I cant fairly say that Aviva have one anything wrong as it followed its own 
policy and procedure.
I can see Aviva picked up that the transfer had taken a day longer than it would have 
expected and has acknowledged that delay by paying interest on the amount and offering 
£25 by way of an apology which again Im persuaded is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B doesnt feel Avivas terms and conditions are in the spirit of the new 
consumer duty but that isnt something I can consider or apply to this complaint as it hasnt 
yet come into effect. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman