DRN-2035177
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about what happened when he asked American Express Services Europe
Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) to get some money back for him, for an online purchase he says
never arrived.
What happened
Mr W bought an item on a popular online auction site, and paid for it through a popular e-
money provider, with close links to that site. But Mr W said he never got the item he bought.
It was delivered to a neighbour with whom he has a poor relationship and who claims never
to have received it. Mr W provided the order summary showing his correct address and a
letter from the courier confirming that they delivered it to a close, but different, address.
Mr W told us hed asked AmEx to make a chargeback request. But it said it wouldnt do that.
Mr W didnt think that was fair.
AmEx said it had opened a chargeback request for Mr W. But the merchant had told it that
the item was delivered to the correct address. And the two properties share a common
entrance. So AmEx didnt find in Mr Ws favour. Mr W then said that the signature wasnt his
and provided a copy of his passport, but AmEx didnt change its mind.
At first, our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that given the
evidence from the courier, it seemed most likely that the item had been delivered to Mr Ws
neighbour, not to him. Our investigator didnt think it was reasonable for AmEx to say that
both addresses have the same door. He knew that the mistake about the address hadnt
been made by the seller, but our investigator said Mr W didnt seem to have his item.
Our investigator thought this chargeback shouldve been resolved in Mr Ws favour. So he
said AmEx should either process the chargeback now, or give Mr W a credit. And it should
refund charges or interest that had been applied and remove any negative credit information.
AmEx replied. It still didnt think it was likely that the package had gone astray. It put
considerable weight on the address on the package itself. But AmEx also said that when it
started the chargeback process, the merchant provided evidence to say that the parcel had
been delivered. Mr W then provided evidence which AmEx said questioned some of the
previous evidence, but didnt clearly demonstrate what had happened. It said that the
chargeback process isnt designed to cover this. AmEx said Mr W may now be able to get a
refund from the online auction site.
Our investigator then changed his mind. He still thought that Mr W hadnt got his item. But he
said AmEx had closed its chargeback case, before Mr W had received the additional
evidence about where the package was delivered. And our investigator thought AmExs
obligation to Mr W ended with the chargeback process.
Mr W wrote again to comment on AmExs representations to us. He said that AmEx had
assumed, because the seller sent a picture of the parcel with the correct address, that the
parcel still had this correct address when it was delivered. He said if he wasnt in, then the
courier shouldve left a card, not given the item to a neighbour. He thought the case
breached contract law, and that the courier had failed to fulfil its duties. He said he hadnt
been treated fairly by AmEx, and as a result he was at significant financial loss, and
potentially had a negative marker on his account.
Mr W wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then:
 AmEx opened a chargeback request for Mr W. It didnt also raise a section 75 
query. I dont think a section 75 query was appropriate, because of how Mr W 
bought this item, so I dont think it had to do that too.
AmEx then spoke to the seller of the items, who was able to confirm that shed sent 
the item to the correct address. There was proof of delivery. AmEx wrote to Mr W 
then, saying that he needed to reply with further evidence by 10 December, or it 
would close his complaint.
Mr W did reply, on 3 December. So his complaint wasnt closed on 10 December. 
This is important, as Mr W says he then sent AmEx further evidence on 11 
December, which is before AmEx wrote to him again. He said he sent AmEx an 
email, in which the courier company accepted that his item had been wrongly 
delivered. The courier company had included an additional character on the 
address, and it accepted in an email that this extra character meant the item went to 
Mr Ws neighbour. AmEx hasnt included this email in its evidence from Mr W, but it 
has included the proof of the incorrect address.
AmEx then wrote to Mr W on 12 December to say that his additional evidence did 
not prove to be sufficient for us to prove your claim so it wouldnt ask the merchant 
about this again.
AmEx has provided further responses to our service since then. Those responses 
suggest AmEx looked in detail at this case once our service asked it to do so. 
Unfortunately, its not clear that AmEx fully and properly reviewed its decision not to 
proceed with the chargeback request when it received Mr Ws further evidence. I 
also note that AmEx still continues to insist that nothing has gone wrong with the 
delivery of the item Mr W ordered. It is difficult to understand why AmEx would 
continue to argue that Mr Ws item has been delivered, when the courier responsible 
for that delivery accepts it was not.
I think that AmEx shouldve fully and properly reviewed Mr Ws evidence when he 
submitted it. I think that the further evidence Mr W sent added considerable 
additional weight to Mr Ws arguments, and this ought to have been further explored 
at the time.
I dont necessarily think that AmEx wouldve decided to uphold this chargeback if it 
had done that, and I dont think its appropriate for me to simply substitute my 
decision for theirs. I also think its too late now to ask AmEx to reopen this case.
But I think if AmEx had carried out a proper review at the right time, then that may 
ultimately have resulted in Mr Ws chargeback claim being upheld. I think there 
was a reasonable chance of success. So I dont think it would be appropriate to 
award Mr W all of what hes lost. But I do think that awarding him 50% of what he was trying to recover would fairly reflect the lost chance of a successful 
chargeback in this case. Thats £868.10.
I dont think AmEx should also pay interest and charges that Mr W has incurred on 
his card for this purchase. Mr W would always have had to pay those if his item 
had been successfully delivered. But I do think, because AmEx made mistakes in 
this case, it should also pay Mr W £100 in compensation. I think that would provide 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) must pay Mr W 
a total of £968.10.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman