DRN-3288742
The complaint
Mr S complains that Crowdcube Capital Limted (Crowdcube) failed to disclose important
information regarding an investment opportunity on its crowdfunding platform.
What happened
Crowdcube is an equity-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a 
company and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding 
whether to invest. These investment opportunities tend to be in small, early-stage companies 
that are looking to raise capital in return for equity.
In February 2016 Crowdcube ran a fundraising campaign for investment into a company Ill
call Company A. Company A applied to campaign via Crowdcubes sprint programme,
which focused on early-stage companies looking to raise equity for the first time and looking
to raise between £20,000 and £150,000.
Mr S, an associate director of Company A, invested £50,000 into Company A during this
fundraising campaign. As the campaign approached the original £150,000 target and
following discussions with the director of Company A, the decision was made to allow the
company to overfund and it ended up raising around £180,000.
Crowdcube emailed all investors, including Mr S, in May 2016 after the campaign had closed
but, importantly, before the investment had become legally binding and before funds had
been released to Company A. The email explained that a loan agreement existed between
Company A and its director for around £125,000. The email explained that, whilst the loan
was repayable in full by Company A within 60 days written notice, Company A intended to
repay it in instalments in lieu of salary for the director. Crowdcube said that Company A
confirmed that it wouldnt use the funds raised to pay the directors loan. The email explained
investors could raise any questions directly with Company As director via their email
address and Crowdcube asked investors to let it know via email by 5pm on 23 May 2016
whether they wanted to cancel their investment. If no email was received then their 
investments would become legally binding. Mr S didnt contact Crowdcube and so his
investment in Company A proceeded.
Company A filed for insolvency in May 2017 and became fully dissolved in November 2018.
Mr S contacted our service in October 2019 to raise a complaint about Crowdcube. In
summary he said should be refunded his £50,000 investment as:
Crowdcube failed to check Company As financial history and validate its valuation.
Crowdcube unfairly allowed Company A to raise finance to pay off debt as £60,000 
was paid to the director in respect of the director loan.
Crowdcube failed to disclose to investors that investment in Company A was 
fundraising by way of the sprint programme and it unfairly allowed Company A to 
raise more than the programmes limit of £150,000.
Our service forwarded on Mr S complaint to Crowdcube for it to respond. Crowdcube
considered his complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
Crowdcube made it clear to investors that it didnt verify financial information relating 
to Company A and that it doesnt approve or validate valuations of companies that 
raise on the platform.
A copy of the directors loan agreement was circulated to all investors in the cooling 
off email. Company A gave assurances that the funds raised would not be used to 
repay the directors loan but its unfair for it to be held responsible for how the funds 
were used post-funding. This is because it doesnt have any ongoing powers in 
relation to the management of the company or use of the funds.
The sprint programme was developed, advertised and administered by Crowdcube 
and so any limits or policies were therefore at its discretion. As is often the case with 
early stage companies, applying a one size fits all model was not necessarily 
beneficial to the raising company, investors or Crowdcube and so some flex was 
used to allow additional funding to Company A.
An investigator at our service looked into Mr S complaint and felt it should be upheld. She
said Crowdcube had a regulatory obligation to ensure the promotion of the investment in
Company A was clear, fair and not misleading. She noted that Company A had provided
Crowdcube with financial information as part of the sprint programme eligibility checks which
suggested that Company A had little in the way of savings or working capital to be able to
repay the loan. Whilst she didnt think Crowdcube needed to check Company As financials,
as no information about this was included in the pitch, when the existence of the directors
loan emerged she felt this was important information which Crowdcube ought to have
disclosed to Mr S.
The investigator considered whether Mr S decision to invest would have changed had
Crowdcube provided this information and concluded that it would have. She said Mr S had
confirmed he had no access to Company As financials and that he was told by Company
As director that the running costs were under £8,000 per month. This reassured him that the
funds raised would have been sufficient to develop the company. So she was satisfied Mr S
would have reconsidered investing if he was aware of the increased investment risk posed
by the loan in the context of Company As financial standing and recommended Crowdcube
pay him back his £50,000 investment.
Mr S accepted the investigators opinion but Crowdcube didnt. In summary it said:
The sprint programme eligibility checks were to ascertain whether Company A was 
suitable to participate in the programme i.e. what stage it was at, but the answers 
didnt form part of Crowdcubes due diligence on Company A  hence why no 
evidence was requested to substantiate Company As financial position.
It gave investors risk warnings to make them aware that company financials arent 
something which it insists upon for early-stage companies as its often difficult to draw 
meaningful conclusions from limited trading history.
The financials in the sprint programme eligibility form were unverified and so it didnt 
agree that it should have presented this information to investors after the existence of 
the loan emerged. It also added that this information was given in February 2016 and 
so would have been outdated at the time the cooling off email was sent in May 2016.
Mr S was employed by Company A, working closely with the director and was a 
cornerstone investor  his investment representing almost a third of total raise  and 
so he was in an advantageous position to have asked Company A any questions 
directly about its financials.As no agreement could be reached, Crowdcube asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision on the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision In December 2021, explaining why I didnt intend to uphold 
this complaint. I include this below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To determine this complaint, its important to understand the role and relationship
Crowdcube has with Mr S as an investor. Crowdcubes investor terms from around the time
Mr S invested in Company A, set out the terms and conditions forming the basis of this
relationship. These explained:
8.1. The Investor acknowledges and accepts that the Website includes a forum
which is an integral part of an Investee's Pitch which is intended as a service to
Investees to put them in contact with Investors, and thus that Crowdcube's
investigation of the Investees and the content of their Pitches is limited, and
accordingly Crowdcube makes no warranty or representation and assumes no
liability in respect of the Investees or the content of their Pitches. The Investor must
make his own assessment of the viability, accuracy and prospects of the Investees,
their Pitches, and any relevant investment propositions and should consult his
professional advisers should he require any assistance in making such an
assessment or should the Investor require any services whatsoever in connection
with Crowdcube. In particular, the attention of the Investors is drawn to the
disclaimer, risk warning and regulatory notice on each Pitch
8.3. The Investor acknowledges that Crowdcube does not provide the Investor with
any advice or recommendations in relation to investments. Nevertheless it is typically
considered prudent for Investors to consider spreading their risk over multiple
investments and Crowdcube encourages this approach
 8.4. The Investor acknowledges that in approving the Pitch as a financial
promotion, Crowdcube has concluded that the Pitch, taken as a whole in the context
of the above, is fair, clear and not misleading. The Investor acknowledges that
Crowdcube has reviewed any factual statements included within the Pitch and
obtained evidence of their accuracy from the Investee. However, the Investor's
attention is drawn to the fact that the evidence is obtained from the Investee itself
and has not been audited by Crowdcube, which means that it may contain
inaccuracies, be incomplete or be a forgery.
Its clear from the investor terms that Crowdcube provides potential investors with different
investment opportunities by way of pitches and it will ensure the pitch is fair, clear and not
misleading by checking any factual statements included within it. Importantly, Crowdcube 
gives no advice or recommendations to its investors. So ultimately, the decision to invest is
made at the investors own risk and Crowdcube encourages them to do their own research
into each company.
Ive also taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Crowdcube. At the time of
promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised and regulated
by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow
are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As promotional material, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself
that the material itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied
that by approving the promotion and allowing Mr S to invest in Company A, it would continue
to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the promotional material itself, Crowdcube needed to carry out reasonable checks.
What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is
something which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to
the particular circumstances. Mr S says Crowdcube failed to ensure the pitch was fair, clear
and not misleading as it didnt check Company As financial history, nor did it validate its
valuation. In terms of the valuation of Company A, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable
to expect Crowdcube to verify this. I say this as private companies, such as Company A,
don't tend to report all of their financials publicly, and since there's no stock listed on an
exchange, it's often difficult to determine the value for the company. Crowdcube also makes
it clear in its due diligence charter that it doesnt check company valuations:
Whilst we do provide guidance on valuations, it is the companys decision to price
their investment offer and ultimately the crowd then decides if they are willing to
invest at that price.
A key point for Mr S is the lack of due diligence performed by Crowdcube on Company As
financials due to the campaign being part of the sprint programme. Ive seen a copy of the
sprint programme advertisement and can confirm there is no mention of the level of due
diligence Crowdcube will perform on companies campaigning this way. However, 
Crowdcube has confirmed that a key feature of this scheme was that Crowdcube would not
approve claims within the pitch containing financial information, as there was limited
supporting evidence for these statements. This restriction meant that the pitch focused on
the key aspect of an investee companys business, rather than extraneous financial
information which was likely to be limited due to the early nature of the company.
Im aware that Crowdcube did have a limited understanding of the companys financial
position. Company A had disclosed some financial information in the sprint programme
eligibility form it submitted prior to the campaign going live. Company A listed on this formthat it had between £15,000 and £30,000 in its bank, £25,000 working capital and over
£30,000 in debt. Crowdcube says it asked for these details so it could check whether
Company A was suitable for the sprint programme and it didnt form part of its due diligence
checks on Company A. Crowdcube needed to ensure that the pitch was fair, clear and not
misleading, so if any financials had been mentioned in the pitch, then those would have
needed to have been checked. But the pitch didnt contain any financials. And the little
information which Crowdcube did obtain wasnt for the purposes of promoting the investment
or to share with investors. Rather, it was purely to establish whether Company A was eligible
to raise funds through the sprint programme based on the criteria it had set. For these
reasons, Im persuaded that in this particular case, Crowdcube wasnt required to carry out
due diligence on the financials which Company A provided.
Ive also thought carefully about whether Crowdcube ought to have disclosed the limited
financial information it had about Company A in the cooling off email sent in May 2016. But
having done so, I dont agree with the investigators findings that it should have. The email
made investors aware that there was an existing loan between Company A and its director.
It included a copy of the loan agreement so all investors could see the terms of the loan.
Crowdcube explained that the loan had since increased from £100,000 to just under
£125,000. It also made investors aware that the loan was repayable in full by Company A
with 60 days written notice from the director. Crowdcube added that Company A intended to
repay the loan in instalments in lieu of the directors salary and that Company A confirmed it
would not use the funds raised for this purpose. This is all key information which an investor
would need to consider in order to make an informed decision as to whether they proceeded
with the investment or not.
I accept theres an argument that Crowdcube could have also explained in the email that it
had been provided with limited financial information which suggested Company A had little in
the way of savings or working capital. But I dont think this omittance renders the
communication misleading. Ive also considered that the information provided by Company A
was outdated and unverified and I dont think the existence of the loan meant that
Crowdcube needed to then perform due diligence checks on Company As financials. As Ive
previously said, there were no financial claims made in the pitch and the same is true of the
cooling off email. The email said Company A intended to repay the loan in instalments but
no claims about its ability to do so were made. If they had, then again I think this would be
something Id likely say Crowdcube ought to have checked. I think its also relevant to
consider that most that most companies looking to raise capital via crowdfunding tend to
have precarious financial information  and if the financial stability of Company A was
important to Mr S, he ought to have made his own enquiries, or decided not to go ahead
given the absence of any of this information.
Mr S decided to proceed without being given any financial information and despite being told
about the existence of a sizeable loan which could be paid back and very short notice. It was
a clear risk which he was made aware of and decided to take anyway. As a result, I dont
agree that the absence of specific information rendered this a misleading promotion.
Its unfortunate if Mr S comments are true regarding Company A using the raised funds to
pay the back the directors loan. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold
Crowdcube responsible for what is essentially a dispute between shareholders and the
director of Company A. By sending the cooling off email, I think Crowdcube did enough to
put Mr S on notice that the loan existed. No assurances where given by Crowdcube that it
had measures in place to prevent the funds being used to pay off the directors loan.
Crowdcube simply relayed what information it had been given by Company A and it was
then for Mr S to decide whether or not he wanted to take the risk in continuing with the
investment.As I previously mentioned, Crowdcube made Mr S aware in its investor terms that he should
make his own assessment of the viability, accuracy and prospects of Company A by way of
his own research. I think it was especially important in Mr S case that he did this considering
the amount he was investing in relation to the size of the overall raise. I understand Mr S has
stressed that, although he was made aware by Company As director that the raise was
going to be done by way of the sprint programme, he didnt know what this entailed. He says
he only found out after Company A failed that investee companies wouldnt be subject to the
same level of due diligence on the sprint programme. Whilst the sprint programme meant
that Company A was prevented from including financial details in the pitch - which I accept
Mr S may not have been aware of - the same investor terms still applied. And, as outlined
above, these terms set out the extent of Crowdcubes due diligence - it would review any
factual statements included within the pitch and obtain evidence of their accuracy. As there
were no factual statements about Company As financials in the pitch, Mr S ought to have
been aware that Crowdcube hadnt conducted any checks regarding this, despite not
knowing what the restrictions of sprint programme were.
If Company As ability to repay the directors loan was a significant consideration in Mr S
decision to invest, then I wouldve expected him to have made such enquiries with
Crowdcube or Company A. Mr S says his knowledge of Company As financials were limited
and that he was assured the money raised would be sufficient to cover 18 months
development. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest he made specific enquiries into
Company As ability to repay the loan. Im also aware that Mr S unique position as a
cornerstone investor and having an associate director role in Company A meant that he was
better placed than other investors to find out financial information if he had any concerns.
I also acknowledge Mr S concerns regarding Crowdcube allowing Company A to exceed the
raise limit of £150,000 prescribed in the sprint programme. Its not uncommon for
crowdfunding campaigns to overfund if there is still demand from investors. I appreciate the
sprint programme was targeted at investee companies looking to raise no more than
£150,000, but ultimately this was a self-imposed limit by Crowdcube, and it had discretion to
change this. The pitch was updated on Crowdcubes website to show it had overfunded and
I think its more likely than not, because of Mr S relationship with Company A, that he was
aware that Crowdcube had allowed Company A to overfund. And he was still happy to
continue with his investment despite this.
I also think it was in Mr S best interests for Crowdcube to allow Company A to overfund as it
meant more funds were available to it to develop as an early-stage company. Mr S also had
exactly the same rights as those who invested after Company A began overfunding, albeit it
would have diluted his shareholding. But Mr S main concern about the overfunding appears
to be focused more so on the level of due diligence Crowdcube ought to have conducted.
But even if Crowdcube had known prior to Company As campaign that it was going to raise
more and removed it from the sprint programme, there would still be no requirement for
Company A to include financial information in its pitch. So I dont think allowing Company A
to overfund had any bearing on the level of due diligence Crowdcube performed.
For me, the key issue in Mr S case isnt about the financials or what was disclosed. Rather,
its that Company A initially promised it wouldnt use the funds to pay back the directors
loan, but Mr S says it subsequently decided to do so. But Ive considered that Mr S knew
about the loan, he knew about the terms of the loan and he knew there was nothing
preventing Company A from doing what he says it eventually did. He made no enquiries
about any of the above at the time  and chose to invest anyway. And Im satisfied theres
nothing Crowdcube knew about Company As intentions which it didnt disclose. So taking
into account all of the above, Im satisfied Crowdcubes promotion of Company A was fair,
clear and not misleading and it was in Mr S best interests to allow him to invest in Company
A.Responses to my provisional decision
Crowdcube accepted my provisional findings but Mr S didnt. In summary, he said:
He never received the cooling off email from May 2016 and questioned whether our 
service had seen a copy of a distribution list, as he says his email hasnt been 
verified.
The existence of the loan amounted to a major change in the structure of the 
investment and Crowdcube failed to communicate this effectively and didnt get 
acceptance from him regarding changing the terms of the deal. He added that 
Crowdcube ought to have employed a positive opt-in option in the email rather than 
an opt-out one and followed up any non-response with a letter or phone call. 
The idea that Company A has said it will not use the funds raised to pay the loan is a 
false reassurance on behalf of Crowdcube, as once the deal had been done 
Crowdcube couldnt enforce this.
It seems that Crowdcube agreed a deviation to the terms of the directors loan 
agreement allowing the director to pay in instalments and questioned whether our 
service had seen a copy of the loan agreement.
His account has been marked down as having paid prior to the cooling off email 
being sent and without a registered bank account being added. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat the findings I made in my provisional decision  they are set out 
above and I dont consider the information Mr S has provided in response to that provisional 
decision makes a material difference to what Ive previously said. However, I will cover Mr S 
additional points hes raised. 
Whilst I cannot say why Mr S didnt receive the cooling off email from Crowdcube, Im 
satisfied that it was sent to him. I say this as Ive seen screenshots from the cooling off email 
confirmation page from Crowdcubes internal system which shows the email addresses of all 
investors that were sent the email. This confirms that Crowdcube sent the email to Mr S 
correct email address on 12 May 2016 just after 4pm. Crowdcube has also confirmed that 
the email verification process Mr S has commented on was implemented in 2019, ahead of 
changes to customer verification rules. Therefore, Mr S was not required to verify his email 
address in 2016 and this would not have prevented him from receiving the email.
I understand Mr S feels strongly that Crowdcube unfairly allowed the investment to proceed 
when there had been a material change. He says Crowdcube also ought to have provided 
an opt-in option and followed up with a call or letter if no response had been received. 
However, I dont think Crowdcubes actions were unfair or unreasonable. Crowdcubes terms 
and conditions at the time of Mr S investing explained the following regarding the investment 
process:
5.3. If a Pitch is successful, the Investee will instruct Crowdcube to circulate a copy 
of the Investee's proposed Articles of Association, bond instrument or fund 
documentation to each Investor by email, and to request that each Investor inform 
Crowdcube by email within the time period specified in the email if they no longer 
wish to proceed with the Investment. If Crowdcube receives no response from the 
Investor within the specified time period, the Investor will be deemed to have confirmed his order and the Investee will accept his order and such order will become 
an irrevocable firm order upon expiry of the time period set out in the email [].
Crowdcube said it would communicate the order confirmation via email and so it followed the 
its terms in Mr S case. And the fact it didnt follow this up with a call or letter doesnt lead me 
to think it did something wrong. 
Ive also considered what the FCA said in its July 2018 consultation paper on loan-based 
(peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: 
We expect platforms to complete any necessary due diligence before they market 
investments to investors. In addition, the platform may become aware of new 
information that materially affects the borrowers credit risk after it has finalised its 
due diligence process, but before money has been irrevocably committed by 
investors. In this case and under the Principles of Businesses (PRIN), and the clients 
best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1R), we expect platforms to give investors the option 
not to proceed with the investment, as the conditions they based their investment 
decision on have changed.
As explained above, I note Mr S says he shouldve been asked to actively opt-in rather than 
opt-out but as the consultation paper sets out, Crowdcube needed only to provide investors 
with an opportunity to not proceed. And Im satisfied the email Crowdcube sent Mr S did give 
him an option to withdraw.
Mr S has commented on the fact that Crowdcube couldnt ensure that the funds raised from 
the investment in Company A wouldnt be used to pay off the directors loan. But as I 
mentioned in my provisional findings, this was a risk which Crowdcube made Mr S aware of 
in the cooling off email and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold
Crowdcube responsible for what is essentially a dispute between shareholders and the
director of Company A.
Regarding the directors loan agreement, I can confirm Ive seen a copy of the loan 
agreement and it was included in the cooling off email. Theres no evidence to suggest 
Crowdcube agreed to any deviation to the terms of this loan agreement as it wasnt a party 
to this agreement. 
Finally, Ive also considered Mr S concerns regarding his payments details and the timing of 
the payments being prior to the cooling off email. But having done so, it hasnt led me to 
change my findings. Crowdcube has confirmed that payments are either satisfied via a card 
payment which is taken via a third-party payment provider or in certain circumstances 
(usually where the amount of the investment is large and/or the investor is close to the 
company) the investor transfers funds to the company directly. In Mr S case he transferred 
the funds for his investment directly to Company A and Crowdcube marked it as pledged in 
its payment records manually when it received confirmation from Company A that it had 
received the funds. Crowdcube has provided internal screenshots to show this was on 25 
May 2016  after it had sent the cooling off email. So not having Mr S bank account details 
registered with Crowdcube had no bearing on his investment, it was his decision to transfer 
directly and the payment was received after the cooling off email was sent. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint against Crowdcube Capital Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman