DRN-2582905
The complaint
Mr R says Loans 2 Go Limited gave him a loan that was unaffordable, and it failed to make 
clear how much it would cost him to repay it.  
What happened
Mr R took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go on 24 March 2019. It was for 
£250 and the monthly repayments were £57.14. The total repayable was £1028.52. I 
understand the loan remains outstanding.
Mr R says Loans 2 Go didnt check he could afford the loan, and the amount repayable is 
extortionate compared to the amount he borrowed. This wasnt made clear. When he 
contacted Loans 2 Go to say he was having problems with the repayments he says their 
advice was to extend the loan further increasing repayments, without checking his personal 
finances to see if he could repay an extended loan. 
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. He said Loans 2 Go hadnt 
completed proportionate checks and had it done so it ought to have realised the loan was 
most likely not sustainably affordable for Mr R.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying, in summary, its checks were proportionate given the size of 
the loan and the results from Mr Rs credit check. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr R required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr R. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr R. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Rs loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr R before it approved the loan. It 
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It then completed an income verification 
check with a third party and adjusted his declared expenditure to ensure it was reasonable. It 
checked Mr Rs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit 
history. I cant see it asked about the purpose of the loan. From these checks combined 
Loans 2 Go concluded the loan was affordable for Mr R.
It argues that given the value of the loan and the fact Mr Rs credit file showed he was up-to-
date with his credit repayments, or had settled debts, and his outstanding debt was only 
£190.80 there was no reason to complete further checks. And to do so would have been 
treating Mr R unfairly.  
Im not persuaded the checks were proportionate or borrower-focused. Mr R was applying 
for a loan over a term of 18 months and although the monthly repayments were low as a 
percentage of his income, Loans 2 Go knew from his credit file that he had active payday 
loans, was almost at his overdraft limit and in the months prior to his application had been 
borrowing frequently from high-cost short-term lenders. I am not saying that this meant it 
should have decided at that point not to lend to Mr R, but it should have prompted Loans 2 
Go to make further checks to independently verify Mr Rs overall financial situation. 
I have looked at copies of Mr Rs to bank statements to see what better checks would have 
shown. Im not saying Loans 2 Go needed to have done this, but its one way to understand 
what a fuller financial review might have shown.As the adjudicator said, the bank statements showed Mr R was heavily reliant on payday 
loans in the months prior to his application. So whilst Loans 2 Go argues Mr R wasnt heavily 
indebted, it was clear he was borrowing to repay regularly. He was also spending a 
significant percentage of his income on gambling each month. I think these facts together 
would have indicated to Loans 2 Go that Mr R was having problems managing his money. 
And it would be unlikely he could sustain his loan repayments for 18 months without some 
suffering some kind of financial detriment. This was what Loans 2 Go needed to check to 
meet its regulatory obligations as CONC 5.2A.12(R) states:
 
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement: 
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-
end agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following: (a) the customers income;  (b) income 
from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income received 
by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in so 
far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make 
repayments under the agreement; and/or (c) savings or other assets where the customer 
has indicated clearly an intention to repay (wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory 
obligation to make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation.
So, in summary, as a responsible lender I dont think Loans 2 Go would have made the 
same lending decision had it carried out proportionate, borrower-focused checks. It would 
have realised there was a high risk the loan was not sustainably affordable for Mr R. He 
went on to have problems making his repayments within one month of the loan starting. 
Loans 2 Go says that if Mr R had supplied the correct information at the point of application, 
and the loan showed as unaffordable, it would not have lent to him. But this doesnt not 
change my conclusion. The inaccuracies in Mr Rs income and expenditure disclosure do not 
relieve Loans 2 Go of its obligations to ensure the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr R.  
It follows I think Mr R has lost out as result of Loans 2 Gos decision. 
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Mr R says Loans 2 Go failed to make clear the 
repayment terms of his loan. But I can see from the pre-contract credit information and the 
loan agreement - both of which Mr R signed electronically - that the monthly repayment, the 
loan term and total cost for credit were set out clearly, alongside the APR and the interest 
rate. 
Mr R also complains that the interest rate was extortionate. I accept it was high, but Mr R 
had to actively engage in the loan application process, so I think its likely that he was aware 
of what he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 
Go treated Mr R unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. But in any 
event, the interest and charges will be refunded as Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have 
been given.
Mr R also said that Loans 2 Go did not treat him sympathetically when he experienced
difficulties repaying his loan, rather it offered to extend his borrowing. Loans 2 Gos records 
show it agreed to split his first missed payment (at the end of April 2019) over the subsequent three months but its not clear what was discussed on this call, or how this would 
have affected the total he had to repay. Based on the available evidence I dont know if Mr R 
notified the lender of his financial difficulties at this stage, or if Loans 2 G did everything it 
should have at that time. When Mr R complained two months later saying the loan was 
unaffordable, the lender asked Mr R for his updated income and expenditure information to 
try to set up an arrangement to pay. I cant see Mr R provided this (he gave revised 
information but from the time of the application). So it seems Loans 2 Go continued with its 
collections activity. I do think as a responsible lender it should have done more to help Mr R 
at this stage, but I dont think any remedial action is needed over and above what it must do 
because it incorrectly approved the loan.
Putting things right
 I think its fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been provided to him. 
It seems Loans 2 Go hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt 
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr R 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Rs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 2 Go 
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Loans 2 
Go should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has already 
written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman