DRN-2564426
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) 
repossessed two properties that he had mortgaged with them in 2008, then sold them for 
much less than the outstanding mortgages. BM is now pursuing him for the shortfall.
What happened
Mr A told us he bought two buy-to-let properties in April 2005. They were mortgaged with 
BM. The properties were repossessed, and were sold in December 2008. Mr A wanted to 
complain that the properties were sold for less than the mortgaged amounts. He wanted to 
know what BM had done to try to ensure that the best price was achieved for both 
properties. And he said that it had taken BM more than six years to pursue him for this debt, 
so he thought the debts were now time barred. 
Mr A didnt think he should have to pay the shortfall, and he wanted our service to look at 
this. 
At first, our investigator didnt think we could look at this, because of the amount of time that 
had passed. But an ombudsman decided that the rules of our service mean we could.
BM said that it had sold both the properties that Mr A was complaining about in December 
2008. It said that it got initial valuations on both properties. Those were still a bit less than 
the mortgage balances at the time. BM marketed both properties for a few months, but it had 
no real interest. It then sold them at auction. BM didnt think it had done anything wrong.
BM said that it had contacted Mr A since about the debts, and hed acknowledged the debt 
by making an offer in April and June 2013. The limitation period is 12 years for the capital on 
a secured debt, so BM said this debt wasnt time barred. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that BM had obtained 
valuations from a firm which was a member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors. It 
had marketed the properties for some months with no offers, then they had been sold at 
auction. Our investigator didnt think that BM had made mistakes or acted unreasonably. 
And he didnt think BM had left it too long to ask Mr A to pay the shortfall from his 
mortgages. So he didnt think BM had to do any more.
Mr A didnt agree. He said wed been too quick to accept what BM said, and to dismiss the 
merits of his complaint. Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Our investigator set out the steps that BM had taken to try to get the best price for the two 
properties it had repossessed. Im also satisfied that BM did what I would expect it to do. 
I know that Mr A thinks that BM didnt try hard enough to get a good price for the properties it 
sold. He doesnt think there should be a shortfall. But I think that BM would also have been 
better off if it had been able to get more money for Mr As properties. And I think it did try. 
BM has shown us its notes from the time, which include the valuations done for the 
properties, and notes from the estate agents about attempts to market them. So I can see 
that the properties were marketed for some months, with no real interest. BM reduced them 
on the advice of the estate agents, to match the asking price of other properties in the same 
block, but that didnt make any difference. The properties were then sold at auction. 
As Mr A will know, these two properties are on mixed development of flats and houses. I 
think its worth noting that, while Mr As flats were being marketed, the agents reported that a 
much larger house with garage on the same development had recently sold at auction for 
rather less than the two valuations on Mr As properties. 
I dont think that BM let Mr A down, or that its BMs fault that the properties didnt sell for 
enough money to clear the mortgages on them.
Mr A also said that BM hadnt asked him to pay this debt for some years, so he thought it 
was time barred. But this was a secured debt, and the time limits on those are different to 
unsecured debts, like overdrafts or credit cards. 
Its not for me to decide on whether this debt is legally enforceable. Only a court can do that. 
I have to see whether BM has acted fairly or not. And I know that Mr A says its a long time 
since BM last chased him for this debt, but I dont think that BM has been unfair in asking 
Mr A to pay the shortfall on these two mortgages. 
I know Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman