DRN-1424291
The complaint
Mrs J complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited wont refund to her the full 
amount that shes claimed from it for some curtains and blinds. 
What happened
Mrs J used her John Lewis Financial Services credit card in October 2018 to pay £4,173.35 
for some curtains and blinds. They were delivered and fitted in March 2019 but Mrs J wasnt 
satisfied with the quality of them. She returned one of the blinds to the supplier and received 
a refund of £326 which was credited to her card and she paid £30 for an independent expert 
to inspect the curtains and blinds.  
She then claimed a refund of £3,454.35 from the supplier and from John Lewis Financial 
Services under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The supplier refunded 
£3,510.35 to her and John Lewis Financial Services credited £100 compensation to her 
account in June 2019 and then gave her 2,500 points which I understand have a value of 
£25. Mrs J wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that John 
Lewis Financial Services had taken everything into account in dealing with Mrs Js complaint 
and had done what she would have expected it to do. 
Mrs J has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She has responded 
in detail to the investigators recommendation and says, in summary, that:
she hasnt received all of the refund that should have been paid to her;
the supplier said that it would refund the fitting costs;
she hasnt been reimbursed for the cost of the independent report; and
she should receive more compensation for the customer service that shes received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mrs Js complaint about John Lewis 
Financial Services, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the curtains and blinds and that John Lewis Financial 
Services response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome of Mrs Js claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to 
do that.
Mrs J paid £4,173.35 for three sets of curtains for her lounge, a blind for the lounge, a blind 
for her snug, three poles, six finials and fitting. When they were delivered she didnt consider 
them to be of satisfactory quality so she took the blind for the snug back to one of the 
suppliers stores and it credited the cost of £326 to her credit card. She then claimed the 
outstanding amount from the supplier, less the £393 that she paid for the poles and finials 
which she wanted to keep  so her claim was for £3,454.35 (£4,173.35 less £326 and £393).
The supplier agreed to refund some of the outstanding amount to her and to collect the three 
sets of curtains and the remaining blind. It refunded £3,184.35 to her credit card which left 
£663 outstanding from the original order which John Lewis Financial Services says consists 
of the pole systems that Mrs J still has and £270 fitting costs. It also credited her account 
with £100 compensation and gave her 2,500 points.
The difference between the amount that Mrs J paid for the curtains and blinds and the 
amount that the supplier has refunded to Mrs J is £663. Shes kept the poles and finials 
which cost £393 so the net difference is £270. The total charge for fitting the curtains and 
blinds was £412.50 and of that the supplier refunded fitting costs totalling £142.50 (£27.50 
for each set of curtains and £30 for each blind). Deducting £142.50 from £412.50 leaves 
£270 which, together with the £393 for the poles and finials, is the net amount that Mrs J has 
paid. 
The supplier did say in an e-mail to Mrs J in June 2019: The fitting fee would not normally 
be refunded as this job has been completed, we have decided to refund your curtains and 
blinds as a goodwill gesture.  As a token of goodwill on this occasion I will arrange for the 
fitting to be refunded . Mrs J clearly understood that to mean that she would receive a 
refund of all of the fitting costs but the supplier confirmed in an e-mail eleven days later that 
it would be refunding the fitting costs for the curtains and blinds totalling £142.50.
Im not persuaded that it was the suppliers intention that it would refund all of the fitting 
costs to Mrs J and I consider that the refund of £142.50 of the fitting costs that its made to 
Mrs J is fair and reasonable. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
John Lewis Financial Services to refund to her any of the net outstanding amount of £663  
which is the cost of the poles and finials and £270 of the fitting costs. 
There have been some issues with John Lewis Financial Services response to Mrs Js 
complaint. It has credited £100 to her account and given her 2,500 points. Although I 
sympathise with Mrs J for the issues that shes described and the upset that she clearly 
feels, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require it to pay her any more compensation, to pay her an additional amount to reimburse 
her for the cost of the independent report or to take any other action in response to her 
complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman