DRN-3295863
The complaint
Mrs P, as director of M, complains about the information provided to her by Xbridge Limited 
trading as Simply Business in February 2020 in relation to Ms commercial insurance policy. 
Mrs P considers the information provided meant M was left without cover for the business 
interruption M then suffered as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
M operates as a licenced restaurant. It held an industry specific commercial insurance policy 
taken out in April 2019. M took the policy out via Simply Business, who acted as Ms 
insurance broker. 
On 20 February 2020, Mrs P contacted M to make an administrative change to the policy. 
During the phone call to make this change, Mrs P also queried whether the policy would 
provide cover for business interruption as a result of COVID-19. Initially, Simply Business 
agent said the policy provided cover for business interruption caused by specific named 
diseases, but that as COVID-19 was a new disease  and so did not appear in this list  
claims would be considered on a case-by-case basis. 
However, later in the call, the agent indicated a claim would likely be covered. She said that, 
as the policy covered a number of diseases and COVID-19 was a serious thing, she doubted 
a claim would be declined. 
Mrs P spoke to Simply Business a couple more times over the following weeks. On 
16 March 2020, during one of these phone calls, Simply Business told Mrs P that the insurer 
of the policy had confirmed that there would be no cover for COVID-19. Mrs P apparently 
tried to identify an alternative policy that would provide cover, but has said that none were 
available by that point. 
Mrs P, on behalf of M, complained that Simply Business had given her incorrect information 
and that this had meant shed lost the opportunity to take out a policy that wouldve provided 
cover for the closure of M as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Simply Business agreed 
that the first call couldve been clearer and apologised for any confusion caused, but said 
that it did not consider any error had been made and that the later calls provided further 
clarification. 
Mrs P was unhappy with this response and brought Ms complaint to our Service. However, 
our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. He agreed that the information 
given on 20 February 2020 was not helpful and may have led Mrs P to believe Ms claim 
would likely be met by the policy. But he didnt think the impact of this meant Ms complaint 
should be upheld.
Our Investigator considered that, if Mrs P had been given clearer information on 
20 February, she would likely have taken similar steps as she did in March when clarification 
had been provided. These steps included contacting the British Insurance Brokers 
Association (BIBA) to ask whether there was an alternative policy that would provide cover. 
However, the Investigator thought it unlikely BIBA wouldve been able to give M any 
guidance that wouldve likely led to an alternative policy being taken out that wouldve 
provide the cover M needed. 
He noted that COVID-19 had not been classified as a notifiable disease at the time of the 
20 February call. And that it wasnt known what measures the Government would take to 
limit the spread of COVID-19. So, he didnt think BIBA wouldve been able to provide M with 
the clarification or guidance Mrs P was seeking at this time. As such, he didnt think M 
wouldve been able to identify an alternative policy which it knew would respond to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, even if Simply Business had been clearer in February 2020. 
Mrs P remained unsatisfied. She said that there are many policies which have responded to 
claims relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. But that many of these were not available in 
March 2020, even though they had been in February 2020. 
Ms complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on M, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I agree that Simply Business could, and should, have been clearer with the information 
provided in the 20 February 2020 call. I understand that the call handler was trying to 
provide reassurance to a concerned customer. But in doing so, she provided information that 
was, in my view, misleading. The call handler would not have known whether any future 
claim resulting from COVID-19 was likely to be met or not, and so she shouldnt have 
provided the reassurance she ultimately did that it was most likely that [the claim] would be 
covered. 
However, like the Investigator, I think it is necessary to think about what the impact of this 
was. I consider that one of the crucial factors in making my decision is to avoid applying the 
benefit of hindsight to the actions that were and could have been taken in February and 
March 2020. With the benefit of hindsight, it is easy to identify a policy that M could have 
taken out that would have provided cover. However, the situation at this time was uncertain 
and rapidly changing.
Significantly, whilst many of the policies that have ultimately provided cover for claims are 
those that provide cover for notifiable diseases, COVID-19 had not been classified as such 
a disease at the time of the 20 February 2020 call. The Government maintains a list of 
diseases that it classifies as notifiable diseases. Some policies provide cover in relation to 
such diseases. But, in England where M is based, COVID-19 was not added to this list until 
5 March 2020. 
So, at the time of Mrs Ps call on 20 February 2020, COVID-19 was not a notifiable disease. 
And a policy that provided cover for notifiable diseases would not, at that time, have 
provided cover for COVID-19. This means that neither Simply Business nor BIBA would 
have been able to direct M to a policy providing such cover on the basis that it would meet a 
claim relating to COVID-19. 
The situation is similar in relation to the other main type of cover that has ultimately 
responded to claims relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. These policies respond, in certain circumstances, where businesses are required to close as a result of instructions from the 
Government or similar authorities. 
However, in February (and even during the first half of March) 2020, it wasnt clear what 
actions the Government would take. The actions ultimately taken were not those that have 
been implemented prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. So, on 20 February 2020, it would not 
have been possible to predict what actions would be taken, or who would take those actions, 
and hence which policies would respond. 
Ultimately, this means that I do not consider that in February 2020 Simply Business, another 
broker, nor BIBA would have been able to direct Mrs P to any policy that would be 
identifiable as providing cover for the claim M eventually had to make. 
It is possible that Mrs P wouldve taken out another policy and that this, by chance, would 
have provided the cover M ended up needing. But I dont think this is more likely than not. 
Mrs P has referred to there being a 78% chance, but I dont think this is an accurate 
reflection of the number of policies sold versus those that offered cover. Whilst many 
commercial policies did end up providing cover, the majority did not. 
Additionally, without the confirmation that the policy would provide cover  which I dont think 
anyone wouldve been able to provide  I am not persuaded M wouldve taken out a different 
policy at this point.
In summary, whilst I agree that Simply Business should have been clearer than it was, I 
dont consider the impact of this was that M lost out on the ability to successfully claim on a 
policy for its losses.
I have no doubt that this situation has also been distressing for Mrs P, but the complainant in 
this case is her limited company  M. As a legal entity in its own right, it is the impact on M 
that I need to consider, and M is unable to suffer distress. So, whilst I agree Simply Business 
did not do what it should have done, I dont consider this had a material impact on M that 
needs to be addressed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman