DRN-2170384
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unreasonably decided to cancel her 
policy as if it never existed following her claim for the damage caused to her car after a theft. 
What happened
Mrs M insured this car with Ageas and its agents from April 2014. It is a classic or older 
vintage type car. On 28 September 2018 it was stolen and later recovered.
Mrs M made a claim to Ageas. Ageas said her car had been modified from a hard-top saloon 
to a soft-top cabriolet. And had it known about these modifications, it would have never 
offered to insure her car. It refunded all the premiums Mrs M had paid and cancelled her 
policy as it had never existed, as in voided it.
Mrs M complained but Ageas wouldnt change its stance. So Mrs M brought her complaint to 
us. Ultimately the investigator upheld it. He was of the view Mrs M didnt know her car had 
been modified and therefore there was no qualifying misrepresentation to permit Ageas to 
void her policy and refuse to deal with her claim.
Ageas didnt agree so Mrs Ms complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Mrs M always maintained that she was unaware her car was modified. She simply liked 
these types of cars, so bought one. She wasnt an enthusiast however and didnt really know 
that much about cars. She said when she first took out the policy she talked on the phone to 
the broker. And she remembers explaining that she was worried the soft top might get 
slashed. Her V5 described her car as a saloon which was also what she said she told the 
broker at the time. 
Ageas said its broker no longer has the call recording of that call or any notes of the call or 
any other paperwork.
 
When Ageas engineer inspected the recovered car, he said it was clear it had been 
modified to from a hard top to a soft top and indeed that it wasnt very well done. Ageas has 
also showed us its underwriting criteria which clearly shows had it been aware of the 
modifications it wouldnt have offered to insure Mrs Ms car.
As the investigator explained the law concerning Ageas ability to void Mrs M policy of 
insurance is governed by the Consumers Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). Under this Act the insurer must ask clear questions about the risk to be 
insurers. The consumer then has the duty to answer those questions truthfully and honestly.
Ageas or its broker has no record of Mrs Ms original application. It does however have the 
statements of fact for the renewal each of her policy. Its clear it has recorded that Mrs M 
said no the issue of whether her car had been modified. When Ageas talked to Mrs Ms 
husband, he confirmed they would have described it as a soft top and that no modifications 
to the car had been undertaken by them.
But in order for Ageas to have voided of Mrs Ms policy, it needs to establish that Mrs M 
didnt answer this question detailed on the renewal of her policy truthfully and honestly. As in 
that she deliberately didnt answer it properly or that she was careless as to what answer 
she gave. Its only on that basis that it can established under CIDRA that there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation which then and only then gives Ageas the remedy to void her 
policy and refuse to deal with her claim. 
Mrs M has produced her V5 which clearly showed her car was registered as saloon. It also 
shows that there were 12 previous owners of this car. She has also produced a letter from 
the garage who sold her the car, which confirmed they sold her a soft top car. Im satisfied 
from the call recordings with Mrs Ms husband, plus the repeated and very consistent 
account of the situation from Mrs M, that on the balance of probability and in the absence of 
any other evidence to the contrary, Mrs M told the broker on the phone that her car was a 
saloon and also a soft top.
 
From Ageas engineers evidence there were only two models of this car at the time it was 
manufactured - a saloon with a hard top and cabriolet with a soft top. Therefore from what 
Mrs M said she told the broker at the time she first took out this policy, she said she had a 
soft top saloon which wouldnt have been possible unless it had been modified. But theres 
no evidence before me that Mrs M was at all aware it had been modified. Mrs M made the 
point that if it had been so modified the V5 should also have been amended and clearly it 
wasnt.
Therefore Ageas hasnt shown me satisfactorily that Mrs M was careless in answering the 
question about her car being modified or indeed deliberately said it wasnt modified. If 
anything its seems more probable she described it as a soft top saloon not knowing that that 
description couldnt have been correct, which should have been picked up by the broker at 
the time.
Therefore Im not satisfied Ageas has proved there is a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA which means the remedy available to Ageas under CIDRA of voiding her policy 
(since theres no dispute it wouldnt have insured Mrs Ms car) was not available to Ageas. If 
anything the misrepresentation appears to have been made by the broker and not Mrs M. 
Therefore Ageas can deal with the matter with its broker instead rather than blaming Mrs M 
for that mistake.
Putting things right
Consequently, I consider in these circumstances, its only fair and reasonable that Ageas 
should now reinstate Mrs Ms policy, and deal with her claim under the remaining terms and 
condition of her policy. 
From the engineers evidence he was of the view it was a total loss which means Mrs A has 
been without the total loss value of her car since the theft so interest should be added to that sum. As Ageas refunded the premium to Mrs A, Mrs A needs to repay the premium back to 
Ageas. I understand Mrs A is happy to do this. 
This also means Ageas should now remove the voidance from all internal and external 
databases.
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the following:
Formally reinstate Mrs Ms policy and ask Mrs M to repay the refunded premium.
On receipt of that deal with her claim for the total loss of her car based on the 
evidence of Ageas engineer. Interest of 8% simple should be added from the date of 
the car was recovered to the date Ageas pays it.  If income tax is to be deducted 
from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mrs M for HMRC 
purposes. 
Remove the voidance from all internal and external databases.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman