DRN-3822310
The complaint
Mr H has complained about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) using redress from a 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to repay a debt, on the basis that the 
debt was written off in a sequestration.
What happened
Mr H, in his capacity as a sole trader, had a PPI policy on his RBS business overdraft. Mr H 
went through a sequestration, so his overdraft debt was written off, and a portion of the 
arrears remained unpaid. In total, around £200,000 of debt was left unpaid to RBS.
Mr H later complained about the sale of the PPI. RBS agreed it had been mis-sold and 
offered to redress this. This came to about £6,000. They explained that if Mr H had been 
subject to insolvency, they would pay the redress to the relevant account first  the redress 
was first subject to the clearance of any arrears.
Mr H accepted this offer, and RBS set off the PPI compensation  using it to clear some of 
the £200,000 or so of arrears that went unpaid in the sequestration.
Mr H complained. His representative argued that the redress was due to Mr H directly, as 
hed been discharged from the sequestration years ago, therefore there were no arrears to 
set off against.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and thought RBS had acted fairly in setting 
off the redress. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that our service was set up by Parliament to resolve cases informally, 
based on what is fair and reasonable. Of course, we take into account the relevant law, 
regulations, and good industry practice to help us come to our conclusions. But the 
overarching principle is fairness. Indeed, I am able to depart from the law where I find that 
fairness demands I do so.
So I have taken into account the legal arguments from Mr Hs representative, and I am 
grateful that he set them out clearly. But the crux of my decision is based on whats fair  
which takes into account the law, but is not exclusively based on it.
In terms of the legal position, I acknowledge the representatives argument that on the 
discharge of the sequestration, Mr H was discharged of all his debts and obligations.
With that said, I also note that when someones estate is sequestrated, their assets are 
vested  i.e. transferred to  a trustee for the benefit of their creditors. For Mr H, this would 
have included his right to redress for the mis-sold PPI, which formed an asset that was 
transferred to his trustee. It was property in the sequestration. That it was only discovered 
afterwards doesnt change that.
It is possible for Mr Hs discharged trustee to apply to the court to be re-appointed, so that he 
can either distribute the compensation among Mr Hs creditors or  more likely  adjudicate 
a reformulated claim by RBS which includes a balancing of accounts in bankruptcy. The 
principle of balancing of accounts in bankruptcy would allow RBS to set off any debts against 
the bankrupts claim.
I dont know what a court might do in Mr Hs case  its possible it may decide to effectively 
undo his discharge, or its possible it may decide not to do so. But the point is that I dont 
agree the compensation is necessarily payable to Mr H directly. Its possible it could be paid 
to the trustee to distribute amongst the creditors, or kept by RBS to reduce the amount that 
was left unpaid.
But even if I accept the legal arguments of Mr Hs representative, as I said before I must 
apply an overarching test of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
And I think its fair for RBS to use Mr Hs PPI redress to reduce the money left unpaid when 
he was discharged from the sequestration.
When two parties owe each other money, it seems only fair that they each pay what they 
owe. While RBS owed Mr H about £6,000 for mis-selling PPI, Mr H left unpaid arrears of 
about £200,000 that hed owed to RBS from the same period in the same capacity. So it 
seems both fair and practical to use one debt to reduce the other.
Ill put it another way. Lets imagine a situation where Mr H owed someone money, and they 
also owed him a much larger amount of money. I dont think Mr H would feel it was fair if the 
other person never repaid their debt to Mr H, but Mr H was still forced to repay his debt to 
them  even if that other person had since been insolvent. 
And while of course I accept that Mr H was discharged from his sequestration, it did not 
mean that the underlying debt got repaid to RBS. And the amount left outstanding after the 
sequestration was very significant, and far larger than the PPI redress.
I have also taken into account that Mr Hs sequestration ended some years ago, and that 
there are arguments to be made about the time thats passed. But then his PPI redress 
comes from premiums which were charged even longer ago than that. So if I were to find 
that RBS were dealing with money owed from too long ago, Id surely have to fairly say that 
Mr H was also pursuing money owed from too long ago.
Another key point is that when a PPI policy has been mis-sold, we tell businesses to put their 
customers in the financial position theyd be in now had the policy never been sold  as far 
as its possible to do that. Here, had Mr Hs overdraft PPI not been sold, then he would not 
have an extra £6,000 or so now. Instead, his debt wouldve most likely been about £6,000 
smaller going into the sequestration as the PPI premiums would never have been added to 
his overdraft balance. So it makes the most sense to use the PPI redress to reduce Mr Hs 
unpaid debt in line with what it wouldve most likely looked like without PPI. Doing so more 
effectively puts Mr H in the financial position he wouldve been in but for the PPI.Further, the PPI premiums would have been charged to Mr Hs overdraft, meaning a portion 
of them would have most likely been written off in the sequestration. Because of the time 
thats passed, statements are no longer available to show how many premiums were or were 
not left unpaid. But it means there were most likely premiums that Mr H never actually paid 
for with his own money  instead, they were added onto the balance and later written off. 
And it certainly wouldnt seem fair for RBS to have to give Mr H a refund of any premiums 
which by all accounts he never paid in the first place.
Lastly, thinking about what should have happened, ideally Mr Hs trustee should have 
pursued the PPI claim before discharging him. While the trustee may not have known about 
the potential claim at the time, it was nonetheless erroneous to overlook an asset  it was 
supposed to have been either passed to RBS to set off against or otherwise distributed 
amongst all of Mr Hs creditors. It was not supposed to have been paid to Mr H directly. So 
again, had things happened as they should have in that sense, Mr H still would not have 
received the PPI redress directly.
So while I know that this will come as a disappointment for Mr H, and while it is not my 
intention to disappoint him, I dont think I can fairly tell RBS to pay the PPI redress to him 
directly when there was a much larger debt left outstanding from the same period in the 
same capacity.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc settled Mr Hs PPI 
claim in a fair way. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman