DRN-3423621
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr T have complained that their travel insurance policy was mis-sold to them by 
LTC Compliance Limited (LTC).
All reference to LTC includes any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr T bought a travel insurance policy through LTC. They have complained that 
the policy was mis-sold to them as the term ticket refund was misleading and doesnt 
feature in the policy documents. 
They complained to LTC and received a refund of premiums. But LTC didnt think the policy 
was mis-sold as it drew Mrs H and Mr Ts attention to the terms and conditions.
Unhappy, Mrs H and Mr T referred their complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it as LTC had provided sufficient 
information during the sales process.
Mrs H and Mr T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They said LTC falsely 
advertised the insurance and have also mentioned the new consumer duty which will be 
introduced next year.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry regulations say that when an insurance policy is sold on a 
non-advised basis, the seller has to ensure it provides enough information for the buyer to 
be able to make an informed decision. 
So Ive looked at the information provided to Mrs H and Mr T at the point of sale. They 
bought the policy online and opted for insurance which advertised ticket refund cover. Mrs 
H and Mr T say there is no reference to ticket refund in the policy documents and so their 
policy was mis-sold and the literature was misleading. 
Ive reviewed the screenshots of the webpages Mrs H and Mr T would have seen at the point 
of sale and the policy documents and insurance product information document which were 
provided. I agree that there is no reference in the policy to ticket refund but the policy does 
provide cover for irrecoverable travel expenses, in specific circumstances, for example in the 
cancellation and curtailment section. Travel expenses would include ticket costs. 
I am satisfied that the online sales journey made it clear that the documents and terms and 
conditions needed to be read. And Im satisfied that Mrs H and Mr T were provided with all 
the necessary information to be able to check the cover they had bought. 
LTC has provided a refund of the premium in any event  which I think is reasonable on the 
basis that Mrs H and Mr T said the policy wasnt suitable. 
As I think Mrs H and Mr T had enough information to make an informed decision, I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold and so I cant fairly ask LTC to do anything more.  
Mrs H and Mr T have referred to the new consumer duty but that isnt something I can 
consider or apply to this complaint as it hasnt yet come into effect. Ive based my decision 
on the current rules and industry guidelines relating to non-advised sales, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman