DRN-2330243
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that a payment arrangement she made with Barclays Bank UK PLC 
meant that adverse information was reported to her credit file.
What happened
Miss M had a current account and two unsecured loans with Barclays. In October 2019, Miss 
M began experiencing financial difficulties. She contacted Barclays to advise them of this, 
and Barclays agreed an informal arrangement to give Miss M an opportunity to recover her 
financial situation. Miss M kept to the informal payment arrangement and made the 
payments to Barclays that had been agreed.
In March 2020, Barclays arranged a consolidation loan to restructure the amounts that Miss 
M owed on the two personal loans. However, Miss Ms current account continued to operate 
on an overdrawn basis, and Barclays stopped all of Miss Ms direct debits on the current 
account and transferred the overdraft debt to a debt collection agency. Barclays also 
recorded a default against Miss Ms credit file because of this.
Miss M contacted Barclays about this and was told that her account should not have been 
transferred, or a default recorded on her credit file, and that Barclays had made a mistake 
which they would take steps to put right.
Miss M wasnt satisfied that Barclays acted quickly enough to return her current account to 
the status that it should have been in. She is also unhappy that she had to spend 
considerable time and effort in both liaising with Barclays and also making alternative 
arrangements for her regular monthly payments.
Miss M was also disappointed that several missed payments were recorded on her credit file 
in relation to the informal arrangement that she initially made with Barclays, and she doesnt 
feel that this is fair because it wasnt explained to her that her credit file would be affected by 
accepting the informal payment arrangement. 
Barclays looked at Miss Ms complaint. They agreed that Miss Ms overdraft debt should not 
have been transferred and that the level of service that they provided Miss M with regard 
putting things right hadnt been to the standard that they would have liked. So, they upheld 
Miss Ms complaint and offered her £500 compensation because of this.
But while Barclays had agreed to remove the default it had applied to Miss Ms credit file 
about the current account, it felt that the missing payments recorded on Miss Ms credit file in 
that related to the initial informal payment arrangement were appropriate, and so they 
wouldnt remove them. Barclays noted that they had informed Miss M that accepting the 
payment arrangement would have an effect on her credit file at the time that she was making 
the arrangement with them. So, they didnt uphold this aspect of Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M wasnt happy that Barclays wouldnt remove the missed payment markers from her 
credit file, and she felt that the level of compensation that Barclays had offered her in relation 
to the other aspects of her complaint didnt go far enough. So, she referred her complaint to 
this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy review, they felt that the 
amount of compensation offered by Barclays was reasonable, given the circumstances here. 
Our investigator also listened to a recording of a telephone call provided by Barclays which 
he felt confirmed that Barclays had told Miss M that her credit file would be affected by 
accepting the informal payment arrangement. So, he didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint or ask 
Barclays to take any further action beyond that which they had already agreed.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss M feels strongly about her complaint, and I note Miss Ms comments that 
she has dyslexia and struggles to understand things, including jargon. However, having 
completed my review, I find that I have reached the same outcome as our investigator, and 
for essentially the same reasons.
When a business makes an error that affects a customer, it would be expected that the 
business takes the necessary steps needed to return their customer to the position that they 
would be in had the error not occurred. It would also be expected that the business 
considers the distress and inconvenience that the customer has experienced and provide 
adequate compensation for this.
I think that Barclays have done that here. They dont dispute that they made an error, and 
they have taken steps to put Miss Ms current account back into the position that it should 
be, including recalling the account from the debt collection agency and removing the default 
that they had applied relating to this account from Miss Ms credit file.
Barclays have also made an offer of compensation to Miss M of £500. Offers of 
compensation are always a subjective issue, and I understand that Miss M doesnt feel that 
this amount adequately reflects the inconvenience and distress that she has suffered 
because of this. But I must note that the £500 offered by Barclays is commensurate with 
what this service would expect, given the circumstances here. 
Its also important to note that it isnt the role of this service to punish or fine businesses for 
their mistakes or standard of service. Rather, it is the role of this service to ensure that a fair 
and reasonable outcome is reached, when considering the circumstances of the dispute. In 
these circumstances, I think that the offer made by Barclays is fair and reasonable, so I 
wont be asking them to make any additional offers of compensation at this time.
Finally, I have also listened to the telephone conversation between Miss M and Barclays 
referenced by our investigator, and I can confirm that Miss M did specifically ask whether 
making the informal payments would affect her credit file from a perspective of missing 
payments. I can also confirm that Barclays advisor answered this question by stating that it 
would affect Miss Ms credit file, because technically the contracts that Miss M had with 
Barclays werent being adhered to, and that Miss M acknowledged this information given to 
her about this by Barclays advisor.I also must note that the language used by Barclays advisor during this conversation 
couldnt be considered as being over technical or including jargon and, having listened to the 
call, I find it difficult to arrive at any conclusion other than Miss M did understand what she 
was being told at that time.
I have taken onboard comments made by Miss M that this information about the effect on 
her credit file supplied over the phone by the advisor was insufficient and didnt go far 
enough to confirm the consequences that having missed payments might have with regard 
her credit file. But ultimately, Im not convinced by this argument, and I feel that the Barclays 
advisor did make it clear that there would be an effect on Miss Ms credit file  especially as 
he was providing this information in response to Miss M asking herself about whether the 
reporting of missed payments might be a consequence here.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, above and beyond the admission of error and offers of restorative action 
and compensation that they have already made. I know that this wont be the outcome that 
Miss M was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays 
to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman