DRN-2766391
The complaint
 Mr K complains about how Acasta European Insurance Company Limited dealt with and 
settled a claim he made for damage to his furniture.
 
What happened
 In December 2019 Mr K purchased a sofa from a large furniture retailer. He also purchased 
a five year care and protection plan. This policy of insurance was provided by Acasta and 
covered the upholstery Mr K had bought for stains and accidental damage.
In late March 2020, Mr K contacted Acasta to make a claim under his policy for accidental 
damage to his sofa. He said his wife had left a cosmetic mirror in their extension. He said 
she returned several minutes later and saw the sofa smouldering. He stated this had been 
caused by sunlight being reflected off the mirror onto the sofa, which had caused it to sustain 
damage  namely a burn.
Acasta considered Mr Ks claim for the damage hed reported. But it declined to cover his 
claim because it said the damage had been caused by the act of sunlight, which was 
excluded by his policy. 
Mr K complained to Acasta about how it had assessed his claim. He disagreed with how it 
had interpreted the act of sunlight policy exclusion clause  he argued that this clause 
referred, instead, to incidents where sunlight had caused fabric to fade or crack. But Acasta 
didnt uphold his complaint as it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Being dissatisfied with Acastas response to his complaint, Mr K referred it to our service. 
And he asked us to assess whether Acasta had fairly dealt with his claim.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided by Mr K and Acasta and initially felt this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. They thought sunlight reflecting off a cosmetic mirror was 
excluded under the terms of Mr Ks policy as Acasta had explained. However, they later 
reconsidered the policy terms and recommended upholding this complaint. They noted that 
the policy didnt define the term the act of sunlight. And they thought Acasta had made an 
error in how it had applied the sunlight policy exclusion. So, they directed it to settle Mr Ks 
claim. But Acasta disagreed with our investigators view of this complaint and asked for it to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr K has gone to some trouble to provide our service with detailed submissions 
about why he disagrees with how Acasta settled his claim. I want to assure him that Ive read 
everything hes sent us. Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by 
Mr K or Acasta its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The crux of this complaint is whether Acasta made a mistake, or treated Mr K unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. 
Its not in dispute that damage was caused to Mr Ks sofa or that he holds a care and 
protection plan that covers this item of furniture against stains and accidental damage. 
However, theres a disagreement between Mr K and Acasta about whether its acted 
reasonably in relying on a policy exclusion clause to decline to cover the damage reported 
here. 
Acasta declined to cover the damage to Mr Ks furniture as it says it sustained damage as a 
result of an act of sunlight. It doesnt appear from the evidence Ive seen that Acasta is 
disputing how Mr K asserts the damage took place.
In assessing this complaint Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions that apply to 
Mr Ks policy. They state that his furniture is covered against the cost of repairing accidental 
damageresulting in rips, tears, burns, heat marks, scuffs, scratches, gouges, dents, chips 
and punctures. 
The policy goes on to exclude, amongst other things, the costs arising from damage caused 
by fire, fire damage, smoke, ash, flood, leaks from roofs and conservatories, wind, 
lightening, the act of sunlight, oxidization or any natural disaster.
Mr K has argued that the policy exclusion where damage is caused as a result of an act of 
sunlight doesnt apply to the circumstances of his claim. As I set out in the background to 
this complaint, he believes his exclusion clause applies, instead, to where an item of 
furniture has cracked or been discoloured because of sunlight. 
The term act of sunlight isnt defined in Mr Ks policy. And, in circumstances where a policy 
is ambiguous or vague, our service will apply a fair and reasonable approach to its 
interpretation. Having done so, I think the exclusion Acasta has relied on here to decline this 
claim has in mind the gradual fading of colour due to exposure to sunlight over a period of 
time. This isnt what happened here  the circumstances of the claim Mr K reported are 
vastly different. 
The damage, in Mr Ks case, was caused suddenly and unexpectedly by sunlight reflecting 
from a mirror onto the sofa. Im satisfied it was caused accidentally. In the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that the damage Mr K reported stands 
outside of the exclusion clause Acasta is seeking to rely on. It follows that I think it was unfair 
for it to decline to cover this claim for the reasons it gave.
Putting things right
 For the reasons already outlined, I dont think Acasta should be permitted to rely on the act 
of sunlight exclusion clause in declining Mr Ks claim. And, as there are no other exclusion 
clauses that appear to apply here, Acasta should settle Mr Ks claim in line with his policy. 
Im therefore upholding this complaint. 
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to reconsider Mr Ks claim without reference to the policy exclusion clause, 
which its relied upon so far. After its reconsidered this claim, it should settle it in line with 
the terms of Mr Ks policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman