DRN-4117457
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy that HSBC hadnt refunded them after theyd been the victims
of a scam, in which they sent funds to two HSBC accounts.
Mr A has since sadly passed away and so the complaint is being brought by Mrs A and Mr 
As estate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A were the victims of an investment scam. They thought they were dealing with
a genuine company who were arranging various fixed rate bonds for them. They were in fact
dealing with scammers.
As part of this scam Mr and Mrs A made four payments to one account (Ill refer to as
account A) and a fifth payment to a different account (Ill refer to as account B) all held at
HSBC. After discovering they had been the victims of a scam, they raised a complaint with
HSBC.
Mr and Mrs As bank and HSBC are both signed up to the Lending Standards Boards
voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides
additional protection for the victims of APP scams such as this.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. It said it had completed a full investigation
into the allegations raised. It notified Mr and Mrs As bank that it wouldnt be offering a
refund, saying it couldnt recover any funds.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response, Mr and Mrs A brought the complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked into things but as she was upholding the linked complaint against the
sending bank in full, the complaint against HSBC wasnt taken any further.
Mr and Mrs As complaint and linked complaints were passed to me. As a result, I have re-
opened and considered the complaint against HSBC and the outcome here impacts the
other complaints.
I set out my findings in a provision decision which I have included in full below.
My provisional decision
I have been corresponding with HSBC and obtained further evidence about the recipient
accounts and HSBCs actions following the report of the scam. Having done so Im
recommending a partial refund of the fifth payment made to account B. Ill set out my
reasoning below.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like HSBC, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that HSBC are a signatory
of. The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the
following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. Where the receiving
Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they may be the proceeds of an APP
scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if HSBC met the standards required of it
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether HSBC opened the receiving account
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should
have given HSBC any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of
the above, I have to consider whether HSBCs acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr and
Mrs As losses.
While HSBC has provided our service with information about the receiving bank accounts 
it has done so in confidence. This is to allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and
HSBC has provided that which is necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to
data protection laws our service cant share any information about the beneficiaries, the
receiving bank accounts or any investigation and action HSBC subsequently took. However,
I have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my
provisional decision.
Account A
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctlyfollowed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
Im satisfied that HSBC carried out checks to verify the identity of the named account holder
and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary account. There wasnt anything at the
time that I think reasonably couldve alerted HSBC that the account it was opening would
later be used fraudulently. So, Im satisfied HSBC has taken reasonable steps to prevent the
accounts being opened for criminal purposes and it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr
and Mrs As losses when opening the account.
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history of the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to HSBC as suspicious or
significantly outside of what might be expected for accounts of that type. Im also satisfied
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payments Mr and Mrs A made
into the account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that HSBC
might have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers
payment instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also
dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Ps loss in this way
either.
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied HSBC took the necessary
actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the
beneficiary account as they had already been moved on / withdrawn from the account.
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud,
HSBC responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards.
And I dont think I can fairly say HSBC didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP fraud,
Im satisfied that HSBC met the standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont
think HSBC couldve done anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss
of Mr and Mrs As money regarding account A. And it responded appropriately once notified
of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are liable to reimburse Mr P for his loss
under the CRM Code or otherwise
Account B
The payment to account B originated from Mr As sole account.
Having considered similar evidence for account B, I dont think HSBC did meet its
obligations under the CRM code. This is based on the account activity. Mr and Mrs As
payment as well as other prior to it followed a known fraudulent pattern  large credits
received then quickly being dispersed. And that the activity was not consistent with the
accounts expected or previous use, based on what HSBC knew about its customer  from
both its account opening information, and account activity.
Im currently persuaded that the activity on the account was such that HSBC ought to have
intervened, prior to Mr As payment being made to this account.
From the notes, it appears HSBC tried to contact its customer (after it had
received notification of fraud)  and I cant see that they responded. So, I think its most likelythat HSBC would have received a similar response if it had tried to contact its customer at an
earlier point. And shortly after Mr As payments HSBC went on to receive reports of fraud
from the remitting banks.
Putting things right
Based on the above, Im currently recommending that HSBC refund Mr As estate partially
for the £22,500 payment made to account B. This payment is linked to other complaints
being brought by the estate of Mr A and so I am recommending a 33% refund of this
transaction £7,425, plus interest. This represents a shared responsibility between Mr As
estate, the sending bank and HSBC.
I think interest should be calculated using the monthly average rate for one-year
fixed- rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of April 2021
from the dates of the disputed payments until 09 April 2022 (the date the bond
would have matured and, had the money been genuinely invested, the likely date it
would have been available again to Mr and Mrs A). And on the same basis but using the rate
for the month of April 2021 from 09 November 2021 until the date of settlement.
I think this is the fairest way of, as far as possible, putting Mr As estate in the position it
would have been had the fraud not taken place  that being that he would have likely
purchased a legitimate one-year fixed rate bond elsewhere and continued to invest the
money without risking the capital.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. HSBC queried a typo in the provisional 
decision with regard to the interest calculation which should have read
I think interest should be calculated using the monthly average rate for one-year
fixed- rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of April 2021
from the dates of the disputed payments until 09 April 2022 (the date the bond
would have matured and, had the money been genuinely invested, the likely date it
would have been available again to Mr and Mrs A). And on the same basis but using the rate
for the month of April 2021 from 09 April 2021 until the date of settlement.
In a linked complaint Mr A asked for a higher rate of interest to be considered  in that case 
various rates needed to be considered as there were multiple payments and they thought 
they were purchasing various different products all attracting different rates of interest. In this 
case the interest calculation is simple and straightforward as it relates to one payment with 
which Mr and Mrs A thought they were specifically purchasing a one-year fixed rate bond. 
Therefore, the application of the rates published by the Bank of England for the Month of 
April 2021 is the correct one. And HSBC has calculated accordingly. 
I am not minded to change my decision from that set out above and in my provisional 
decision  apart from the amendment to the interest - due to my error.
Putting things right
I now direct HSBC to refund Mr As estate partially for the £22,500 payment made to account 
B. This payment is linked to other complaints being brought by the estate of Mr A and so I 
am recommending a 33% refund of this transaction £7,425, plus interest. This represents a 
shared responsibility between Mr As estate, the sending bank and HSBC.I think interest should be calculated using the monthly average rate for one-year
fixed- rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of April 2021
from the dates of the disputed payments until 09 April 2022 (the date the bond
would have matured and, had the money been genuinely invested, the likely date it
would have been available again to Mr and Mrs A). And on the same basis but using the rate
for the month of April 2021 from 09 April 2021 until the date of settlement.
My final decision
I partly uphold Mrs A and the estate of Mr As complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and the 
estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman