DRN-4233116
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) wrongly cancelled his loan application, 
causing him to miss out on favourable interest rates.
What happened
Mr S applied for a loan with Zopa in August 2022. Later that day, Zopa contacted him to ask 
for further information and conducted a hard search of his credit file. On 8 April 2022, Mr S 
was called by the Zopa underwriting team to clarify a point about his personal account. 
During that call, he was told that certain amendments to his application would be made in 
relation to this. He was also told that the underwriter was happy with everything in the 
application, but that the confirmation email couldnt be sent yet.
Due to an error at Zopa, the amendments discussed in the call on 8 April 2022 were not 
made in good time and, as a result, the system cancelled Mr Ss application. Zopa agreed 
that it got things wrong and has removed the hard credit search from Mr Ss file, as well as 
offering him £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
Mr S says that the damage done by this error is far larger than this, as it has denied him 
access to a loan at favourable interest rates. He says that borrowing is now far more 
expensive than that which had been agreed and confirmed by Zopa. He thinks that Zopa 
ought to compensate him for the additional money his losing out on the loan has cost him.
Our investigator thought that Zopa had wrongly led Mr S to believe that the loan would be 
granted, and had delayed acting upon information provided to it. They thought that Zopa 
should pay Mr S £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. Neither Mr S nor 
Zopa agreed with this. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman who issued the 
following provisional findings, so that both sides could respond ahead of a final decision:
I have listened carefully to the call between Mr S and the underwriter on 8 August 
2022. The underwriter said that they were happy with everything in the application, 
but immediately after this confirmed that the confirmation email could not yet be sent. 
In the circumstances, I am satisfied that the point had been made, in reasonably 
plain terms, that there remained some administrative steps to be taken before the 
loan would be confirmed and paid.
It was these administrative steps which caused the issue here. Zopa did not deal with 
their own administrative steps with reasonable promptness, causing the loan to be 
automatically withdrawn. This was an unreasonable delay. Zopa says that such 
cancellations cannot be undone, and it invited Mr S to reapply for a loan, which would 
be treated as a priority. In the circumstances, I think that this was a reasonable 
suggestion. Had Mr S done so, I would have expected a similar outcome to his 
previous application, which was a loan at a rate he found attractive. I do not think that 
Zopa is responsible for his decision not to do so, nor for the financial impact that this 
has had upon him.
Mr S says that the search in relation to this loan has prevented him from obtaining 
credit on favourable terms elsewhere. He says that the shift in interest rates generally 
has made this even more difficult, but has not provided any evidence in relation to his 
efforts. Zopa is not responsible for other lenders rates, and cannot be held liable for 
outcomes for which there is no evidence. And it has provided evidence that it 
requested removal of the hard search in October 2022. In these circumstances, there 
isnt any more I can expect Zopa to do.
Zopa got things wrong in how it processed Mr Ss loan. But I do not think that the 
evidence supports Mr Ss position in relation to the financial impact he says this has 
had. Nor do I think that the Zopa underwriter wrongly led him to believe that the loan 
would be paid to him without any further steps. Zopa invited Mr S to apply again for a 
loan, which would likely have addressed the financial impact in any event. But its 
mistake did cause Mr S a degree of distress and inconvenience. In all of the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that the £100 already offered by Zopa appropriately 
reflects this.
Zopa responded to say that it had nothing to add in response to the ombudsmans findings. 
Mr S didnt respond. So the case has now been passed forward for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as my colleague here and for the same 
reasons. Neither side has disagreed, or provided any further commentary or evidence to 
suggest why the outcome my colleague reached may be unfair or unreasonable. So in the 
circumstances here, I see no reason to depart from those findings, or the proposed outcome.
My final decision
Zopa Bank Limited should pay Mr S the £100 it offered him to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman