DRN-3342994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined their porting 
application. They ask that it refunds all or at least part of the early repayment charge (ERC) 
they paid. They also ask that it compensates them for the higher cost of the mortgage they 
took out elsewhere and for their inconvenience.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage with Nationwide. They took out a product which included an 
ERC if they repaid the mortgage during the product term. They could move house without 
paying the ERC if they ported the mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs W contacted Nationwide in early 2021. They wanted to port their mortgage 
product and take out additional borrowing. Nationwide declined, saying it couldnt include 
Mrs Ws income in its affordability assessment while she was on furlough. It assessed the 
mortgage as unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs W say this was unfair. They say they couldnt have known about furlough or the 
circumstances that led to Mrs W being on furlough when they took out the product. And they 
say Nationwide didnt take into account that Mrs W was on full pay and would return to work 
on her usual hours. They say they couldnt wait and apply again as they didnt want to miss 
the stamp duty holiday. 
Our investigator said Nationwide was entitled to have a lending policy and applied it fairly 
here. While it should have told Mr and Mrs W at the outset it couldnt lend, the £100 
compensation offered was fair. Our investigator said Nationwide was entitled to apply the 
ERC.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. Mr W said they didnt make an offer for a property until theyd 
received a decision in principle (DIP) and were confident Nationwide would lend. Mr W said 
their financial circumstances didnt change as a result of Mrs W being on furlough as she 
remained on full pay. He said Nationwide didnt assess their circumstances fairly. Mr W said 
a high street bank offered them the mortgage they wanted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W took out a fixed interest rate product in 2020. This applied until 2025. An ERC 
applied if they repaid the mortgage during the product term. The mortgage offer for the 
product switch set out the basis of the ERC (a percentage of the loan balance) and an 
illustration of the amount payable. Mr and Mrs W agreed to the terms of the product when 
they took out the product. Mr and Mrs W repaid the mortgage in May 2021 and Nationwide 
applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide should refund the ERC, and also compensate them for the 
higher interest rate they are paying their new lender. They say Nationwide didnt deal fairly 
with their porting application. 
Nationwide issued a DIP for the amount Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow. The DIP isnt itself 
an offer to lend, and I think this is set out clearly in the DIP. The DIP says This decision, 
which is not an offer of mortgageis subject to Nationwide Building Societys lending criteria 
(which may change), valuation, suitability of the property and pre-offer case review by an 
underwriter. 
Mr and Mrs W had an appointment with a mortgage adviser on 22 January 2021. They were 
told that Nationwide couldnt offer them the mortgage they wanted. This was because its 
policy at that point was not to include income from an applicant on furlough. Mrs W was on 
furlough. Without her income, Nationwide assessed the amount Mr and Mrs W wanted to 
borrow as unaffordable.
Nationwide issued the DIP on 19 January 2021. It told Mr and Mrs W it couldnt offer the loan 
they wanted on 22 January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs W had accepted an offer for their property before they contacted Nationwide on 
19 January 2021. They say they made an offer for a property after receiving the DIP. I can 
understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs W were when Nationwide said it couldnt lend. But 
I think its unlikely their purchase progressed significantly in the three days after the DIP was 
issued. Nationwide accepts it should have told Mr and Mrs W it couldnt lend to them on 19 
January 2021. They were caused inconvenience when they met with the mortgage adviser 
when there was no prospect of an application being successful. Given the short time before 
Nationwide put this right, I think the £100 compensation it offered is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide was unfair, and it should have taken their individual 
circumstances into account. Mr W says their circumstances didnt change as Mrs W was on 
full pay and expected to return to work on the same hours. I understand the point he makes. 
However, I must be fair to both parties here. Nationwide revised its lending policy during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. I dont think this was unreasonable, given the unusual circumstances 
and uncertainty caused by the pandemic and related Government measures. One of these 
changes was not to include income where the applicant was on furlough. 
Mr W says they couldnt have known about furlough when they took out the product. The 
mortgage offer says a porting application will be subject to Nationwides lending criteria at 
that time. As Ive said, Nationwide reviewed its lending criteria during the pandemic, and I 
dont think this was unreasonable. It had to respond to the unprecedented circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W wanted to move house and take out additional borrowing. Nationwide didnt 
offer the amount they wanted to borrow, and borrowing elsewhere would mean paying an 
ERC. Mr and Mrs W were confident Mrs W would return to work. But they didnt want to wait 
and make a later application as they wanted to take advantage of the stamp duty holiday 
which they expected would save them about £15,000. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W had to make a difficult decision, after weighing up the relative 
benefits and costs. Ultimately though, it was Mr and Mrs W decision to go ahead with their 
sale and purchase and take out a mortgage with another lender, knowing theyd have to pay 
the ERC and a higher interest rate. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W have said, and Im sorry that they will be disappointed. 
But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to refund the ERC or pay 
additional compensation to them.My final decision
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £100 to Mr and Mrs W, as it 
offered to do (unless of course it has already made the payment).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman