DRN-3490070
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc declined his mortgage application then recorded a 
marker against him on a fraud prevention database. 
What happened
Mr B applied for a mortgage with Santander in May 2020 via a broker which was declined. 
Santander then added a fraud marker against Mr B with CIFAS, a fraud prevention agency, 
as they were unable to verify Mr Bs income. 
When Mr B discovered that Santander applied the marker, he raised his concerns with them 
but they didnt think they had acted unfairly.
Mr B  referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by 
one of our investigators who thought that Santander had sufficient grounds to add the 
marker based on the information they had at the time of the application. So she didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and appointed solicitors to represent him. 
They provided further information and arguments and said that Mr B felt that Santander had 
acted in a discriminatory manner by adding a marker to the fraud prevention database. 
Mr Bs solicitors said they had noticed that there was an error with the information that Mr 
Bs accountants had provided at the time of the application. The complaint was looked at by 
another investigator who asked that Mr B provide a letter from HMRC listing his historic 
earnings. On receipt of this information, Santander agreed to remove the marker. 
Mr B still wasnt happy with this. He said, in summary, in order to resolve the complaint, he 
wanted Santander to reimburse his legal costs, application costs, costs of arranging 
documents and the cost of not being able to enter the real estate market. Mr B also said he 
wanted a letter of apology from Santander and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused him. He would also like Santander to review and approve a 
mortgage application once he was in a position to find a new property. 
Santander didnt agree to reimburse any costs as they noted that the initial error was caused 
by Mr Bs accountants which led to them being unable to verify his income. Our investigator 
didnt think that Santander had acted unfairly and didnt think they should reimburse any 
costs for Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and in summary, made the following comments:
He had provided evidence to Santander previously and they didnt agree to remove 
the markers until he appointed a solicitor  who provided similar evidence
He would still like Santander to pay for his legal costs and send him a letter of 
apology for defamation of his character
He thinks that Santander could have asked for more information or even rejected his 
application without adding an unfair CIFAS marker against his name causing him 
unnecessary difficulties
As Mr B disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders should only record information on fraud databases where they have reasonable 
grounds to do so. The principles CIFAS issues for its members say that evidence relied upon 
should be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the 
subject to the police  but reporting the matter doesnt actually have to take place. Ive 
looked at what Santander have done in Mr Bs case, to decide if they acted fairly.
Santander had to assess Mr Bs income in order to approve the application he made in May 
2020. They have told us they were unable to verify his income. Mr Bs income and 
employment changed during the preceding year as he had gone from being fully self-
employed to being both self-employed and employed. 
It has since come to light that Mr Bs accountants identified that they made an error in the 
information they gave to Santander at the time the application was made. They said there 
was a typing error and they provided a turnover of £39,230 and gross profit of £39,350. But it 
should have read a turnover of £39,230 and a gross profit of £35,350.
Lenders carry out income checks to ensure that information they are given is correct and 
accurate. And when Santander did this, they were not able to verify the income that Mr B 
said he earned. So because of the concerns they had, they applied the fraud maker on the 
fraud prevention database.
Mr B has since been able to provide evidence of his income and Santander have now been 
able to verify Mr Bs income, so they have removed this marker. I understand that Mr B said 
he provided evidence at the time, but it has only come to light more recently, that there was 
an error with what the accountant had submitted. So I dont think Santander should have 
removed this marker any earlier than they did. 
Taking everything into account, I think that Santander had reasonable grounds to add a 
marker to the fraud prevention database, as I believe they had reasonable grounds to 
suspect they had received false information when the mortgage application was made.
Because of this, I dont think its fair to ask Santander to cover Mr Bs legal costs or any 
other costs in relation to his application, or the work that his solicitors have done in order to 
argue Mr Bs case. Mr B was dealing with this complaint for a while and it was his choice to 
appoint a solicitor to act on his behalf  he didnt have to do this.
Mr B can re-apply for another mortgage with Santander if he wishes to do so, and Santander 
should consider that application fairly and reasonably and in line with their lending criteria. 
Its not reasonable for me to ask Santander to approve or guarantee to lend to Mr B in this 
situation as Santander have their own lending criteria to follow. 
Mr B made some comments about the broker that arranged his mortgage, but we are only 
able to make a finding on the actions of Santander here. If Mr B wishes to complain about 
the broker that arranged his mortgage, or in fact the accountant, he is free to do so. 
Mr B has said that he feels he has been discriminated against by Santander. He said he 
feels discriminated on race, ethnicity, religion, martial and social status. This service is 
unable to make findings on whether someone has been discriminated against as per the 
characteristics set out in the Equality Act 2010. Only a court of law can do that. However, we 
do take all relevant law and regulations into consideration when deciding whether or not a 
business has behaved in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Regarding Mr Bs complaint, given the inconsistent information Santander received about his 
income, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to apply the CIFAS marker in the first 
instance. And once Mr B was able to provide evidence to show the discrepancy was caused by a mistake made by his accountants, Santander removed the marker which was the fair 
thing to do. 
I understand that this has caused Mr B a considerable amount of stress and upset and he 
has told us this has affected not only him, but his family. While I acknowledge that Mr B 
would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused, I wont be 
asking Santander to pay any compensation because Im satisfied, they acted fairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Remove the fraud marker they have applied, from all fraud prevention databases in relation 
to Mr B, it they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman