DRN-4504387
The complaint
Ms S complains that shes having problems with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifaxs 
new cards as theyre no longer embossed.
What happened
Ms S has several accounts of her own with Halifax and she also helps two of her sons 
manage their accounts. That means Ms S has several Halifax cards in her wallet which she 
used to be able to distinguish from one another  despite being visually impaired  because 
the numbers on the cards were embossed. The embossing allowed Ms S to check the last 
four digits of the card meaning she could work out which card she had in her hand.
Ms S says Halifax changed the design of its cards in 2022 and started issuing cards without 
any embossing. Ms S says the change meant she could no longer work out which card she 
had in her hand because she started receiving cards that were no longer embossed. Theyre 
all the same colour too. So, she spoke to her local branch and then to Halifaxs accessibility 
department. She says neither of them were able to help her, so she complained to Halifax.
Halifax looked into Ms Ss complaint and said that as physically embossed numbers are no 
longer needed for a card to function it, along with the majority of the banking industry, had 
moved over to printed cards. Halifax said it had, however, spoken to its disability support 
team and that Ms S could purchase different coloured stickers or braille labelling from RNIB 
to help her distinguish between her cards. Halifax said that it didnt believe this would cause 
problems using ATM machines. Alternatively, Halifax said that Ms S could download an app 
to her mobile phone that could read out text and numbers for her. Ms S was unhappy with 
Halifaxs response and complained to our service.
Following our involvement, Halifax said that its now aware that a lot of visually impaired 
customers had relied on embossed numbers to help them identify cards and that it was, 
therefore, looking into alternative designs for its card including adding tactile dots. Thats 
despite the fact that embossed numbers werent originally designed as an accessibility 
feature. Halifax said it was speaking to RNIB about its plans. Our investigator didnt think 
Halifax had thoughts about the impact of its changes on Ms S. So, they recommended £200 
in compensation for the distress it had caused. In addition, they recommended that Halifax 
issue differently coloured cards to Ms S so that she could differentiate between them.
Halifax agreed to the compensation our investigator had recommended but said that it 
couldnt issue differently coloured cards. As this was the main adjustment Ms S had asked 
for, our investigator said theyd refer her complaint to an ombudsman for a decision. Ms Ss 
complaint was, as a result, passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month I issued a provisional decision. In that decision I said the following:
I accept that debit and credit cards used to be embossed so that an imprint of them 
could be taken when they were used to pay for goods and services. Advances in 
technology means thats no longer necessary. So, I can understand why businesses 
like Halifax looked into new designs for their cards. I also accept that many businesses 
took this as an opportunity to make their cards more accessible. For example, by 
increasing the font size on their cards and using colour schemes that allowed for 
greater contrasts.
Halifax says it spoke to RNIB when it was considering new designs. I havent 
necessarily seen evidence of that, but I can see that following the introduction of 
printed cards Halifax has said that it now understands that some customers use the 
embossing to help them identify their cards. So, Halifax appears to accept that it needs 
to do more for Ms S.
I can see that Halifax made a number of suggestions to Ms S  one such suggestion 
was to use stickers to help her differentiate between the various cards she has. Halifax 
said to our investigator that it hadnt had any issues with stickers causing ATM card 
retention but was doing some testing. In its response to this provisional decision, Id 
like Halifax to tell me what that testing has concluded. Halifax also said that it was 
looking to add tactile dots to its cards in the future, and again Id like Halifax to update 
me on this. In the meantime, Ive spoken to Ms S and its clear that practical 
suggestions that a staff member made when she recently visited a branch have helped 
to an extent. That member of staff suggested, for example, marking the signature strip 
on the back of each card in a way that helps Ms S differentiate between the various 
cards she has. It is, however, clear, based on the conversation I had with her, that Ms 
S still gets confused between the various cards she has. So, I do still think Halifax can 
and should do more here. In coming to that conclusion Ive taken, amongst other 
things, the Equality Act 2010 into account as Im satisfied that its relevant law.
Ms S told me, when I spoke to her, that she has a mobile phone which shes able to 
use to shop online  provided the card details have been saved into the relevant 
website or app  and shes also able to us Halifaxs mobile app. Shes able to unlock 
her mobile phone using her fingerprint. I accept that being able to log onto Halifaxs 
mobile app means Ms S can check her card details. I also accept that the app allows 
Ms S to manage her accounts and those she helps with. Ms S has told me that. But it 
doesnt help her when shes trying to work out which card she has in her hand. Ms S 
has told me that she tries to put the cards back in the right place after she takes them 
out of her wallet and that she has strategies to help with this too. But these dont 
always work.
In short, Im satisfied that Halifaxs printed cards have caused, and continue to cause, 
Ms S problems when it comes to managing her accounts and those she helps with. I 
do think Halifax could and should have done more. Ms S has confirmed bright 
coloured stickers, as long as they dont interfere with ATM use, would work as a 
solution. In the meantime, Im satisfied that the changes caused Ms S significant 
distress and inconvenience for which an award of £500 would be appropriate. So, 
thats the award Im minded to make.
Both parties were invited to reply to my provisional decision, and both parties did. Ms S was 
broadly speaking happy with what Id said. Halifax updated me on steps it had taken to make 
its cards more accessible for customers with visual impairments. Those steps include the 
fact that they now issue credit cards with a notch carved out at the bottom, debit cards with 
three embossed tactile dots next to the chip and cashpoint cards with six embossed tactile 
dots next to the chip. In addition, branches are now able to order tactile sticky dots  where a 
customer need is identified  to be stuck on the bottom-right corner of the front of the card so as not to impact the use of the card. Halifax also gave me a number Ms S could call to 
arrange the right option for her. In addition, Halifax agreed to pay the compensation I had 
said I was minded to award.
Putting things right
Having spoken to Ms S, and having agreed to pass on the information Halifax has sent to 
me, she was happy with my provisional decision. Im, therefore, going to issue a final 
decision along the lines of my provisional decision as I consider that to be a fair resolution to 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Ms S £500 in compensation for the significant distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. In the meantime, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has 
introduced additional options to help Ms S differentiate between her cards details of which 
Ive passed onto Ms S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman