DRN-2252264
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd turned down a claim she made on her mobile
phone insurance policy.
What happened
Miss R took out insurance for her mobile phone with Bastion in July 2019. A few weeks later
she made a claim as shed lost her phone at a festival. Bastion turned this down. It said this
was because to validate the cover she was required to submit a photograph showing the
phones IMEI number (its unique identifier) and she hadnt done that. Miss R said this wasnt
made clear to her when she took the policy out. She was also unhappy that shed been
charged a cancellation fee when she said she didnt want to renew her policy.
Our investigator didnt think that the information Bastion was responsible for producing did
make the IMEI requirements clear. And she didnt think that any of the other information
Miss R might have seen would have done so either. In particular although she should have
been sent a welcome email about the validation requirements Miss R said she hadnt
received this and there wasnt evidence to show it was sent. So she thought Bastion should
reconsider the claim and make a new decision taking into account the remaining policy
terms. She also felt it was unfair of Bastion to apply a cancellation charge to prevent an auto
renewal and noted there was no reference to this in the policy terms.
Miss R said she had provided her IMEI number at the point of purchase; it was the photo of
her phone displaying this she wasnt told to send. Bastion didnt agree. It thought Miss R had
been made aware of the validation requirements during the sales process and in the
welcome email. It provided an extract from its email tracking software showing there had
been no bounce back from Miss Rs account. And it said the cancellation terms on renewal
were set out in an agreement between Miss R and her broker.
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Bastion has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the policy terms. I can see these include conditions which say within
seven days of cover starting the policyholder must provide a number of things. For a mobile
phone that includes a photograph of Your IMEI number clearly displayed on Your mobile
phone. The terms go on to explain how the IMEI number can be obtained and say that if a
policyholder fails to validate prior to raising a claim the claim will be denied.
Bastion has explained that it needs this information so in the event of a subsequent claim it
can be satisfied the phone being claimed for is the same one that was insured under the
policy. And I can see in their response to Miss Rs claim Bastion said she hadnt provided a
photograph showing the IMEI number of her phone and so hadnt met the validation
requirements of her policy.
Miss R says she did provide the IMEI number but I dont think its in dispute that she didnt
provide a photograph showing her phone displaying that number. So she hasnt done what
the policy requires. But that isnt the only issue here. I also need to think about whether its
fair of Bastion to rely on that term in this case. And the relevant rules say a customer must
be provided with appropriate information about a policy so they can make an informed
decision about whether to take it out. That should include information about the significant
benefits, exclusions and limitations of the policy. The rules say that where a broker is
involved they would be responsible for providing that information  but the insurer (Bastion in
this case) is responsible for producing it.
I think the requirement to provide an IMEI number is a significant feature of the policy as
Miss Rs phone wouldnt be covered unless she provided that. And if Bastion didnt make
that clear in the information it was responsible for (and that wasnt made clear anywhere
else) I dont think it would be fair of it to rely on this condition not being met to turn down
Miss Rs claim.
Bastion has argued it did make that clear but I dont agree. I can see Miss R was able to
access Bastions insurance product information document as part of the sales process. But
Ive reviewed that document and it doesnt make any reference to the requirement to provide
an IMEI number. I accept this is referenced in the policy terms but it only features on page
eight (of a 12 page document). I dont think that did enough on its own to draw this important
requirement to Miss Rs attention.
So I agree with our investigator that the requirement to provide an IMEI number wasnt made
clear to Miss R in the information Bastion produced. Ive thought about whether this would
have been clear to Miss R from any of the other information she was provided with. It
appears Miss R would have seen information during the sales process which referenced the
gadget validation process but that didnt explain in detail what was required.
However, I appreciate the welcome email Miss R should have been sent did explain this.
Miss R says she didnt receive this. Bastion believe it was sent. However, it hasnt provided
a system record in support of that and the information about bounce backs it has provided is
general and doesnt show what happened in this case. But I dont think this makes a
difference to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because looking through what Bastion
has said I dont think the issue with the IMEI number is the only reason why it turned down
the claim.
Miss Rs policy says that for cover to be valid a policyholder also needs to provide
photographic evidence that Your Gadgets are in a good and operational state. And
although Bastion talked about the IMEI number in isolation when turning down Miss Rs
claim in a subsequent response it referenced in more general terms the validation
requirements and the need to provide photographs showing your gadget is in a good and
operational state.
In its submissions to us Bastion said Miss R hadnt provided the IMEI number but also went
on to explain that validation is required to satisfy insurers that a mobile device is in good
working condition at the time of purchase. So I think its reasonable to say Bastions reasons
for declining the claim arent solely because Miss R hadnt provided a photograph showing
the IMEI number but because she hadnt met the more general validation requirements
including the need for evidence of the condition of her phone.
Ive thought about whether those requirements were made clear to her by Bastion. And I can
see the product information document says within 7 days of your policy starting you must
provide us with photographic evidence that your gadget is in a good and operational state.
On that basis I think Bastion has provided appropriate information about this requirement.Miss R didnt supply this information. And I think it is fair of Bastion to turn down the claim
because she didnt. Not providing that information means Bastion doesnt have evidence to
show the state of the phone at the point the policy was taken out. That means its not been
able to establish what the pre accident condition of the phone was.
So while I think it was wrong of it to initially turn the claim down because Miss R hadnt
provided her IMEI number (as that requirement wasnt made clear to her) I think it was
entitled to do so because she hadnt provided photographs showing the condition of the
phone  as the documentation Bastion was responsible for explained she needed to do that.
If Miss R has concerns about whether the seller provided her with that information as part of
the sales process then thats something shed need to raise as a separate complaint against
the seller. It isnt something that Bastion, as the insurer, is responsible for.
But while I think Bastion was entitled to turn down the claim Miss R made I understand that
for at least a period of time she never had any devices registered on this policy. And under
the terms of the policy until she did so she could never have made a successful claim. So
she was effectively paying for cover that would never be of benefit to her  meaning there
was no risk to Bastion.
I think thats supported by the policy terms themselves which say if proof of ownership
(which includes the validation information) isnt provided within seven days of the start date
this may result in the cancellation of the policy and the return of the premium to You.
Taking that into account I dont think its fair for Bastion to retain the premiums Miss R has
paid for a period when there was no device registered against the policy. So it will need to
return the premiums taken while that was the case. I understand the policy hasnt renewed
but if it is still in place and no device has been registered then in line with the policy terms
Bastion can cancel the policy.
I appreciate Miss R is also unhappy about incurring charges when she said she didnt want
her policy to auto renew. And I cant see anything in the policy terms that entitles Bastion to
charge those sums. But it doesnt appear that Bastion has done so. It appears those charges
were applied by the seller of the policy and Bastion says they form part of the terms of
business between Miss R and the seller of the policy. Ive reviewed those terms on the
sellers website and that does appear to be the case. So thats something Miss R would
need to pursue as a separate complaint against the seller.
Responses to my provisional decision
Bastion didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss R did respond and said she was 
happy with the settlement Id proposed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information for me to consider I dont have any 
reason to change the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decisionIve decided to uphold this complaint in part. Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd will need to refund 
the premiums Miss R paid for the period when there was no device registered against her 
policy. I understand the policy hasnt renewed but if it is still in place then in line with the 
policy terms Bastion can cancel the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman