DRN-3941049
The complaint
Mr R complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) decision to decline 
his claim to cover the full value of his watch under his home contents insurance.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, in summary, Mr R took out a multicover policy and, following a theft at his 
home, Mr R made a claim for a number of items. Part of the claim included two watches 
which Admiral offered to settle for £1,000 each. Mr R said the watches were worth more, so 
he complained. Admiral responded and explained, in relation to watch A, they couldnt find 
any evidence to show Mr R had informed them hed bought it or asked for it to be added to 
the policy. Admiral said the policy schedule does say any high-risk items worth more than 
£1,000 must be specified in the table in the policy schedule to be covered to their full value. 
They explained as watch A wasnt specified on the table, the maximum this would be 
covered for is £1,000. 
In relation to watch B, Admiral explained this was put on policy in 2021 but during the call 
where Mr R provided the valuation, it was agreed Mr R would call back to pay the additional 
premium needed for it to be on cover. Admiral said Mr R didnt then call back to pay the 
additional premium so watch B wasnt put on cover. They explained theyd sent Mr R 
renewal documents and they ask customers to check these details to ensure theyre correct. 
They explained they didnt hear back from Mr R so they would only settle this for £1,000.   
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and Admiral on 30 January 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
The dispute here, and what Mr R has asked our service to consider, relates to the 
settlement offered for watch A and watch B. Admiral have settled the claim for these 
at the unspecified item limit of £1,000 because they say these items were never 
covered by the policy. Mr R says he did specify these items so they should be 
covered for their full market value.
Watch A 
My starting point is Mr Rs policy booklet. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
under a section headed Important it says, Any high-risk item or collection valued at 
more than the unspecified item limit must be shown on your Home Policy Schedule 
as a specified item. And, We will not pay more than the unspecified item limit for 
any single high-risk item or collection not shown on your Home Policy Schedule. 
Please contact us if you need to add a specified item to your Home Policy Schedule.  
Ive looked at the policy schedule and theres a section here for specified items which 
says, Single unspecified High Risk items worth more than £1,000 must be specified 
in the table above to be covered to their full value. I can see there is an item listed 
here and Admiral settled this at the value listed. 
Admiral say theyve checked their systems and theres no evidence of Mr R having 
called to let them know hed bought watch A or ask for this to be added to his policy. 
The terms and conditions require a customer to contact Admiral to add a specified 
item. Mr R says he recalls speaking with Admiral and was told it would be covered 
and he didnt need to do anything further. Ive taken into consideration both account 
of events and thought carefully about what I believe, more likely than not, has 
happened here. 
The first point I would make is that the policy schedule doesnt list watch A as a 
specified item. In addition to this, in relation to watch B, when Mr R told Admiral hed 
bought this watch and wanted it on cover, they sent him an email asking for further 
information. I cant see a similar email was sent to Mr R in relation to watch A and, 
given this is also a high-risk item which would need to be included in the specified 
items list, I believe Admiral wouldve sent a similar email asking for further 
information. Given theres no evidence Mr R told Admiral about watch A, or that he 
wanted it covered as a specified item on the policy, I dont think its unfair for Admiral 
to settle the claim for watch A at the unspecified item limit. 
Watch B 
I can see Admiral emailed Mr R on 9 January 2020 and asked him to send a 
purchase receipt or valuation for specified items over £10,000 Mr R is asked to 
refer to his policy schedule to see which item this applies to. It goes further to say, if 
Admiral dont receive this information, this item will be removed from cover. This 
communication was sent from an email which contains noreply in the address. This 
email also says, Please do not reply to this email as replies will not be received. 
and it asks Mr R to use a Contact us link at the bottom of the email. Mr R then 
replies to the noreply email address on 18 January with a copy of his purchase 
receipt and warranty card for watch B. Admiral say they didnt receive this email so 
watch B was removed from the specified items section. 
Ive listened to a call on 11 March where Mr R explains hes calling to check if watch 
B has been added to his policy. The call handler explains it was originally added to 
the policy but then removed as they didnt receive the information they requested  
and theyd refunded the additional premium of £88.25 to Mr R. The call handler then 
gives Mr R an email address to send the information to. Mr R explains he needs 
watch B added immediately because its high value and the call handler then 
confirms he has placed watch B back on cover during the call but explains it will be 
removed if Mr R doesnt provide the requested information within 48 hours. The call 
handler explains, as theyd refunded the additional premium for this item already, 
there may be a charge that well have to apply The call handler says hell place 
a suspend on the payment until they get the requested information to avoid Mr R 
paying this and then getting another refund if the information isnt received. Mr R then 
asks if he can use a different card to pay this and the call handler explains hell wait 
for the information first and then hell call Mr R to take the additional balance of 
£50.77 to cover watch B. 
I can see Mr R then sent an email the same day to the email address provided by the 
call handler and, as well as providing the requested information, he explains he 
needs watch B to be added to his policy. 
Admiral accept they received the email but theres no evidence they then called Mr R 
to take the additional premium. Ive listened to a call Mr R makes to Admiral on 15 
March. Mr R had a multicover policy which covered car and home insurance. During 
this call, Mr R enquires about temporarily adding a car to his policy until his renewal 
date in April and the call handler explains the additional cost for this is £230.78. Mr R then says I had to pay for my home insurance specified item, can I do that 
altogether? and the call handler explains anything owed that he needs to pay on the 
policy can be paid now  Mr R then agrees to pay the additional amount. The call 
handler explains shell send Mr R confirmation of everything and asks him to double 
check all documents to make sure its all correct. The call handler then explains shell 
be taking a payment of £281.55  and Mr R then pays this. 
Having listened to these calls, theres a number of points Admiral make which I 
disagree with. Firstly, in their complaint response, Admiral say, during the call on 11 
March, Mr R told the call handler he would call back to make the payment for the 
additional premium. They also say, during the call on 15 March, nothing was 
discussed about watch B. In their response to our service, Admiral say watch B 
wasnt added as Mr R didnt agree the price to cover this. 
During the call on 11 March the call handler makes it clear they will call Mr R  and 
this is mentioned more than once. At no point is it agreed that Mr R will call. Theres 
no dispute that Admiral didnt call Mr R. So, I dont agree with Admirals point that Mr 
R agreed to call them. Then, during the call on 15 March, while watch B isnt 
specifically mentioned, I think its safe and reasonable to conclude Mr Rs reference 
to home insurance specified item refers to watch B and the payment he makes 
includes the additional premium to place watch B on cover. I say this for two reasons. 
Firstly, the conversation about watch B only took place four days earlier and, given 
that Mr R explained during that call he wanted this covered as a specified item, I 
think its more likely than not he was referring to watch B. Secondly, during the call 
on 11 March, Mr R is told the additional premium for watch B is £50.77. Then, during 
the call on 15 March, when Mr R asks to pay the outstanding amount for the 
specified item, the call handler adds £50.77 to the £230.78 quoted for adding a new 
car to the policy. I havent been provided with any information to show this additional 
£50.77 is for anything other than the additional premium owed for placing watch B on 
cover. So, I disagree with Admirals points that Mr R didnt mention watch B during 
the call on 15 March or that he didnt agree the price. I think therefore, once Mr R 
pays the total additional premium, it reassures him that watch B is now on cover. 
Admiral say new policy documents were sent to Mr R at this time but without watch B 
appearing on the specified items list  so, I think this suggests the call handler on 11 
March didnt actually place watch B on cover on their system despite giving Mr R an 
assurance that he had. Admiral say they feel Mr R was aware watch B wasnt 
included on the policy and the policy went through a renewal in 2020 as well as 2021 
without it appearing on there. I havent seen the updated documents sent to Mr R 
following the call on 15 March or his 2020/2021 renewal, but Admiral say watch B 
didnt appear on the specified items list. If thats the case, then I dont believe Mr R 
should be responsible for not noticing this. I say this because it was confirmed by the 
call handler on 11 March that watch B was on cover and, given that he then paid the 
£50.77, I think it was reasonable for Mr R to assume that watch B was now listed on 
the policy schedule. 
I accept Admiral did explain to Mr R he should check his documents. Generally, I 
think its important for consumers to check their policy documents to make sure 
everything is correct and to ensure cover is in place for everything they want insured. 
While I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to invite Mr R to do this, in the 
circumstances of this case, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr R not to have 
checked. The new policy documents sent to Mr R wouldve set out what was agreed 
during the call on 15 March and the renewal documents for 2020-2021 wouldve 
been sent out only around three weeks after this call. Given what was discussed 
during those calls, the payment Mr R made and the short duration of time between the calls and the policy documents being sent, Im not persuaded there was any 
reason Mr R shouldve had any suspicion that watch B wouldnt be appearing on the 
policy schedule. From the events which occurred, I think Mr R had every reason to 
be confident that watch B was now on cover.  
This takes me to the 2021/2022 renewal  this being the policy year during which the 
theft occurred. Watch B doesnt appear on the policy schedule, so Ive thought 
carefully about whether this shouldve been picked up by Mr R. While the previous 
renewal was only around three weeks after the calls in March 2020, this renewal was 
over a year later. As Ive said above, I think its important for consumers to check 
their policy documents to make sure theyre accurate. But in the circumstances of 
this case, I dont think Mr R not checking the documents means Admiral shouldnt be 
responsible to meet the claim. 
Ive already found that Mr R did pay the additional premium for watch B to be placed 
on cover and the call handler on 11 March didnt actually place watch B on cover on 
the system. So, Ive thought about what shouldve happened had no error been 
made. If the call handler had updated the system to cover watch B  as he confirmed 
he had done, then this wouldve appeared on the updated documents sent, as well 
as the two subsequent renewals. Im persuaded this wouldve been the case as the 
watch which does appear on the list stayed on cover for all renewals following Mr R 
first telling Admiral about that watch. So, I see no reason why watch B wouldve been 
taken off cover for the 2021/2022 renewal. And, that being the case, it wouldve 
appeared on the specified items list and therefore not subject to the £1,000 
unspecified items limit. 
I havent seen any information which persuades me that, leading up to  and during  
the 2021/2022 renewal, Mr R shouldve had a reasonable suspicion that watch B 
might not be listed. In fact, theres no dispute that watch B was on cover for a short 
period when Mr R first asked Admiral to cover this as a high-risk item. So, I think its 
reasonable for Mr R to have believed the same had happened following his calls in 
March. I do wish to make clear, Im not saying that its unreasonable for an insurer to 
expect a consumer to check their policy to ensure its correct. What I am saying 
though is that, in the circumstances of this case, and given the events which 
occurred, I think greater weight should be attached to Admirals error in not adding 
watch B to the specified items list. 
Taking this all into account, I intend to ask Admiral to reconsider Mr Rs claim for 
watch B. I acknowledge that, given watch B didnt appear on the policy schedule for 
two renewal periods, the premium Mr R paid for these years mightve been lower 
than it shouldve been. So, Admiral can recalculate the premium for those policy 
years and deduct any additional premium owed from any settlement, should the 
outcome of their reconsideration lead to settlement of watch B as a specified item. I 
can see the error has had an impact on Mr R  hes been left upset, worried and 
frustrated by watch B not being placed on cover. So, Admiral should also pay £200 
compensation to Mr R.   
So, subject to any further comments from Mr R or Admiral, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require Admiral to reconsider the claim and pay 
compensation.   
Following my provisional decision, both parties have confirmed they accept the decision. 
Given that both parties have responded, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with both parties accepting the decision, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral have made an error in not placing watch B on cover and, 
had they done so, watch B wouldve been included on the specified items list. So, Admiral 
should reconsider Mr Rs claim for watch B further, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It is of course open to them to make any other further enquiries they 
feel are necessary, but I dont think its reasonable for them to use the arguments they have 
to limit the claim to £1,000. Admiral should also pay Mr R £200 compensation for the upset, 
worry and frustration caused.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman