DRN-3725725
The complaint
B, a sole trader business, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its bank account in 
error.
What happened
Barclays accepts that it made an error in closing the account. It had asked B for information 
in a know your customer exercise in 2021 and not logged that it had been received. Barclays 
says it reinstated the account. If offered to pay B £250 to reflect the inconvenience caused. 
And when the complaint was referred to this service offered a further £100 as it hadnt 
ordered a replacement bank card.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and B paid further 
compensation of £150 and an amount of interest to reflect that the original compensation 
wasnt paid. He said that the account was closed on 13 October 2021 and not fully reinstated 
including with the previous balance until 4 November 2021. During this time the owner of B 
had made some eight hours of calls and also attended a branch. B had received letters 
about missed direct debit payments and these had to be rearranged. B hadnt provided any 
evidence of direct financial loss such as missed payment fees.
Barclays said it agreed to pay the compensation.
B didnt agree. It said that this didnt reflect the distress and inconvenience involved or the 
impact on the owners credit rating. This was all no fault of B. It wanted some £1,500 to 
£2,000 in compensation to reflect this.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 September 2022. I set out below what I said.
It isnt in dispute that the closure of the account was in error. And B had no notice of this 
happening. It contacted Barclays about this on 15 October 2021. On 22 October 2021 it 
received an email stating that the account had been reinstated that day and that in three 
working days it would be fully back to normal. It was told that direct debits would be 
reinstated. On 3 November 2021 a direct debit payment was returned unpaid even though 
there were funds in the account. On 4 November 2021 the significant previous balance of 
over £50,000 that had been placed in a sundry account was credited back to Bs account. 
On 8 November 2021 a first successful direct debit payment was made and on 10 November 
2021 a cheque was paid. On 16 November 2021 the owner of B tried to credit cash to the 
account through a third party using his business deposit card. He found that this had been 
cancelled when the account had been closed and not reordered. 
The owner of B explains that a cheque to a supplier was returned unpaid while the account 
was closed. He received a number of letters about direct debits being cancelled and so not 
paid. And he was unclear whether they had been correctly reinstated. He had to deal with a 
tax payment due and was able to avoid a penalty. And he says that the communication he 
received was poor.
B was able to trade. From 22 October 2021 for example it was receiving account credits for 
the card payments it had processed. But I wasnt persuaded it could access its money until 4 
November 2021, the day after a direct debit payment had been returned for no apparent 
reason. And thats when it had received all its funds back in the account. B explains that its 
new cheque book now starts from cheque number 1 again. I suspected that there is nothing 
that can be done about that as the account was reopened.
I appreciated that the owner of B was reluctant to contact the businesses B paid direct debits 
to and expected Barclays to sort this out. Barclays could reinstate the mandates but not 
ensure that the businesses collected the money or be aware of what they had individually 
told B. So, Im afraid it was reasonable to expect B to take action where possible to mitigate 
the impact and arrange manual payments if it had access to other funds. I appreciated that it 
was unclear whether the payments would be taken in future or not. B was also cautious 
about writing cheques as it didnt want any further ones to be returned unpaid. As our 
investigator has said it made a number of lengthy calls to Barclays during the period.
Unfortunately, while the account could be closed straightaway the reverse wasnt true. 
Having said that I was unclear why it did take the time it did to reinstate things. Every 
additional day involved in my view resulted in more inconvenience for B and the owner 
explains his distress at what happened. 
I didnt have evidence of specific financial loss or costs. I said I would base my assessment 
on the following factors. The need to deal with the direct debits and I understood B had 
some ten payable a month. The reputational damage caused by a cheque to a supplier 
being unpaid and so the inconvenience for B to address this. The ongoing inconvenience of 
not having a bank account and working around this. The calls the owner made to Barclays. 
The length of time B didnt have access to its money. The deposit card not being reordered. 
And the distress caused to the owner. I didnt have information about any impact on the 
credit record and as I said I would have expected B to take action to mitigate this and which I 
recognised in the elements of inconvenience I referred to above.
I didnt consider all these elements have been fully recognised in the compensation of £500. 
I said I wouldnt be breaking things down by specific component and I would reach my own 
judgement about what is fair and reasonable overall taking into account our published 
guidelines. Having done so I considered that £750 is appropriate. I didnt make any interest 
award for the original compensation of £250 not being paid in October 2021. Barclays said it 
wouldnt have been paid because B clearly didnt then accept that as reasonable. I said 
Barclays should issue a letter to B if requested setting out the error and that payments were 
cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it accepted my decision and would agree to pay the compensation. It 
acknowledged the impact for B and that it didnt identify opportunities to mitigate what 
happened.
B didnt agree and said that what was being offered was an absolute disgrace given the 
time and stress involved and was only about £10 a week since this happened. There was no 
mention of the owner driving to and spending time in a branch. He said he was annoyed that 
he hadnt taken this to a solicitor rather than this service. And Barclays had accepted it had 
made a mistake. There was no mention of the impact on the credit rating and whats 
reported. B also didnt see why it was being anonymised and wanted what happened to be public. B said it didnt think Barclays was concerned other than to get its fees and charges 
paid.
Im sorry to hear how the owner of B feels about whats happened. And that the 
compensation is insufficient. Ive set out my reasons in the provisional decision and taken 
into account our published guidelines about compensation. 
I made reference to the position regarding the owners credit rating in the report. Thats not 
information we have direct access to. And I also said that I didnt have evidence of specific 
financial loss or costs. I invited any further comments or evidence and Ive reviewed what the 
owner of B has said in a call with our investigator.
Having done so I dont consider theres a reasonable basis to increase the compensation 
further. We dont make punitive awards and I consider that this is fair overall. I fully 
appreciate that the owner of B doesnt agree. He is free to pursue this matter in court if he 
doesnt accept my decision and subject to any relevant time limits. Ill finally mention that we 
do anonymise all complainants as part of our process when we publish decisions for data 
protection.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1) Pay B £750
2) On Bs request provide a suitable letter explaining that the account was closed in 
error causing payments to be cancelled so it can provide this to its suppliers and 
clients.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman