DRN-3822243
The complaint
Mr W complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his pet insurance claim. My 
references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr W bought a pet insurance policy on-line for his and his partners dogs. He 
bought the optional add on of Travel Abroad Cover for an additional premium. The policy 
renewed in June 2022. The insurer was Great Lakes. Mr W is the policyholder.
In summer 2022 while Mr W and his partner were in Switzerland one of the dogs had an 
accident and had vet treatment there. Mr W claimed for the vet costs of about £2,100.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the policy covered his dog for treatment in the UK 
and EU but as Switzerland wasnt in the EU there was no cover for the claim.
Mr W complained to Great Lakes. In Great Lakes final response letter to him it apologised 
that the policy he saw on-line said there was cover for vet treatment worldwide as that was 
incorrect and would be changed. But Great Lakes said when Mr W bought and renewed the 
policy it emailed the correct policy document to him which didnt say cover was worldwide. 
Mr W should have read those policy documents to make sure the policy suited his needs 
and as he didnt contact Great Lakes the policy continued. Great Lakes accepted the 
different policy wording may have caused confusion for Mr W and it refunded the premium 
for the Travel Abroad Cover optional add on from when the policy began, which totalled 
£24.60. 
Mr W complained to us. In summary he said:
Hed specifically looked for an insurance policy that provided cover while travelling as 
they went annually to Switzerland to visit his partners family. 
When Great Lakes declined the claim he checked the policy wording it had emailed 
to him and saw there was only UK and EU cover. But he was surprised as he thought 
hed bought a policy with worldwide cover so he re-looked for the information he saw 
when buying the policy on-line. He said that when buying the policy through the 
website the link to the policy to read stated there was worldwide cover, so that was 
different to the policy sent to him.
He sent Great Lakes the weblink to the policy document saying there was worldwide 
cover and a screenshot of his policy sale process linking to that policy. Great Lakes 
had now removed the policy document giving worldwide cover from its website. 
He wants Great Lakes to acknowledge its mistake with the policy document, pay his 
claim and check if other customers have been affected by its mistake.
Our investigator said Great Lakes had unfairly declined the claim and it should pay the claim. 
Great Lakes disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. It said:
Its complaint handler who looked into Mr Ws complaint was inexperienced at the 
time and accepted his information and screenshot at face value without referring to 
his online journey when he bought the policy. On further investigation it couldnt 
prove either way if the policy with the worldwide cover wording was the one he saw 
when buying the policy. Mr W might have only recently searched for the old 
document with the worldwide cover wording on its website to support his complaint. 
The old document policy wording Mr W says he relied on also states the cover is for 
vet treatment in the EU.
The information on the selection page for the Travel Abroad Cover option had 
always clearly stated the policy gives EU cover, not worldwide cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before making my decision we told Great Lakes that from information in the policy 
I understand that the insurance intermediary was acting on behalf of Great Lakes when 
selling the policy, and it hasnt said my understanding is wrong. So Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes is responsible for any error in the policy sales process.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I think Great Lakes unreasonably declined Mr Ws claim. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that after Mr W bought the policy and on policy renewal Great Lakes sent 
Mr W a policy which said:
What we will pay for
Veterinary costs abroad
The benefits of the Cover if your pet needs medical treatment section are extended 
to cover necessary treatments for your pet in the EU.
I think that policy wording is clear theres cover for treatment in the EU and, as Switzerland 
isnt in the EU, under that policy wording Mr Ws claim wouldnt be covered.
But Mr W says that when he was buying the policy on-line there was a link which said read 
the full policy wording which took him to the policy which said:
What we will pay for
Veterinary costs abroad
The benefits of the Cover if your pet needs medical treatment section are extended 
to cover necessary treatments for your pet in the EU. Worldwide.
I think its fair for Mr W to believe that policy wording says theres cover for treatment in the 
EU and worldwide.
I have to decide whats more likely than not to have happened in all the circumstances. 
Great Lakes says it cant be certain which of the policy wordings Mr W would have seen 
when buying the policy. As Mr W, his partner and dogs regularly travelled to Switzerland, a 
non-EU country, I think its highly likely that he would have been looking for a policy that provided worldwide cover when buying pet insurance. So I think its more likely than not that 
Mr W did see the policy wording which says there is worldwide cover when he bought the 
policy, and that he bought the policy on the basis that it provided worldwide cover.
The policy sent to Mr W after he bought the policy and on renewal said cover was in the EU, 
with no mention of worldwide cover. But I think that as he reasonably believed he was 
covered worldwide from the policy wording he saw when buying the policy he wouldnt have 
reasonably needed to check that issue again.
The policy wording Mr W saw when buying the policy, and the policy wording Great Lakes 
sent him, both say:
Your limits and excess
Your UK vet fee cover extends in the EU.
Great Lakes says the limits and excess policy wording should have told Mr W there was no 
worldwide cover, even if he saw a policy that said there was worldwide cover. But I think a 
consumer looking for what cover a policy provides would reasonably mainly or only look at 
the policy wording under the heading What we will pay for. So I dont think the wording 
under Your limits and excess heading would highlight to Mr W that cover was only for the 
UK and EU when the policy I think he saw says there is worldwide cover. 
I accept that when Mr W was looking to select the Added Travel Cover its likely he would 
have seen the wording vet fee limit extends within the EU. But that wording relates to the 
vet fee limit rather than where there is cover. I dont think the vet fee limit wording meant 
Mr W should have reasonably realised that cover was only limited to the UK and EU when 
hed seen the policy wording saying there was worldwide cover when he was buying the 
policy. 
I think that Mr W being given the wrong policy wording during the sale of the policy 
disadvantaged him. I dont think he would have bought the policy if it had been made clear to 
him that the policy didnt provide worldwide cover. Great Lakes told us that Mr W has now 
cancelled the policy which I think supports that he only bought the policy because he thought 
it gave worldwide cover. 
Great Lakes hasnt said it would be impossible for Mr W to get worldwide cover through an 
alternative policy. So I think he would have bought an alternative policy that gave worldwide 
cover which means his claim wouldnt have been declined just because the vet treatment 
was in Switzerland. That means Great Lakes refunding the cost of the Travel Abroad Cover 
option wasnt enough to fairly put things right for Mr W.
In all the circumstances I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Great Lakes to pay the 
claim as Ive set out below.
We dont have the statutory power to make Great Lakes re-review any other claims its 
declined in the same circumstances as Mr Ws claim, if any, but it may wish to do so given 
my findings.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must pay Mr Ws claim subject to the remaining policy terms, conditions and 
limits, plus interest as set out below. Its reasonable for Great Lakes to deduct the premium 
for the Travel Abroad Cover option, that it refunded to Mr W, from the claim settlement as 
Mr W should pay the additional premium as he is getting the benefit of cover from that 
optional add on.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay the claim subject to the remaining policy terms, 
conditions and limits. Interest* must be added at 8% simple a year from the date of the claim 
to the date of settlement. Great Lakes Insurance SE can deduct the premium for the Travel 
Abroad Cover option, that it refunded to Mr W, from the claim settlement.
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr W a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman