DRN-4003772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained about delays caused by Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) in repairing 
damage caused by a leak following a claim under their home insurance policy. Mr and Mrs F 
were insured as part of a wider block policy.
What happened
Following a leak in their home, Mr and Mrs F made a successful claim to Zurich. To resolve 
the claim, Zurich appointed contractors to rectify the damage caused by the leak. Mr and 
Mrs F said the contractor made a series of visits to their property but up til today no 
physical repairs have been effected. Mr and Mrs F said, we made several complaints, 
wrote several emails, several phone calls but nothing was done. They were unhappy that 
their correspondence often went unanswered.
Mr and Mrs F feel theyve been left to live in an unhealthy environment and believe their 
safety has been compromised. They said their property has degenerated and some of their 
facilities cant be used. They want Zurich to complete the repairs and pay reasonable 
compensation. Several months after the complaint, Mr and Mrs F remained frustrated with 
the lack of progress getting their repairs completed, so they accepted a cash settlement to 
allow them to move on and get their own contractors to do the work. 
In October 2021, Zurichs contractor said it offered to either repair the damage or cash settle 
the claim. However, Zurich said the cash settlement offer was not accepted because it 
didn't include the alternative accommodation costs which would normally be paid had the 
repairs been carried out by the approved contractors. Zurich said both parties failed to 
progress the claim  it said this may have been down to some sort of confusion / lack of 
understanding. In Jan 2022, Zurichs contractor said he contacted Mr and Mrs F to ask how 
they wanted to proceed with the claim.
In April 2022, Mr and Mrs F made a complaint. Zurich said it failed in registering Mr and Mrs 
Fs complaint and paid £150 in compensation for this. In addition Zurichs contractor paid 
£150 compensation for the delays it felt it had contributed to.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought that although Mr and Mrs 
F felt the repairs were delayed, she thought there was evidence that Zurich didnt know that 
Mr and Mrs F had opted for the repair (instead of a cash settlement). She thought the £300 
paid in compensation was fair for Zurichs part in delaying the claim. Mr and Mrs F 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 1 February 2023. I said:
Having read the testimonies provided by both Mr and Mrs F and Zurich, I think there is 
conflicting accounts over what exactly happened during this claim. Therefore, I have read 
the supporting information that has been provided to try and find clearer evidence that helps 
me properly understand the circumstances of this claim up until Zurich issued its final 
response in July 2022.
I can see the claim progressed well after it was initially registered in August 2021. Zurich 
appointed contractors and an initial inspection of the damage took place promptly. A report 
summarising the findings of the inspection was produced on 8 September 2021. I can see 
Mr and Mrs F contacted Zurich two weeks later to try and find out what would happen next. 
Zurich confirmed its contractor would be in touch to arrange drying and then the building 
works. I think Zurich should be explaining to Mr and Mrs F in advance on what to expect  I 
think Zurich couldve been more pro-active.
Early in October, Zurichs contractor provided it with a revised schedule of works, which 
included guidance that alternative accommodation (AA) would be required whilst the works 
were being carried out. I can see in mid-October, Mr and Mrs F tried to get an update on the 
progress of their claim. I can see at this stage there were internal memos between Zurich 
and its contractors. The contractor asked for confirmation that Mr and Mrs F were in AA so it 
could start work (it was suggested this would need to be for 12 weeks). I think this shows a 
lack of communication between Zurich and its contractors, as AA had never been proposed 
to Mr and Mrs F.
On 22 October, Mr and Mrs F asked about the possibility of a cash settlement instead of 
having the works carried out. It appears they were offered a settlement value of £2,542. Mr 
and Mrs F asked for a breakdown of the cash settlement.
In mid-January 2022 after Mr and Mrs F had chased Zurich, they were informed by its 
contractor that it couldnt discuss the details of the cash settlement with them. I can see the 
contractor then informed Zurich on 1 February that it had offered Mr and Mrs F a cash 
settlement and was waiting to hear if Mr and Mrs F accepted it. In March, I can see Zurich 
tried to get updates themselves from its contractor on the progress of the claim. I dont think 
Mr and Mrs F were provided the information they needed, and I think there is further 
information of a communication breakdown between Zurich and its contractors.
I can see in April, Mr and Mrs F contacted Zurich and said they wanted Zurich to carry out 
the repair works. Zurichs complaint notes dont capture why the cash settlement wasnt 
taken up by Mr and Mrs F, but they have since confirmed that the settlement wasnt enough 
to cover the cost of the repairs and hadnt taken in to account an allowance for AA. Later in 
April, I can see Mr and Mrs F raised a formal complaint with Zurich due to the claim delays 
and frustration at the continual lack of information provided by Zurichs contractors on the 
progress of the claim. I can see little progress was made on the claim until Zurich issued its 
final response to the complaint in July 2022.
Ive considered these events until July 2022. Im aware a new complaint may have been 
raised for events after this date  but for clarity, I can only consider the information that is 
available to me from this investigation and those points that Zurich had opportunity to 
comment upon in its final response.
I can see Zurich and its contractors has paid Mr and Mrs F £300 in total for compensation. 
So, I have considered whether I think this is reasonable for the distress and inconvenience 
caused during this time. I dont think it is, so Im intending to uphold this complaint and Ill 
explain why I think this.
I start from the position that Zurich is an expert in handling claims  it does it every day and 
should do this well, whereas Mr and Mrs F wont be familiar with the claims process. My 
expectation is that the claims expert should facilitate the process and make it easy for the policyholder to navigate. There should be evidence that Zurich has led Mr and Mrs F through 
the process.
However, from early on  I can see Mr and Mrs F were asking for help in understanding 
things and were getting little back in the way of answers. Examples include asking for next 
steps or getting an understanding of how their cash settlement offer was calculated.
I think there is evidence the cash settlement initially offered was on the low side  which is 
ultimately why it wasnt accepted. I can see the reserve (estimate of the maximum price) 
that Zurich thought the repairs would cost increased throughout the claim discussion. The 
reserve was significantly higher than the cash settlement that was offered. Mr and Mrs F 
didnt think the offer included an allowance for alternative accommodation. I havent seen a 
breakdown of the offer, but given the amount, Im certain it didnt include an amount which 
reflect Zurichs contractors view that AA would be needed for 12 weeks.
The settlement offer wasnt part of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, so I wont conclude whether I 
think this was fair  however, I think it did lead to some of the delays. I think if Mr and Mrs F 
felt the offer was sufficient to allow them to get the works completed by someone else and 
would provide cover for them to take AA then they wouldve accepted it. However, Mr and 
Mrs Fs attempts to understand the offer and ultimately discuss it with Zurich failed as 
Zurichs contractors wouldnt meaningfully engage on this point. I think this caused some 
avoidable delays.
Between October and January, Zurich provided no meaningful information  the deadlock 
was broken by Mr and Mrs F chasing Zurich. I think this demonstrates Zurich and its 
contractors reactive approach during this claim. There is also evidence that Zurich struggled 
to get updates itself from its contractors.
I would expect a claim of this nature made in August to be concluded at least by the end of 
that year. So, the claim has been delayed by six months or more (up until July 2022). Whilst 
I think it could be argued Mr and Mrs F contributed slightly to this by not responding promptly 
every time, I think most of the delay was Zurichs responsibility. So, I intend to uphold this 
complaint.
I think the delays have meant Mr and Mrs F have lived in conditions that were far from ideal. 
Theyve had to put up with the damage the leak caused for much longer than they shouldve 
had to. The poor handling of the claim has meant Mr and Mrs F have been left confused by 
the process and theyve had to constantly chase to try and understand what was happening 
 this wouldve been frustrating. Therefore, I intend to award an additional level of 
compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused (so £600 in total).
For the avoidance of doubt, I have not considered what happened after July 2022 or the 
fairness of the cash settlement offer as these werent part of the investigation of this 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs F accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Zurich didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs F:
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience (plus the £300 initially offered by 
Zurich and its contractors if it hasnt already been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman