DRN-2094975
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Flex Plus packaged bank account. He says that he was bullied into taking out this 
account. Mr F is also unhappy that credit interest was removed from his account and the 
customer service he received when he downgraded his account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Fs complaint and she concluded that Nationwide had 
not mis-sold the account. She also concluded that Mr F was told about the credit interest 
being removed from his account and that, even though Mr F had to make lengthy phone 
calls to downgrade his account, this did not merit an award of compensation.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
Having looked at everything that Mr F and Nationwide have provided, I am unable to 
conclude that the account had been mis-sold or that Nationwide has acted unreasonably. I 
will explain why.
Mr F says he was bullied into taking out the Flex Plus account. But I can see that when Mr F 
took out the account, he did so by applying for it online without the presence of Nationwide 
staff. So I do not find it plausible that he felt he had no choice to proceed. 
Mr F says it was not taken out online but in branch. But overall, based on all the evidence 
that is available, I think on balance the account was likely to have been taken out online. For 
completeness though, even if it had been taken out in branch, Mr F has not explained why 
exactly he felt he had no choice but to upgrade his account. I can see that he had held a fee 
free account prior to this upgrade and therefore I am satisfied that Mr F wouldve known that 
fee free accounts were available and an option for him. Given this, without persuasive 
testimony as to how he was forced to take the account, or why he thought he had to upgrade 
overall, I think that he took out the account knowing he did not have to.
Im satisfied that the account was sold to him on a non-advised basis. This means that 
Nationwide was not required to check if the packaged account, or any of the individual 
benefits it included, were right for Mr F. However, Nationwide was required to present Mr F 
with the important information about the account and associated benefits, so that he could 
decide for himself whether it was right for him. 
Nationwide says that its online application process wouldve required Mr F to check: that he 
was eligible for the account and packaged benefits; the monthly cost of the account; the 
main benefits and exclusions of the insurance products; as well as explain Mr Fs 
cancellation rights. And based on what both parties have said and provided, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this didnt happen. 
I accept that Mr F may have not been told everything about all of the features of the account. 
But I cant see anything specific that Mr F was not told that I think wouldve altered his 
decision to take out the account.
Given this I am unable to say that the Flex Plus account was mis-sold in the first instance.
I note Mr Fs concerns in relation to the removal of credit interest on his account which 
occurred in November 2019. I firstly should explain that Nationwide was entitled to alter the 
features of the Flex Plus account as this is a commercial decision that it is allowed to make. 
That said, Nationwide did have to inform Mr F of this prior to the change occurring. In this 
instance Nationwide have provided copies of a letter and an e-mail that it says it wouldve 
sent to Mr F prior to the change occurring. In addition, it has provided a copy of Mr Fs bank 
statements from October 2019 which also said that credit interest was being removed from 
the account. So on balance I think that Nationwide did enough to let Mr F know that credit 
interest was being removed from the account.
In relation to the issues surrounding Mr F downgrading the account, I understand Mr Fs 
frustration in relation to not being able to downgrade his account online. But again, this is a 
commercial decision that I cannot comment on. I also understand that due to Covid 19, the 
length of waiting times whilst calling Nationwide wouldve increased. But overall I have not 
seen enough to say that compensation is merited for this aspect of Mr Fs complaint.
So overall and having considered everything, I cant say that Nationwide mis-sold the 
account or acted unreasonably in this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman