DRN-3389610
The complaint
Mr A complains that Europ Assistance S.A (Europ) declined his travel insurance claim and is 
unhappy with its service.
What happened
On 2 February 2020 Mr A booked flights through an airline to travel to a european country 
from 29 July 2020 to 1 August 2020. He booked accommodation for the same dates. At the 
same time he bought a single trip travel insurance policy branded by the airline. The policy 
insurer was Europ.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) (formerly the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised all British nationals against all but 
essential travel due to the covid-19 pandemic. On 20 May 2020 the airline emailed Mr A 
cancelling the flight due to the impact of covid-19. Mr A claimed for his unused flight and 
accommodation costs saying the airline cancelled his flight. 
Europ declined the claim. Mr A complained but didnt receive a final response from it so Mr A 
complained to us. By then his flight costs had been refunded through the EU/UK Civil 
Aviation regulations. Mr A said it was unfair for the airline not to pay his accommodation 
costs as he couldnt use the accommodation because the airline cancelled the flight. He also 
said the airline didnt answer his emails. He wants payment of his accommodation costs.
Europ says the claim isnt covered by the policy terms.
Our investigator said Europ had fairly declined the claim under the policy terms. He 
explained that the airline and Europ were separate businesses and the airline had no 
obligations under the travel insurance policy. We had statutory powers to look at complaints 
about some activities of insurers but not airlines. 
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He added that:
The airline was his insurer or acting as agent for the insurer and the airline cancelled 
the flight so was liable for his claim.
Airlines cancelling flights should be covered by the policy.
He couldnt have travelled anyway as his wife had covid-19 two days before they 
were due to travel. He said he hadnt mentioned this before as it would confuse 
things as he was covered anyway and the airline wasnt responding to phone calls or 
answering e-mails to give guidance on what to do.
Our investigator told Mr A that he would need to make a separate claim to Europ for 
cancellation of the trip on the basis that his wife was ill.
Mr A asked that I consider whether his claim should be paid because the airline cancelled 
his flight or because of his wifes ill-health. He said his wife tried to email the insurer about 
her ill-health but couldnt do so and detailed why he thought the insurer had given very poor 
service. 
Our investigator said at this stage I could only make a decision about whether Mr As claim 
should be paid because the airline cancelled the flights. Mr A would still first need to make a 
separate claim to Europ about his wifes ill-health. Mr A would also first need to complain to 
Europ about its service if he wanted us to consider that issue and there was no evidence 
that hed already done so. Mr A disagrees and wants me to make a decision on all the 
matters hes raised.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relent insurance industry rules say that insurers should act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customers. And that insurers 
should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim
Ive seen Mr As comments as to why he thinks I should make a decision on all the matters 
hes raised and why he thinks the airline is equally liable with Europ for his claim. This 
decision is only about whether Europ fairly and reasonably declined Mr As trip cancellation 
due to the airline cancelling the flights. Ill explain why.
The airline is a completely separate business to Europ. The policy is an airline branded 
policy and Mr A bought the policy through the airline portal at the same time as the flights. 
But that doesnt mean the airline is Europs agent responsible for paying insurance claims. 
The airline is not the insurer of the policy and the airline is not responsible for paying claims 
under the policy. The airline will have its responsibilities to Mr A but they are not through the 
travel insurance policy and those are not issues that we have the statutory power to 
consider. So my decision is about whether Europ fairly declined the claim. 
Before we can consider a complaint about Europ not paying the claim because of Mr As 
wifes ill-health he first needs to make a claim to Europ on that basis so it has the opportunity 
to ask for evidence and assess that claim. Theres no evidence hes already done so. The 
only message Europ received from Mr A through its claims portal was on 23 June 2020, 
which said (airline) cancelled the flights to (location) - we booked accommodation with 
(airline) and wish to claim for the flights and accommodation. Mr As complaint form to us 
said the trip cancellation was because the airline cancelled his flight. 
If when Mr A makes a claim about his wifes ill-health the parties cant agree then Mr A can 
complain to Europ and ultimately make a separate complaint to us on that issue. I note his 
wife is insured on a separate policy with Europ so she would need to make a separate claim 
for her costs as Mr As policy is for him only. 
As to Europs service, Ive seen the email Mr A sent to the airline on 27 July 2020 which he 
says is very relevant. The message said I took out your travel insurance and claimed for the 
accommodation I booked via your website but you have not re-imbursed me for the hotel. 
You cancelled the flights so you are responsible. Mr A says he never had a reply to that 
email or other messages he sent or phone calls he made. But that email to the airline isnt 
evidence that he complained to Europ about its service. And although Mr A says he sent 
other messages about its service he doesnt have any evidence to support that and Europ 
hasnt received them. 
If Mr A wants to pursue a complaint about Europs service he will need to complain to Europ, 
to its contact details, keeping evidence of that complaint. If he is unsure which is the correct 
contact for Europ he can ask our investigator if he wishes to. If he and Europ cant agree he 
can make a separate complaint to us. Its fair for me to tell Mr A that even if we thought 
Europ hadnt given reasonable service that doesnt mean we would think it should pay the 
claim as they are two different issues.
My decision is that Europ did fairly and reasonably decline the claim Mr A made. Ill explain 
why.No travel insurance policy gives cover for every situation. Its up to an insurer what risks it 
wants to cover. The terms and conditions of the policy set out the contract of insurance and 
details of cover.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say:
Section A: Cancellation and Curtailment
What is covered:
The insurer will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits, for your 
proportion of the cancellation costs, or curtailment costs which you have paid or you 
are contractually obliged to pay and which you cannot recover from any source, if it is 
necessary and unavoidable to cancel or cut short your trip as a result of:
a. Death, serious injury or illness during the period of insurance of:
 You, or A person you are travelling with, or
 A relative, or
 A close business associate who lives in your country of residence, or
 A friend or relative who lives abroad with whom you were staying.
b. You, or the person you are travelling with:
 Being required in your country of residence for jury service or as a witness in
a court of law, or
 Being places under compulsory quarantine, or
 Being required to present yourself to the police, as a result of your, or their
home or usual place of business in your country of residence suffering a
burglary within seven days before the start of your trip
 Suffering accidental damage to your, or their home that renders the home
uninhabitable, within seven days before the start of your trip.
 Being made redundant, providing you qualify for redundancy payment under
the current redundancy legislation
 Being posted overseas or receiving emergency requirements of duty in the
Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services.
The reason Mr A gave for his trip cancellation in the claim he made - the trip was cancelled 
due to the airline cancelling the flight - isnt one of the above reasons that the policy covers. 
In addition, under the cancellation and curtailment section there is an exclusion for:
Any claims arising directly or indirectly from the cancellation or curtailment of travel
arrangements, in any way caused by or contributed by any order or recommendation
issued by a government, public or local authority. This includes but is not limited to,
orders or recommendations issued by any civil or federal aviation authority.
The trip was cancelled after 17 March 2020, the date the FCDO advised against non 
essential travel, and after the 23 March 2020, the date British government announced 
restrictions on movement due to the pandemic.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr As claim for 
cancellation. I think a combination of factors - the spread of covid-19, FCDO advice and 
government restrictions both in the UK and abroad- are all likely to have impacted to some 
degree on the cancellation of the holiday. They arent covered by the policy. Mr A now says 
cancellation was also due to his wifes illness but, as Ive said, he needs to make a claim to 
Europ on that basis for it to assess.I understand Mr As trip was cancelled through no fault of his own, But the reason he gave in 
his claim submission isnt in the list of insured reasons under the policy. In addition I think its 
likely the above exclusion would apply to the circumstances of the claim anyway.
I dont think the claim Mr A made for cancellation of the trip due to the airline cancelling the 
flight is covered under the policy terms and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
on which I could fairly ask Europ to accept that claim. I find that Europ fairly and reasonably 
declined that claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman