DRN-1733667
The complaint
C, a limited company, applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with Aldermore Bank Plc. A valuation 
was carried out, but the application later lapsed as Aldermore hadnt received all the 
information the underwriting team had requested.
The complaint has been brought to us by Mr and Mrs K in their capacity as the directors of 
C. Any reference to Mr and/or Mrs K in this decision should be taken in that context where 
appropriate. 
What happened
C made an enquiry to Aldermore on 23 March 2018 and a decision in priniciple was given on 
26 March. The decision in principle listed the information that would be needed, and said 
there would be a £3,275 non-refundable valuation fee. The £30,457.70 arrangement fee 
would be added to the £1.2m (approximiately) advance. The advance was due to be secured 
against a portfolio of five rental properties.
The valuation fee was paid, with the valuations instructed on 20 April. At that stage the initial 
assessment had been successful, but some information was still outstanding from C before 
the underwriting team could complete their full assessment of the application. Due to issues 
obtaining access to the properties the valuations werent carried out until 22 May. At that 
point the underwriting team were still awaiting the information they needed from C. 
There were emails back and forth to chase things up, with some information coming in which 
led to further information being needed as the underwriting team had some affordability 
concerns (if there were any rental void periods).
On 20 September C was asked for confirmation from its accountant that the tax positions of 
C, and Mr and Mrs K, were complete and up to date. The underwriters also asked for copies 
of Mr and Mrs Ks last 12 months bank statements evidencing how they meet their day to 
day living expenses. Chase ups were sent for the information, but as it wasnt received the 
application was marked as not proceeding.
On 2 January 2019 Mr K emailed Aldermore to ask for a progress update. A reply was sent 
the same day saying the application had expired as the information that had been requested 
in September 2018 hadnt been received.
Mr K provided a bank statement to Aldermore, and a reply was sent on 9 January saying 
that because the bank statement provided showed the account being overdrawn it wouldnt 
give any comfort around the affordability to cover the mortgage payments in the event of 
void periods.
Mr and Mrs K asked Aldermore to refund the valuation fee as the decision to not grant the 
mortgage wasnt based on that, and because a refund wasnt issued a complaint was raised. 
C also complained that the adviser was requesting documents for his own purposes, rather 
than at the request of the underwriting team.
Aldermore rejected the complaint saying all the requests for information were from the 
underwriting team, and that the valuation fee had been passed to the surveyor that 
undertook the valuations. It said as those valuations had been carried out then no refund 
was due.
Our investigator didnt think Aldermore had done anything wrong. C didnt agree and so the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
C has said that it had provided all the information that had been asked for, and some of the 
requests were not from the underwriting team. Im not sure why C believes the adviser was 
requesting information for his own purposes, or why it thinks the adviser would be interested 
in putting time in requesting information that wasnt needed. But in any event C is wrong. All 
the information that was requested by the adviser was information that was needed by the 
underwriting team so it could assess Cs application for lending. The adviser had no reason 
to request information that the underwriting team didnt need, and I can see no evidence that 
happened. Just because C didnt think the underwriting team needed the information doesnt 
make that so.
Theres also nothing to support Cs claim that all the information had already been received 
because if that was the case then the underwriting team, and the adviser, wouldnt have 
spent time chasing it up with C and Cs accountant. I would also have expected  if it was 
the case that the information had already been provided  that C and/or Cs accountant 
would have said that in reply to one of the numerous emails Aldermore sent chasing the 
information. It may be C provided the original information that had been asked for. But 
because that original information didnt allow the underwriting team to decide it was safe to 
lend C the £1.2m it had asked for then further information was requested to support the 
application. Thats the nature of underwriting; the underwriting team have to react to what 
they receive, and request further information as they deem fit.
Once Mr and Mrs K provided a copy of their bank statement in January 2019 it became 
apparent the underwriting team wouldnt be comfortable lending £1.2m to C as Aldermore 
had clear concerns about the ongoing affordability. For that reason the application couldnt 
be taken forward.
C paid a valuation fee so Aldermore could assess if the properties put forward were suitable 
security for this mortgage. The valuations were carried out in May 2018 and so that money 
was spent. The decision in principle was clear that the valuation fee was non-refundable, 
and thats completely normal in the mortgage industry. The surveyors needed to be paid as 
they did their job when they undertook the valuations of the properties. As Aldermore paid 
the surveyors then it no longer has the valuation fee to refund to C. Theres no grounds for 
Aldermore to request a refund from the surveyors, and it would be highly inequitable for me 
to order Aldermore to refund the valuation fee to C as Aldermore would then be out of pocket 
when there was no error on its part. The potential loss of non-refundable fees is a risk that is 
taken when an applicaton for credit is made in the event the application is turned down, or 
doesnt proceed for other reasons.Having considered everything, Im satisfied there are no grounds for me to order Aldermore 
to refund the valuation fee to C.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman