DRN-3736429
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the Mortgage Current Account (MCA) that is attached to the 
mortgage on his Barclays Bank UK PLC mortgage account.
Mr M disputes the amount outstanding and says Barclays has refused to provide 
transactional documentation relating to the contested amount.
To settle the complaint Mr M would like Barclays to stop the threat of repossession of his 
property, and to pay him compensation for the financial loss and emotional distress hes 
been caused.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letters dated 19 July 2022 and 1 September 2022 . All parties have 
copies of those letter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr M being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, in 2008 Mr M took out a mortgage with Barclays, through its residential lending 
division, The Woolwich. The mortgage was originally in the joint names of Mr M and his 
partner, Mrs L, but I am very sorry to note that Mrs L passed away in November 2014. Since 
then the mortgage and MCA have been in the sole name of Mr M.
The MCA was included as a feature of the mortgage. The MCA is an overdraft facility, which 
works like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, the overdraft limit on the MCA increases 
by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls rebalancing.  This can be spent by the 
borrower, through the mortgage current account. But its not intended to be an additional 
regular income stream for the borrower; nor should it be used to make the mortgage 
repayments. On a joint account, either borrower can use the MCA, independent of the other.
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Customers can pay money into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit. If there is a 
credit balance, interest accruing on that balance can, if the customer requests it, be offset 
against the mortgage interest. But the MCA in this case isnt in credit and so it operates as 
an overdraft facility with debit interest accruing on the outstanding balance.
The overdraft also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage 
account is repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage 
is repaid sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property). 
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. Interest is currently charged on the overdraft 
balance at Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%, except where the mortgage is a specific 
offset mortgages, where interest is charged at the offset mortgage rate. (Mr Ms mortgage is 
not such a mortgage and so the interest rate is Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%.)
Barclays notes show that there was a request for a cheque book and card on the account in 
April 2009. Another cheque book was requested in January 2012. In July 2014 Mrs L asked 
Barclays if the MCA reserve could be increased, but it could not.
In 2021 Mr M requested statements for the MCA. Barclays sent him statements from 2015 
onwards. However, Barclays wasnt able to send earlier statements, as it hadnt retained 
these.
After letters were went in May, June and October 2021 about the overdrawn MCA, in 
November 2021 Barclays terminated use of the MCA and demanded repayment of the 
balance (around £98,000). I am told that possession proceedings have been issued by the 
bank, because the MCA hasnt been repaid.
Mr M raised a complaint with our service that Barclays hadnt been able to provide evidence 
of transactions on the MCA before 2015. He also wasnt happy about the information that 
had been provided, saying that it didnt show what the transactions were for. Mr M was also 
concerned that the MCA had been capped and that Barclays was demanding repayment in 
full.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied that Barclays wasnt required to retain records for more than six 
years, and so didnt think the bank had done anything wrong in not retaining transaction 
details from the start of the use of the MCA. 
The investigator didnt think the MCA balance was incorrect, looking at the statements from 
2015 onwards.
The investigator also thought that Barclays was entitled to cancel the MCA facility and 
demand repayment, in line with the terms and conditions. She was satisfied Barclays had 
offered Mr M reasonable forbearance to come to an arrangement to repay the MCA. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that, 
because Barclays used cheque books for payments in the past, the balance on the account 
must be fraudulent. 
Mr M also argued that the Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) require Barclays to preserve all 
relevant documents. He says that Barclays alleged breach of the CPR and the banks 
commencement of proceedings has breached Financial Conduct Authority principles.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr M disputes the balance on his MCA, and hes unhappy 
that Barclays hasnt been able to provide him with historic records of the account from before 
2015 so he can verify what was spent on the account.Its reasonable for Barclays to have a retention policy in place in line with its data protection 
obligations. This is standard industry practice, and generally records are only retained for six 
years. Barclays provided Mr M with details of the account from 2015, but I can see Mr M had 
to chase the bank to provide this information.
I can see from Barclays contact notes that cheque books were requested on the MCA. As I 
said above, the MCA can be operated by either or both joint account holders. Barclays role 
is to administer the account in line with the terms and conditions and customers instructions 
(whether those instructions are by phone, in a branch or by writing a cheque). Barclays role 
is not to manage the account or the spending on it for Mr M. 
Mr M acknowledges that he used some of the MCA. He claims, however, that the cheque 
transactions on the account must be fraudulent. But I think another possibility is that Mrs L 
used the MCA as well (as she was entitled to do, independent of Mr M). The annual 
mortgage statements would have shown the amount being spent on the MCA, as well as the 
monthly MCA statements that Barclays would have sent. I know Mr M says he didnt receive 
these, but I think its unlikely that, since 2008, every statement sent out separately for the 
mortgage and MCA went astray.
Mr M says that he was recently told by someone at Barclays that they could see all the 
transactions on the MCA. If that is the case, then Barclays should provide this information to 
Mr M. But Barclays isnt under any obligation to analyse the transaction history or provide 
anything other than the account records. 
We dont provide an auditing service, and its not part of my role to examine every 
transaction on the account from inception to date. If Mr M wants the account audited, he is 
free to do this himself at his own expense. If the audit should reveal errors attributable to 
Barclays that have resulted in any detriment to Mr M, he would be free to raise another 
complaint about this, and include the cost of the audit in any redress he claims.
I can appreciate that it is very distressing for Mr M that Barclays has started possession 
action. Ive noted what Mr M has said about the CPR and Barclays obligation to retain 
records. However, the CPR relates to proceedings in the County Court, and those rules dont 
apply to complaints made to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The enforcement action is in line with the account terms and conditions, after Mr M was 
given sufficient notice of the need to repay the balance. Im satisfied Barclays has tried to 
engage with Mr M about repayment of the outstanding overdraft. Possession action is a last 
resort. Where a debt is legitimately owed to a business, the Financial Ombudsman Service 
would not generally interfere in the lenders right to enforce repayment of the debt through 
the courts. 
However, after considering everything Mr M and Barclays have said, I dont think the bank 
has done anything wrong. 
I sincerely hope Mr M is able to resolve this matter with Barclays. If Mr M doesnt accept this 
final decision, it wont be legally binding on him or Barclays and he will be free to raise in 
court any of the arguments hes made with us about why he disputes the MCA balance. It 
might be helpful for Mr M to take some legal advice about this, or to speak to Citizens Advice 
or Shelter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman