DRN-3219137
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under his home insurance 
policy because he didnt have cover for accidental damage.
What happened
Mr B had home insurance with AXA and in July 2021 he made a claim for a collapsed drain 
underneath his house. He had called in a drainage expert to look at a blockage from the 
cloakroom and was told a drain had collapsed underneath the house. 
AXA told Mr B his policy would only cover damage to underground service pipes and cables 
providing services to or from the home under the additional Accidental Damage cover, which 
he didnt have. Mr B said the problem wasnt the result of an accident and that his expert had 
confirmed corners were cut when the drains were put in, meaning they were unable to 
withstand usage over time. Mr B also said he was concerned there was ground movement 
and that his house would suffer structural damage if the drains werent repaired. 
Declining the claim, AXA told Mr B that any defective workmanship or materials wouldnt be 
covered. It also said it would be up to him to get the drains repaired to prevent any structural 
damage to his property because if he failed to do so and this resulted in ground movement, it 
wouldnt be covered as he would have failed to maintain his home. 
Mr B complained to AXA. He didnt agree the damage was accidental. He also said he didnt 
know the policy didnt provide cover for underground pipes and that he should have been 
told about this when he took out the policy.
AXA maintained Mr B didnt have the necessary cover in place and so he complained to this 
service. He said he didnt understand why he needed cover for accidental damage. He said 
he had asked AXA for some information about the cover in the insurance documents but had 
never received this. He explained he bought the policy via an aggregator site and doesnt 
think the definitions of accidental damage fit with the idea of a collapsed drain, which would 
seem to be more in line with subsidence. He said the fact the policy didnt cover 
underground drains as standard was not highlighted on the policy documents or stated on 
the aggregator site. 
AXA said it was clear at the quotation stage that accidental damage cover would need to be 
added as extra and it provided screen shots of what Mr B would have seen. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She accepted Mr B would have 
seen accidental damage cover included cover for damage to underground pipes if hed 
clicked on the option. But she said it wasnt enough that the information could only be found 
if Mr B had happened to click on the accidental damage option. She explained that most 
insurance policies provide cover for underground pipes and that when a policy doesnt 
provide this cover, as this is significant or unusual, it should be highlighted to the customer.
She thought that Mr B would likely have wanted cover for underground pipes and had he 
known it wasnt included he would probably have looked at the alternative policies on the 
market, which would have provided the cover for a similar price. Recommending the 
complaint should be upheld, our investigator said AXA should reconsider the claim as if Mr B 
had cover for accidental damage.
AXA has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It has argued it was 
clear the cover needed to be selected to cover drains, pipes and cables and that its 
competitors werent offering accidental damage to drains as standard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not uncommon for policies to refer to the cause of damage to underground pipes as 
accidental damage and so, although Mr B has argued the cause of the damage wasnt 
accidental, Im satisfied the accidental damage section of the policy is the cover thats most 
likely to apply.
 
I accept its clear in the policy schedule that the policy doesnt include cover for accidental 
damage. And within the policy wording it states the following only applies if you buy 
accidental damageaccidental damage to cables, drain inspection covers and underground 
drains, pipes or tanks providing services to or from the home and for which you are 
responsible. But the website Mr B used didnt highlight the fact there was no cover for 
underground pipes as standard and this would only have been apparent if hed had clicked 
on the accidental damage option. So Im not satisfied it was made sufficiently clear.
Im satisfied the fact the policy didnt provide cover for underground drains and pipes is 
unusual and significant because most policies do provide this cover as standard. AXA has 
argued its competitors arent offering accidental damage to drains as standard, but it hasnt 
produced any evidence to support this and, in any event, Im not persuaded this would mean 
AXA didnt need to highlight it. 
I also think its likely Mr B wanted cover for underground drains and would have probably 
taken out one of the other available policies had he known there was no cover included in 
this policy he was about to buy. So, I dont think its fair the claim was declined because Mr B 
didnt have cover for accidental damage and I think it should reconsider the claim on the 
basis he did have accidental damage cover under his policy. 
AXA didnt undertake its own inspection because it declined the claim based on the fact 
there was no cover for accidental damage. But Mr Bs own expert commented that the 
damage was due to poor workmanship and AXA has said that, even if Mr B had taken 
out cover for accidental damage, the claim would fail on that basis. The policy excludes 
loss or damage caused by or arising from faulty workmanship, defective design or use of 
defective materials. If, when reconsidering the claim, it relies on this exclusion, it will be for 
AXA to show it applies. The comments Mr Bs expert made regarding the quality of the 
workmanship mean AXA might want to look into this further, but I would expect it to properly 
investigate the damage itself before declining the claim on that basis. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to reconsider the claim as if Mr B 
had cover for accidental damage since the start of the policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman