DRN-3257539
The complaint
Mr S complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund several payments 
he made to a third-party company under the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme.   
What happened
In 2000, Mr S asked NatWest to refund between 23 to 24 payments to a third-party company 
- who I will now refer to as Company R. These payments had been made from his bank 
account since 2017. 
In its final response to Mr S complaint, NatWest said it needed more information from 
Company R. Unhappy with this Mr S referred his complaint to this service. 
NatWest made an offer of £100 to settle the complaint. Mr S refused saying he wanted all 
the payments returned before he considers any compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. In summary they found: 
- The Direct Debit Guarantee scheme protects a consumer where there has been an 
error. Mr S loan agreement with Company R shows an amount which is consistent 
with the figure debited from Mr S NatWest account
- As the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes, and as it appears Company R was taking the correct contractual payment, 
Mr S claim was not suitable for this scheme. So an error had not been made with the 
direct debit payments
Mr S disagreed with this. He has provided a letter which he says shows Company R was 
debiting the wrong amount. He has also made the following points: 
- He cant recall the actual contract or signing it. But if he did sign it, he would have 
assumed the payment amount on it was correct. This was done online, and he didnt 
read it from top to bottom
- The payment amount didnt stick out as only one figure was different, and it was 
discrepant by only £50. Also, Mr S had lots of payments going out of his NatWest 
account  so he didnt notice anything was wrong
- He only realised after his NatWest account closed as this prompted him to review his 
payments
- As Company R debited the wrong amount an error has been made and the terms of 
the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme should apply  
The matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. I know this will disappoint him, 
so Ill explain why. 
The Direct Debit Guarantee scheme, details of which can be found at 
https://www.directdebit.co.uk/DirectDebitExplained/Pages/DirectDebitGuarantee.aspx say: 
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare 
event that there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a 
payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be 
used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.......
..If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your 
bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount 
paid from your bank or building society
So, the key question I need to answer is whether an error has been made  specifically, as 
Mr S asserts, the wrong amount was taken. I have seen a copy of the credit agreement 
between Mr S and Company R for the loan. Amongst other things it sets out the amount to 
be borrowed, the regular repayment amounts, and I note it has been electronically signed by 
Mr S. 
Mr S says he did this online, so I have no reason to doubt the authenticity of the agreement. 
The agreement says there will be 60 payments due for £765.26  with the first payment 
being due on 23 June 2017. 
NatWest has given me statements for Mr S account.  On them I can see payments of 
£765.26 being made on the 23 of each month starting June 2017. This corresponds with the 
credit agreement. 
Mr S letter which he says was sent to him by Company R in June 2017 shows payments of 
£715.26 will be debited from his account. I note the reference number on this letter 
corresponds with that on the credit agreement. This means I have two documents which 
show two different amounts of repayments for the loan Mr S took out with Company R. 
I cant be sure with whats happened with the letter Mr S has given us and why there is this 
discrepancy. But, on balance, I dont find an error has been made. Thats because I must put 
more weight on what the credit agreement says. Thats because this is the legal document 
Mr S signed at the point of sale, which amongst other things, sets out the key features of the 
loan. Its also a document Mr S should have read properly before entering into the contract. I 
also think the payment amount is sufficiently prominent. 
So as the amount on the loan agreement is what Mr S was contractually obligated to pay, 
and as it was sufficiently drawn to his attention at the point of sale, Im satisfied no error has 
been made by Company R in collecting the payments using direct debit.  
I note Mr S has explained why he didnt notice this discrepancy earlier, and I can understand 
why he makes these observations. But it isnt enough for me to conclude an error was made 
in the payment of his direct debits. This means I dont think NatWest should refund him the 
transactions under the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme. Mr S should take this matter up with Company R if he still feels he has paid more than he 
ought to have. 
As I dont uphold this complaint, NatWest doesnt have to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman