DRN-3359059
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated him unfairly and prevented him from 
accessing his banking facility due to his disability. He says hes been subjected to 
discrimination.
What happened
Mr C needed to reset his online banking details and update his address, mobile number and
email address. However, he was told, that in order to reset his online banking he would need
to be sent a one-time password (OTP). But as Mr Cs mobile number wasnt up to date
Lloyds couldnt do this. And in this circumstance, when Mr C cant access online banking,
but needed to update personal details, such as his phone number and address, a higher
level of security verification is required. As such he was told he could either contact Lloyds
by phone or visit his local branch ensuring he has the relevant identification.
However, Mr C was unhappy with the solutions Lloyds offered as he has Autism Spectrum
Disorder and finds it difficult to process information over the phone. As such, Mr C wanted to
email the information Lloyds required. But Lloyds said this wasnt possible as changing
personal details, when an account needs to be reset, requires a higher level of security and
it had no other processes in place to assist Mr C with this. However, they did say Mr C could
always ask a representative to discuss the matter over the phone on his behalf but Mr C
would need to be present to give consent.
Lloyds have also said prior to this issue arising, Mr C hadnt discussed his disability with it
and as such it hadnt received his permission to record it on its systems.
Mr C remined unhappy, so he bought the complaint to our service. However, after referring
the complaint to our service Lloyds said they had re-investigated Mr Cs complaint and
offered further options to help address the issue.
It said it needed to change Mr Cs address and telephone number, obtain his consent to
record his disability on its systems and then ideally it would like to discuss ways to assist and
support Mr C going forward.
It said it can accept a change of telephone number and address via a form, but in order to
utilise this option, it must have a signature from the customer on record. Unfortunately, it
does not hold a signature for Mr C on file. Meaning this option couldnt be utilised. So, Lloyds
said it left it only two options. Mr C could provide verified documents from a solicitor or GP,
including proof of identity and proof of address. Then Mr C would be able to update his
address and telephone number. Then he could attempt to rest his online banking himself, as
the OTP would be sent to his new phone (although Lloyds did express it couldnt guarantee
it would work). Another option would be for Lloyds to arrange an appointment for Mr C with
an advisor at a time which suits him, ensuring everything was done in one meeting, also
capturing signature and ideas on how best it can support him.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He felt
the options Lloyds had offered were reasonable. Mr C disagreed, he said, getting verified
documents would result in him being out of pocket and having an appointment would mean
him attending branch, which would impact his health. As such he asked for the complaint to
be passed to me to consider.
On 25 February 2022 I issued my provisional findings. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im required to take into account  amongst other things  relevant law and regulations. In
this complaint Mr C feels Lloyds failed in its duty to make reasonable adjustments under the
Equality Act 2010. So, Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this
complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on
whats fair and reasonable. If Mr C wants a decision on whether Lloyds has breached the
Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court.
There are two issues to this complaint. Firstly, Mr C has to reset his online banking details.
However, as his personal details, such as his phone number and address have changed, Mr
C is unable to do this the usual way. As such, these details need to be updated first. This
could usually be done online, but as Mr Cs online banking needs to be reset, he cant do
this. In these unique circumstances, I can understand why Lloyds needs to satisfy a higher
security verification, after all this is to ensure Mr Cs account is not put at risk. Two options
were presented to Mr C to combat this issue, either go into branch or contact Lloyds via
phone. Both of these options were unsuitable for Mr C as he says both would impact his
mental health. And no other options were explored at this stage. This caused Mr C to
become anxious and he was left unable to use his account.
Given the circumstances, I would expect Lloyds to consider making a reasonable adjustment
here, as I think its clear that Mr C is prevented from using his account and this issue arouse
in September 2020 and has still not been resolved. Ive noted that this is a legal obligation 
though in law Lloyds is only required to make adjustments which are reasonable, and which
dont fundamentally alter the nature of its service. Thats relevant law and Ive taken it into
account.
In July 2021, whilst the complaint was being investigated by our service, Lloyds provided
some alternative options to Mr C. It said if Mr C was able to provide verified documentation
form a solicitor and or his GP, it would be able to update his password and address. And,
theoretically a OTP could be sent to his new phone number to reset his account. As
explained above, I totally accept that Lloyds needs to satisfy a higher security verification in
these circumstances, and I feel the option presented to Mr C is a reasonable and
proportionate measure and removes the barriers Mr C is concerned about.
I also note that Lloyds has said another option presented to customers who are in this
position is to complete a form to request personal details to be change. However, in order to
do this, it would require a signature on file from Mr C, which Lloyds havent previously
obtained. However, from reviewing the contact notes it has provided, I am satisfied prior to
September 2020 Lloyds were unaware of Mr Cs disability. As such, I dont expect it to have
discussed this option and offered this as a reasonable adjustment (and have obtained a
signature) if it was unaware.
Subsequently, Lloyds also offered to arrange Mr C a private appointment with an advisor at
a time that suits him. Which would mean it could resolve all the issues with this account at
once, obtain a signature to prevent issues occurring like this again in the future and make it
easier for Mr C, and understand how it can support him further. And while Mr C is unhappy
with this option, I dont think it is unreasonable. I say that because, it would help Lloyds
establish what support Mr C requires to prevent further distress going forward. However, if
Mr C is unhappy with this, he still has the option of obtaining verified documentation.While I am pleased Lloyds re-investigated Mr Cs complaints and presented alternative
options available and explained what measures it has in place to make reasonable
adjustments, it did still take Lloyds nine months to offer Mr C the options of verified
documentation, a private appointment, and to explain the potential of requesting an address
change by form. During this time, this issue Mr C faced continued. And I think it is
reasonable to conclude that the degree of upset and frustration he has experienced for the
duration this has gone on for could have been prevented, especially given his vulnerable
circumstances. As such I feel he warrants some compensation.
I acknowledge why Mr C says he feels Lloyds have discriminated against him, and why he is
frustrated with the barriers that were in place to him using his banking facilities. But having
looked at all the evidence I am satisfied Lloyds have offered an option which removes a
large proportion of the barriers Mr C faced. While I accept Mr Cs preferred option would be
to provide the information required via email, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to
decline that option, as it is not something it offers due to its security processes. In place to
protect its customers.
Therefore, my provisional decision is that Lloyds could have offered the options it presented
to our service to Mr C much sooner. Because it didnt, Mr C has experienced distress, and
frustration for not being able to use his account. Therefore, Lloyds should pay Mr C £300 in
recognition of this.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Lloyds Bank Place should pay Mr C £300 for the distress and
inconvenience it has caused.
Mr C and Lloyds had until 11 March 2022 to respond to my provisional findings. However, 
both parties responded early. Mr C accepted my provisionally findings but asked that he 
could provide his bank details for another account he holds (not with Lloyds) for the payment 
to be paid to. Lloyds also accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my provisional findings remain the same.
Putting things right
I require Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.  
However, Lloyds should pay the compensation into an account of Mr Cs choice. Mr C will 
provide the details of the account he wishes the compensation to be credited to and our 
service will pass these details onto Lloyds.
My final decision
My provisional decision is that Lloyds Bank Place should pay Mr C £300 for the distress and
inconvenience it has causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman