DRN-1627598
The complaint
Mr L complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited wont pay out on a claim 
under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr L took his dog to his vets saying he was constipated. Mr Ls vet sent a claim 
to Red Sands and diagnosed the condition as a hernia.
Red Sands turned down the claim, explaining Mr Ls dog had been seen by a vet in 
March 2018 where a hernia had been diagnosed in the same place as the one being claimed 
for now. Red Sands also said the notes showed Mr L chose not to go ahead with the claim at 
that time, and the policy is time-limited meaning it covers conditions for 365 days. Because 
the condition was first noticed in March 2018, Mr L was claiming outside of the 365 days 
when he submitted this new claim in July 2019. Red Sands added theyd need to place 
exclusions on Mr Ls policy for all hernias, and any claims in the region where the hernia 
occurred.
Mr L complained about this, saying he didnt claim in March 2018 so this shouldnt matter. 
Red Sands replied to the complaint and in summary explained the claims decision theyd 
reached was correct.
Unhappy with this Mr L asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, but said 
it isnt about whether Mr L made a claim in March 2018 or not, but whether its covered by 
the policy terms. And, having considered them, she felt Mr Ls claim wasnt.
Mr L didnt accept this. He said in March 2018 the vet was talking about a different condition 
so would like this looked at again. And in response to our investigator saying the vet had 
recorded it was the same condition in March 2018 as in July 2019, Mr L said he had no 
control over what the vet said. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain I need to carefully consider the terms of the policy Mr L took out 
to see if Red Sands should be paying out on his claim. If the policy terms say they wouldnt 
pay, then its unlikely Id order them to pay out. And, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I 
think Red Sands have acted fairly.
Mr Ls policy is a time limited policy meaning for any condition hes got up to 365 days to 
claim for a condition thats come up (subject to other conditions). This information is 
explained in two places  the insurance product information document and the full policy 
documents. Ive looked at both of these, and in the first document on page one it explains on 
three separate occasions theres a 365-day limit to claim for conditions. This is also 
explained in the full policy booklet on page three.
Ive looked carefully at these pieces of information, and I think theyre sufficiently clear to 
have made Mr L aware of the 365-day time limit on his policy.
Ive also noted when Mr L renewed his insurance in October 2018, which is the relevant 
policy year for the claim in July 2019, he was asked a number of questions. One of those 
was whether hed taken his pet to the vets for anything other than routine vaccinations. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest Mr L said he had  and if he had let Red Sands know, then 
they may have let him know about the time limit for claiming. I say that because this limit 
didnt expire until March 2019.
Mr L though has argued the conditions arent the same  but Ive had a look at the notes 
recorded by the vet and Im afraid I cant agree.
On 21 March 2018 the vet has recorded Mr Ls dog had a hernia and that the dog will need 
surgery. Two days later, the vet had recorded Mr L wanted to cancel the operation for now 
as he wanted more time to think.
On 8 July 2019 the vet has recorded Mr Ls dog has a hernia and will need surgery.
 
Mr L has said he cant control what the vets write. Thats true, he cant. But generally wed 
expect this to be accurate information, and say its reasonable to rely on it unless theres 
evidence to the contrary. Ive not seen any contradictory evidence. And Ive also noted Mr L 
said, when first asking us to look into his case, his dog had been to the vets in 2018 and the 
vet said it was a hernia.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied the condition Mr L has claimed for in July 
2019 is the same as the one first noted in March 2018. And Im satisfied Red Sands have 
turned down the claim fairly under the policy terms.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman