DRN-1611945
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim for a 
replacement window on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
Background
The glass in Mr S drivers car door was smashed in an attempted theft. Admiral moved the 
car to secure storage and asked its glass repair technicians to replace the broken glass. 
Mr S told the technicians he wanted the replaced window to be from the manufacturer rather 
than a standard replacement. The technicians told Mr S they would have to order the glass 
from the manufacturer. And the technicians eventually replaced the glass.
Mr S was unhappy about many aspects of Admirals service. Amongst other things he said 
the technicians had damaged his car, including marking his driver's seat. Admiral 
acknowledged that not everything had gone as well as it would like. So it paid Mr S £100 to 
address his distress and inconvenience because of that. It also paid Mr S £5 to reimburse 
the cost of phone calls. It maintained it hadnt caused any damage to the car. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill, said it would pay half the costs of repairing the car seat as well as a 
contribution towards other repairs coming to around £484 in total. 
Mr S didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our  
investigators looked into it. He didn't think Admiral had dealt with Mr S fairly. In particular he 
said Admiral should pay the full cost of the repairs to the seat. But otherwise the investigator 
thought Admiral had already done enough to address Mr S concerns. 
Admiral didn't agree with our investigator's recommendation so the complaint's been passed 
to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it.
 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made many detailed points. I've considered everything 
hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding 
issues following our investigators assessment of the complaint.
I've seen there was an initial delay in the technicians completing the glass repair. And during 
that time Mr S paid for a hire car. But it seems the delay was caused because the 
technicians were waiting for the manufacturers glass to arrive. And had Mr S accepted a 
standard glass repair then those delays wouldn't have happened. So I dont think all of the 
delay was because of the actions of Admiral or its agents. Also when the technicians 
realised there would be a further delay, it fitted a standard window to Mr S car and said it 
would swap that over once the manufacturers glass arrived. I know Mr S wasn't happy with 
that approach. But I think it was a reasonable temporary solution, which would allow Mr S to 
use his car until the technicians could fit the manufacturers glass. But I understand Mr S 
wasn't happy to drive the car until the manufacturers glass arrived. However, that was his 
decision alone. Its also worth noting that Mr S policy doesn't entitle him to a courtesy car 
when his claim is only for glass replacement. So I don't think Admiral needed to reimburse 
Mr S for his hire car costs while he was waiting for the glass repair to be completed. 
Once the repair was finished Mr S said his car had suffered further damage. An independent 
engineer inspected Mr S car. But he didnt think the damage Mr S was referring to was 
consistent with the work done to replace the glass. Mr S provided Admiral with some images 
of his car taken before the glass was repaired. The independent engineer acknowledged that 
those images didn't show damage to the seat. But he said he couldn't find any damage 
consistency between the technicians work to replace the glass and the damage to the car. 
So Admiral doesn't believe its responsible for the costs of repairing the seat. But as a 
gesture of goodwill it paid Mr S 50% of those costs. But I don't think that's fair.
The engineer agreed the images Mr S provided dont show the damage to the car seat 
before the car was picked up for repair. And theres still glass in the car in the photos; so Im 
satisfied they were taken shortly after the window was broken and before Admiral collected 
Mr S car to store it prior to repairing it. I accept the engineers point that the work the 
technicians did to repair Mr S car shouldnt have caused damage to the car seat. But its 
worth noting that Mr S car was initially recovered by another of Admirals agents, held in 
storage, repaired and then delivered back to Mr S by other recovery agents. And Mr S car 
didn't have a damaged seat before those things happened. But it did have a damaged seat 
once the car was returned to him. So I think a fair conclusion is that one of Admirals agents 
caused the damage to the car seat. It follows that I think it's reasonable to instruct Admiral to 
pay Mr S the full cost of the seat repairs. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Admiral insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr S the remaining costs for the repairs to the seat that it didn't pay 
in its earlier goodwill gesture.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman