DRN-2704241
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the policy in November 1993.
Mr and Mrs S paid a monthly amount of £27.80 for the policy. This covered Mr S only and
would have paid out a monthly benefit amount of £400. If Mr S was too ill to work or made
involuntarily redundant  the policy would have paid out for up to 36 months on the accident
and sickness element of the policy, or for up to 12 months on the unemployment element of
the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 
2021 and explained that I agreed with the outcome reached by our adjudicator, but I 
provided some further clarification and gave Mr and Mrs S and Santander an opportunity to 
respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
Santander hasnt been able to confirm whether the PPI was taken alongside a mortgage or
not. But the comments made by Mr and Mrs S, suggests the policy was likely taken during a
meeting at the same time as they applied for a mortgage.
During the meeting, Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the policy was
optional. And it had to get their consent before it added the PPI to their account. Santander
says it would have done this. And Mr and Mrs S seem to accept that they agreed to take the
policy  their main concern is about the advice they received to take it.
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of
sale documentation. But as Mr and Mrs S accept that they chose to take the policy, I think
its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were aware they had a choice about buying the
PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Both parties agree that Santander would have advised Mr and Mrs S to take the policy. This
puts more responsibility on Santander  it means as well as giving Mr and Mrs S enough
information about the policy, it also had to check it was suitable for them. So, Ive considered
the case on the basis that advice was given and having done so, the policy appears to have
been right for them. Ill explain why below, but Ive mainly focused on Mr Ss circumstances
as he was the one covered by the PPI.
From the information available, Mr S was eligible for the policy and he doesnt seem to have
been affected by any of the terms which might have made it harder for him to claim, such as
having unusual employment circumstances.
Mr S told us he had a condition that caused him to have operations and to take time off of
work. But our adjudicator called Mr S during the investigation and asked him about a
reference he made to a having a pre-existing medical condition. Ive listened to the call and
Mr S repeats several times that he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition at the time of
sale  he said that any comment about this must have been in error. So, I think its likely the
medical condition Mr S has now mentioned began after the policy started, which means
Santander wasnt wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr S at the time of sale.
Mr S says he was entitled to six months full pay if he was off sick from work and that he
would have received six months notice if he was going to lose his job. In addition, Mr and
Mrs S say they had savings of around £10,000 that they could have used if necessary. And
they both had life and critical illness cover. I note that Mr S has also said that he doesnt
think the policy was suitable because the benefit period overlapped the period he would
have been entitled to sick pay.
Ive thought about this carefully, but I dont think what Mr S has said would have meant that
the policy wasnt suitable for them. I say this because the policy would have paid out in
addition to Mr Ss sick pay and for a much longer period  up to 36 months. Mr S could also
have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. And Mr S could have used the
additional money during the overlapping benefit period to prepare for the time when his sick
pay ended. I would add that there was a deferral period of three months, so a claim would
not be paid until after that time had passed  that means the overlapping period was only
three months.
The PPI would have enabled Mr and Mrs S to use their savings for any other financial
commitments they may have had at what could be a difficult time. And life and critical illness
cover provide different types of protection to PPI  neither would have helped Mr and Mrs S
to make their mortgage repayments if Mr S was too ill to work, unless he was critically ill. So,
I think Mr and Mrs S could have found the policy useful if Mr S was off sick from work long
term or lost his job.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S at the
time it was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs S all of the other information they needed  I
dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs S chose to take out
the cover when they didnt have to, so they seem to have wanted it.
Mr S has queried why the PPI continued until 2006 if the mortgage ended in 1999.
Santander has confirmed that the PPI was a standalone policy, so it could have been used
to protect mortgages elsewhere if not with Santander. So, Mr and Mrs S would have needed
to contact the insurer to cancel the policy if they no longer needed it.
Mr and Mrs S have also said they think the policy was unsuitable because it didnt pay out
when Mr S was made redundant in 2006  it was cancelled shortly after. Santander has no
record of Mr Ss claim, but if he is unhappy that a claim was declined, he would need to
approach the insurer to complain about this  I cant comment on how the insurer handled
the claim under this case as Mr and Mrs S has complained about Santander.But considering what Mr S has said, I think it might be helpful to explain that if Mr S took
voluntary redundancy, this might be the reason a claim would not succeed. Insurance is
designed to protect the unexpected, so it would be unusual for a policy to cover redundancy
if it was taken on a voluntary basis. In any case, I havent seen anything to suggest
Santanders advice to take the policy was unsuitable considering Mr Ss employment
circumstances at the time of sale. So, if Mr and Mrs S still think his claim should have been
handled differently then as Ive said above  he would need to contact the insurer about that.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Ss home.
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So,
considering everything, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs S and I dont
think they lost out because of anything Santander did wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S responded to my provisional decision and said they were unhappy Santander 
did not have evidence of the claim Mr S says he attempted to make on the policy. Mr and 
Mrs S raised a number of other points, but they were all in relation to the attempted claim 
rather than the mis-sale complaint I have considered. As I explained above, any concerns 
relating to how an attempted claim was handled would need to be raised with the insurer, not 
Santander. 
Santander had no further comments. 
So, Ive not received any new evidence or information in relation to the mis-sale complaint. 
Because of this, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons. That means I dont think Mr and Mrs Ss PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman