DRN-2507114
The complaint
Mr M says that he repaid in full a loan from Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as 
Satsuma Loans. But he says Satsuma didnt mark it as paid on its system. Because of this, it 
was also reported to the credit reference agencies as still being open. Mr M says this led to 
him being unable to get further credit.  
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma provided to Mr M. Mr M borrowed 
£1,000 on 17 February 2017. He was due to make 12 monthly repayments to the loan. 
I understand that Mr M had problems making the loan repayments early in the term and 
these continued throughout 2018. I can see a default notice was issued in January 2019 and 
the account was transferred to a third-party collection agency some time after this. 
In February 2019 Mr M asked for a settlement amount for the loan. This was provided on 
14 February 2019 and was for £1,760.48. I can see that Mr M made a repayment of £200 
shortly after this but he didnt pay anything further. 
On 8 May 2019 Mr M received a further settlement value of £1,733.84. I understand he paid 
this via bank transfer. 
Satsuma didnt mark the loan as paid on its system. And it also reported that the loan was 
still open to some credit reference agencies. Mr M noticed this in May 2020 and made a 
complaint about it. Satsuma agreed it had acted incorrectly and marked the loan as closed 
around a week after Mr M contacted it. It also contacted the credit reference agencies with 
correct information about the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that whilst it was clear Satsuma had 
made a mistake it wasnt certain that this had caused Mr M a financial loss. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that his complaint should be upheld 
due to Satsumas error. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Its clear that Satsuma has made a mistake here. It should have marked Mr Ms account as 
paid when he settled the loan in 2019 but it didnt do this. That said, when it was informed 
that the loan wasnt properly closed it put this right relatively quickly. So, there is nothing 
further to do in respect Mr Ms account, or the information Satsuma has provided about this 
to the credit reference agencies. 
Ive thought about whether Mr M should receive compensation for this mistake. In order to 
award financial compensation it needs to be shown that Mr M has suffered a loss. Mr M has 
said this has happened as he may have been refused other credit due to the incorrect 
information on his credit file. 
But any refusal of credit by a third party would be due this third partys lending criteria. I dont 
know what this lending criteria was, or if it played a part in any refusal of credit. And it is just 
as likely that other factors may have led to this. For example it could be that the earlier 
missed payments or the default were the cause of this. Or indeed some other information on 
Mr Ms credit file. 
So, I cant reasonably say that Satsumas error led to Mr M being turned down for further 
credit. And it follows that I cant reasonably say that Satsumas error caused Mr M a financial 
loss. So, I dont think its fair to award compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman