DRN-3300445
The complaint
Ms F complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has acted unfairly in 
relation to a buildings insurance claim.
Any reference to Ms F or RSA includes any respective representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Ms F holds an RSA buildings insurance policy.
In 2017, Ms F contacted RSA to report that present cracking in her home was 
worsening. She provided a letter from a structural engineer which said a continuous 
water leak from the neighbours property may have destabilised her foundations by 
eroding the underlying ground. 
RSA reviewed the damage and carried out investigations. Following monitoring 
Company D (a subsidence specialist) provided a report to RSA.
In August 2017 Ms F provided a letter from her handyman who said the water from 
the neighbours property was leading to her wall retaining moisture.
RSA reviewed the evidence and Company D report and said there was no ongoing or 
continued subsidence movement to the property. And the cracking wasnt consistent 
with subsidence movement. It concluded the damage reported was due to lateral 
movement  which wasnt covered. So, it declined the claim.
Ms F brought the complaint to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into 
what happened. She said the detailed distortion survey provided by RSA gave the 
most thorough overview of the cause of damage to the property. And she said it 
seemed most likely the cause of damage was not subsidence and instead lateral or 
historic movement  events simply not covered by the policy.
Ms F disagreed, saying RSA had failed to identify what the cause of the damage 
was. And therefore it couldnt fairly say if an insured event had taken place. She also 
said her neighbours insurer had accepted a claim.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind, saying RSA had carried 
out an appropriate investigation and provided evidence to support why the damage 
hadnt been caused by an insured peril. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
Ms F has mentioned a previous claim in 2013. As our investigator has highlighted, this has 
not formed part of the complaint Ive considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to demonstrate 
the claim is one covered by the policy. If the insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline 
a claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion more than likely applies. 
For an event to be covered under the subsidence peril, the damage in question would need 
to be caused by subsidence. Subsidence is damage caused to a property because of 
movement of the ground underneath the foundations. So, I have to consider, what is the 
most likely cause of the cracking and damage to Ms Fs property, in light of all the evidence. 
Or, at the very least, is the cause subsidence or any other insured peril under the policy.
RSAs considered the concerns raised by Ms F, and in its initial observations it said the most 
likely cause of damage was not subsidence as the pattern of cracking to the front of the 
house suggested the central cross wall had moved laterally away from the left portion of the 
home. It said this wall was inherently poorly restrained at first floor level owing to the nature 
of the design of the house with the first floor balcony located to front right side of the house.
However, following these observations RSA completed a distortion survey, which was made 
up of three types of survey looking at floor/ceiling levels, verticality, and brick course level. 
And it has provided a detailed technical report from 2019 that discussed its findings within 
these surveys. Ive included extracts of this below:
Following analysis of the results of the distortion survey, we are now able to confirm 
that the cause of damage is not due to continued or on-going subsidence movement. 
We believe that the original diagnosis of lateral movement is correct and recommend 
that the claim be declined.
It also went on to say:
Based on the results of the distortion survey as described above together with our 
initial assessment carried out last year we remain of the opinion that subsidence has 
not occurred to the front of the house. The cracking present is not consistent with 
subsidence movement and clearly no rotation has occurred as pivoting was noted 
about the main crack.
It is clear that some historic movement has taken place and we understand that the 
neighbour to the left has suffered from on-going subsidence to the rear of the house 
for some time. Whilst damage is present to the hardstanding to the rear of the house 
no appreciable physical damage was noted to the main house at the rear.
Given the detail and extent of the monitoring, I find this report persuasive.
Ms F has provided a letter from a structural engineer in 2017 which they say the damage 
may be due to the continuous water from the neighbours property. This letter isnt supported 
by any report, and in the commentary he mentioned further investigations would need to 
take place to show this. 
Ms F has also provided a letter from her handyman in which he describes her wall retaining 
moisture from the neighbours leak. Given the comparative lack of detail and no description 
to the extent of their own respective investigations, Im more persuaded by the evidence 
RSA has provided. As a result, Im satisfied RSA has fairly declined this claim and Im not 
asking it to do anything further.
Ms F has said RSA isnt able to fairly decline this claim as it hasnt established the cause of the damage for certain. Im satisfied the evidence it has provided points at the most likely 
cause  and ultimately that in any case, the cause is not likely subsidence or any other 
insured peril under the policy. Ms F has also mentioned her neighbours claim  I dont find 
this persuasive as I am considering the evidence and reports for her property.
My final decision
For all of the reasons above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman