DRN-3743921
The complaint
Mr P complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter Savings 
Bank didnt send him confirmation of a deposit.
What happened
Mr P says he opened the Charter account on 2 June 2022 and deposited £20,000 into the 
new account. He says he didnt receive confirmation that the money had been received and 
was concerned about the deposit. Mr P says he e-mailed Charter but without reply and 
couldnt get through to it when he telephoned it. He would like compensation for what took 
place.
Charter says Mr P opened the account on Thursday 2 June 2022 which was a bank holiday 
weekend. It says it e-mailed Mr P on 3 June 2022 and says it wrote to Mr P that day, but the 
letter wouldnt have left its office until earliest next working day on 6 June 2022. Charter says 
its records show the documents were generated and sent but doesnt have a record of either 
the letter or e-mail being returned. It says Mr P then used a different e-mail address to 
contact it and says it left a message for him on 10 June 2022. Charter says it is sorry that Mr 
P was unable to speak to it due to call wait times.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator looked 
at Charters records and thought the e-mails were sent on 3 June 2022. The investigator 
thought it wasnt Charters fault they were not received and thought the bank holiday 
weekend would have caused some delay in Mr P receiving the letter. The investigator didnt 
think Charter was responsible for the call wait times.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and in summary says he didnt receive the e-mails and says 
the call wait times are Charters responsibility. He would like Charter to provide evidence it 
sent the e-mails and questions the accuracy of the documents provided by it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
I have looked carefully at Charters records and can see it sent e-mails to Mr Ps e-mail 
address on 3 June 2022. I appreciate Mr P says he didnt receive them, but I cant fairly hold 
Charter responsible for that. I make clear to Mr P that I have no reason to conclude they 
were not sent or that the record of them is questionable. Im also satisfied that Charter sent 
Mr P a letter which was generated on 3 June 2022 but not sent until the earliest on 6 June 
2022 which was the first working day after the application. I dont think that delay was 
unreasonable and think that Mr P ought reasonably have realised that such a delay was 
inevitable having applied for the account on the first day of an extended bank holiday 
weekend.
I appreciate Mr P questions the evidence Charter has provided. But I have to conclude what 
I think on balance is more likely to have taken place taking into account all of the evidence. 
Having done so Im satisfied the documents were sent to Mr P by letter and e-mail and I 
cant fairly conclude they were not sent.
I agree with Mr P that call wait times are Charters responsibility. But I also think that it can 
be difficult for a business to anticipate call volumes, which depend on a number of variables. 
In any event I can see that Charter has apologised for Mr P being unable to speak with it 
when he called. I dont consider those call wait times justify compensation and dont consider 
them to be Mr Ps main complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that on balance Charter sent Mr P e-mails and a letter when he opened 
his account. I appreciate Mr P will have unanswered questions about where either 
correspondence went but those are questions this service cant answer. I find this now 
brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do to assist Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman