DRN-3637866
The complaint
Mr K complains that RateSetter, for which Metro Bank PLC is the owning company, is 
holding him liable for a loan in his name which he says he did not consent to.
For simplicity, I will refer to Metro Bank PLC as RateSetter in my decision.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In June 2017, a RateSetter loan in the sum of £3,800 was applied for in Mr Ks name.  This 
loan was auto approved on the same day and the funds of which were credited to Mr Ks 
current account the following day.  Mr K disputes this loan  his submissions can be 
summarised as follows:
Mr Ks former friend, whom I will refer to as M in in this decision, told him he was 
having issues with his bank account. 
Consequently, M asked Mr K if he could transfer £3,800 to his current account: 
£3,300 of which to be transferred to Ms cousin; and the remaining £500 to be kept 
by Mr K as he had been helping M out recently.
Mr K agreed to this and £3,800 was credited to his current account, which he says he 
believed came from M at the time.
Mr K then made payment transfers (amounting to £3,300) to an account he says he 
believed to be held by Ms cousin; and kept the remaining £500 as agreed.
In July 2017, Mr K noticed a direct debit that was collected from his current account, 
which promoted him to contact his bank and then RateSetter.  At which point he 
says he discovered the direct debit was payment towards a loan in his name in the 
sum of £3,800.
Mr Ks position is that M took out the loan in his name without his consent and knowledge.
Mr K explained the above to RateSetter.  It investigated the matter and decided to hold Mr K 
liable for the loan.  Mr K raised a complaint about this which he also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  Based on the evidence 
before her, she thought, on balance, that Mr K was not aware of the loan.  Therefore, she 
directed that RateSetter should write off the loan less £500 and update credit reference 
agencies accordingly; Mr K should repay RateSetter the £500 he had use of; and that he 
should not be held liable under the terms and conditions of the loan.
Mr K accepted the investigators findings, but RateSetter did not.  As an agreement could not 
be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Mr K has not been able to provide any evidence of his agreement with M.  Mr K says this is 
because the agreement was reached over a well-known social media platform which deletes 
chats after 24 hours.  Whilst I acknowledge the difficulty this causes, I have taken the 
following into account:  
Mr K has been consistent in his testimony to RateSetter and this Service.
Mr Ks version of events in terms of what he says happened is plausible.
Mr K contacted his bank and RateSetter as soon as he saw the direct debit collected 
from his account to pay towards the loan.
Based on RateSetters submissions, it appears as if it does not dispute the 
proposition that the loan was not taken out by Mr K.  Instead, RateSetter deems Mr K 
liable for the loan because of the agreement he reached with M  which RateSetter 
argues is a civil matter.  I should highlight that Mr K cannot be bound by the terms 
and conditions of the loan agreement if he did not consent to the loan being taken out 
in his name.
Notwithstanding the above point, the onus is on RateSetter to demonstrate that Mr K 
did not consent to the loan  something which, based on the evidence before me, I 
am not satisfied it has done.
Taking all the above points together, I am satisfied that Mr K did not consent to the loan 
being taken out in his name and therefore he cannot be bound by the underlying loan 
agreement.  Ultimately, I have not seen any satisfactory persuasive evidence disproving Mr 
Ks version of events.
I will now turn to considering whether Mr K had use of the loan funds.
Mr K has accepted that out of the £3,800, he had use of £500.  So, I think it would only be 
fair that he pays this amount back to RateSetter.  In relation to the remaining £3,300, I am 
not satisfied that Mr K had use of this amount. 
I say this because I have seen evidence from Mr Ks current account provider which 
confirms that Mr K transferred £3,300 in total to an account held in the same surname as 
Ms, but with a different initial.  So, this lends credence to Mr Ks testimony that M asked him 
to transfer £3,300 to his cousins account.  
To be clear, out of the £3,800 loan funds, I am satisfied that Mr K did not have use of 
£3,300, but he did in sum of £500  something which he accepts.  Therefore, I think it is only fair that he repays £500 to RateSetter; and that RateSetter does not pursue Mr K for the 
remaining £3,300.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct that Metro Bank PLC:
Close the loan agreement opened using Mr Ks personal details.
oAs Mr K did not enter into the loan agreement, he can neither be held liable 
under the terms and conditions of it, nor pursued for the £3,300 (see above).
Remove any information about the loan agreement from the information held with 
credit reference agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman