DRN-4104334
The complaint
Mr R complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited is responsible for damage to his car 
in connection with a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a diesel engined van, first registered in 
2011.
For the year from late September 2022, Mr R had the van insured on a comprehensive 
policy with Sabre.
In early October 2022, the van passed an MOT test with a recorded mileage of about 
119,000.
In mid-October 2022, Mr R reported to Sabre that there was some bodywork damage to the 
van. Sabre later appointed a repairer.
On about 17 January 2023, the repairer collected the van and delivered a courtesy car.
On about 18 January 2023, the repairer contacted Mr R to say the van wouldnt start and 
there was a smell of petrol.
On about 19 January 2023, a roadside assistance company confirmed that there was petrol 
in the fuel system. It drained the system at a cost of about £250.00.
On about 20 January 2023, the repairer returned the van to Mr R and collected the courtesy 
car.
On about 24 January 2023, Mr R complained that the repairer had been responsible for the 
mis-fuelling. 
Much of the complaint concerns the acts or omissions of the repairer. Insofar as I hold Sabre 
responsible for them, I may refer to them as acts or omissions of Sabre.
By two different versions of a final response dated early February 2023, Sabre turned down 
the complaint.
Mr R paid a garage to do further mechanical repairs to get the van back in use.
Mr R brought his complaint to us in late February 2023.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there 
was enough evidence to show that the repairer mis-fuelled the van.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Sabre sent his vehicle to a repairer with many negative reviews online.
He knows his vehicle, having owned it for a number of years. He didnt mis-fuel it.
He has provided the receipt and bank statement showing his final fuel purchase on 
Thursday 12 January 2023.
There were absolutely no issues regarding the vehicle.
The van had been driven approximately 15 miles after the final fuel and before the 
repairer collected it.
The repairer sent a driver to collect the van from his home address. The temperature 
was below freezing. The driver didnt contact him before driving off in the van.
After the 12-mile drive to the repairers workshop, the repairer didnt contact him 
about any problem starting or driving the van.
Mechanics have told him that it isnt possible to drive the van after it had been mis-
fuelled.
Whilst in the care of the repairer, there was unauthorised use of his vehicle, which 
has then been mis-fuelled. 
The repairers initial phone call raised his suspicions. Mis-fuelling wouldnt be the first 
thing a garage would check. 
The repairer returned his vehicle without the bodywork repaired. Sabre hasnt offered 
an alternative repairer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
12) Misfuelling
This policy does not provide cover for replacing parts that have been contaminated or 
damaged as a result of putting the incorrect fuel in your vehicle or failing to keep the 
correct amount of lubricant in your vehicle or loss or damage to the vehicle caused 
by an inappropriate type or grade of fuel being used.
So I dont consider that the policy covered mis-fuelling.
Ive seen a statement of insurance document dated September 2022. It includes the 
information that  in addition to the van - Mr R owned and drove another vehicle.
I havent seen enough evidence to show that Sabres choice of repairer was unfair to Mr R.
I accept that Mr R bought some diesel on 12 January 2023. 
From what he and Sabre have each said, the vans fuel tank was full or nearly full on 17 
January 2023. The repairer only needed to drive it for a few miles. Mr R hasnt shown us enough engineering evidence to show that if the van had already been 
mis-fuelled, it couldnt have been driven from his home to the repairer. The repairer later said 
that the van did not drive well. I find that consistent with mis-fuelling before the collection on 
17 January 2023.
I dont infer anything from the repairers lack of contact with Mr R on 17 January 2023.
When the van wouldnt start, the repairer suspected mis-fuelling and contacted Mr R on the 
morning of 18 January 2023. I dont consider that the repairer was too quick to smell petrol. 
Mr R hasnt provided enough evidence to support his claim that the repairer allowed 
unauthorised use of the van between the mornings of 17 and 18 January 2023. In any event, 
I find it unlikely that the repairer had any reason to put any fuel in the van.
So Im not persuaded that Sabre is responsible for the mis-fuelling. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Sabre to pay Mr R anything for the consequences of the mis-fuelling 
including the cost of draining the tank, the cost of subsequent mechanical repairs, the loss of 
use of the van, or his distress and inconvenience.
From what Mr R has said and from Sabres file, I find that Sabre and the repairer had 
expressed willingness to repair the October 2022 bodywork damage. So I dont consider it 
fair and reasonable to direct Sabre to appoint an alternative repairer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Sabre Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman