DRN-1592478
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) was negligent in the 
advice it gave him, which led to him being mis-sold a mortgage endowment policy on an 
interest-only mortgage. He said this was unsuitable for him.
What happened
Mr G told us that he took out a mortgage endowment policy in 1991. He said he went into 
branch and was given advice by a representative of Standard Life. He was told the policy 
would repay the mortgage and provide him with a lump sum payment too. 
Mr G said the endowment policy was originally intended to have a 23-year term, but that he 
surrendered it in 2009 as he needed the money. He then switched to a repayment mortgage. 
Standard Life has said that because the plan was sold more than seven years ago, it has no 
information about who sold it. And, for that reason, its unable to investigate a complaint 
about the advice given. 
Mr G noted that Standard Life has been able to give information about the policy, such as 
the date it was surrendered, the value of the policy and the account that the sum was paid 
to. But Standard Life says this information is from an old system and that it has no further 
information about the plan. It has provided screen shots to demonstrate that searching for Mr 
G and for his policy number doesn't provide any additional information. 
Neither party has been able to provide us with any documentation about the policy or the 
sale. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He said that as he had nothing to show how, 
when or where the endowment was sold, he couldn't investigate the mis-sale any further. 
But Mr G said that his recollections of the sale were very good and believes he shouldn't be 
at a disadvantage as a result of Standard Life disposing of documentation. So the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr G, I dont uphold his complaint  and 
Ill explain why.
While it hasn't been disputed that it was a Standard Life policy, the issue here is about the 
advice given that led to an interest-only mortgage and mortgage endowment policy being 
sold. And because it was a Standard Life policy, it has some  albeit very limited  
information about the surrender date and value of the policy.  But this doesn't mean that it 
was responsible for the advice given at the time of sale. There simply isn't enough information available to say who was responsible. Because of the 
amount of time that has passed, neither party has any evidence about the sale. This is 
understandable - I cant reasonably expect either party to have information about a sale that 
happened almost 20 years ago. So I cant safely say, based on what Ive seen, that the 
representative within the branch was acting on behalf of Standard Life. It follows that I cant 
reasonably hold Standard Life responsible for the advice given during the sale. And I note 
that it would be very difficult for Standard Life to prove that it wasn't responsible for the 
advice given. Our investigator pointed out that its generally quite difficult to prove a 
negative.
Given the above, I cant fairly hold Standard Life liable for the advice given that led to the 
interest-only mortgage and mortgage endowment policy been sold. And I dont have 
sufficient evidence to determine whether it was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Standard Life Assurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman