DRN-2636151
The complaint
In summary, Mr R is unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited accepted liability 
and settled a third party claim in respect of a motor accident he was involved in. In particular, 
he doesnt think it considered his version of events. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in a motor accident in February 2019. The third-partys representative 
said that Mr R was at fault for the accident. It provided a witness statement from the third- 
party. And it commenced court proceedings to recover losses from Mr R.  
Advantage said that it tried to settle the claim on a split liability basis. The third-party wasnt 
prepared to do that and issued court proceedings. Advantage didnt think it had enough 
evidence to defend the claim. It decided that Mr R was at fault and paid the third-party claim. 
In doing so, it said it relied on the witness statement the third-party representative had 
supplied. It didnt think it was economical to pursue the claim and would pay the figure the 
third-party representative had requested.
Mr R wasnt happy when Advantage told him of its decision. He said he turned right on a 
green filter when the third party came from the opposite direction. He maintained he wasnt 
responsible for the accident and thought that the third-party driver had been distracted which 
he said caused her to jump a red light, skid and collide into his car.  He braked to avoid the 
collision, but she caught his front drivers side bumper. And he wasnt happy with the 
solicitors instructed by Advantage.
Mr Rs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She didnt uphold his 
complaint and explained why she didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong in 
deciding to settle the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my findings which are set out below, I havent addressed every point or argument the 
parties have made. I mean no disrespect by not having done so, but in reaching my findings 
and conclusions in this case, I have focussed on the issues and evidence that I think are key 
for me to decide this case.  However, I want to reassure Mr R and Advantage that I have 
carefully thought about everything that they have said and the evidence they provided me 
with.
Section 2 of the general conditions of Mr Rs policy, provided Advantage with the authority to 
take over and conduct the defence or settlement any claim as it felt appropriate. But in doing 
so it still had to exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way. 
In considering the issue of liability, its not for me to determine who was responsible for the 
accident. That is a matter for the courts to decide. But I can consider if Advantage acted 
fairly in how it investigated the issue of liability and whether it reached a reasonable decision 
in respect of this, based on the available evidence. 
Liability
Looking at the available evidence I dont think it was unreasonable of Advantage to deal with 
the issue of liability in the way that it did. I say this because in addition to what Mr R told it 
about the accident, Advantage was provided with a witness statement from the third-party 
driver. She said that she was pulling away from some traffic lights when the accident 
happened. And she suggested that this was because Mr R had turned right on a red light 
rather than waiting for a filter to turn green. 
This was different from Mr Rs recollection of what happened. He said that the third-party 
driver was distracted by an animal in her car, which caused her to jump a red light and 
collide with his car as he was turning right under a green filter traffic light.
The difficulty in this case is that there are two differing accounts of what happened, without 
any independent witnesses or other corroborative evidence, to support or refute either 
account. 
I do understand that Mr R feels strongly that he wasnt at fault for the collision. But I dont 
think there is enough evidence to support his contention that it was the third-party driver who 
jumped the red light and was distracted by her dog. 
But there is information about the collision itself. It does appear and is accepted by Mr R, 
that he turned right at the traffic lights. This meant he had to cross the path of oncoming 
traffic including the third-party vehicle. So, I can see given all of this, that Advantage and its 
legal advisers may well have thought it would be difficult to defend the claim on a no-fault 
basis. And even if the claim had been settled on a split liability basis, I think its likely that this 
could still have affected Mr Rs no claim bonus and his insurance premiums.
As Ive said, Im not making any findings on liability, that isnt my role. But given what 
evidence is available I dont think based on the information Advantage had, and the 
investigation it carried out, that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in making that decision in 
respect of the issue of liability.  
In its response to Mr R, Advantage accepted that the incorrect information had been 
supplied to him. It offered him £50 compensation to recognise the lack of service. I think this 
is sufficient for the poor service Advantage provided, and I dont think it needs to do 
anymore.
My final decision
Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that if this hasnt already been paid to Mr R, then Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited should pay him £50 if he accepts my decision. If this has already been 
paid and accepted by Mr R, then it doesnt need to do anything else. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman