DRN-4058122
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Great Lakes Insurance SE. He isnt happy that it turned down 
part of his claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K made a claim under his pet insurance policy. His pet had become unwell and was short 
of breath and unfortunately passed away while receiving veterinary treatment. But when 
Great Lakes looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because if felt the claim 
stemmed from a pre-existing condition which wasnt covered under the policy. As Mr K 
wasnt happy about this he complained to Great Lakes and then this Service. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr K but eventually decided not to uphold the 
complaint. Although he sympathised with Mr K he didnt think Great Lakes had acted 
unreasonably in turning down the claim as it thought the condition was pre-existing.
As Mr K didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr K, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ks position and why he feels his claim should be met. He believes it 
cant be established for sure that his pets death was linked to a pre-existing medical 
condition. However, this Service decides cases on balance and his vet was asked by Great 
Lakes directly whether the respiratory arrest, that caused Mr Ks pet to be euthanized, was 
linked to the pets ongoing heart issue. And the veterinary practice said in response Yes - it 
is likely that the reason for his respiratory arrest was linked to his heart disease" and I find 
this persuasive. 
Given this it is difficult to say that Great Lakes has done something wrong in turning down 
the claim. It has got its own internal vet to look over the claim and they highlighted that 
Pleural effusion is often caused by heart disease. And so Great Lakes thought the 
respiratory arrest was most likely linked to Mr Ks pets heart disease. 
However, I note that Mr Ks vet has said in recent times that the pet presented with difficulty 
breathing and although pleural effusion was established shortly after admission they felt it 
was presumed that the presence of pleural effusion was of non-cardiac origin. Our 
investigator has asked the treating vet about their original statement, but they havent given 
a thorough explanation as to why they said, it is likely that the reason for his respiratory 
arrest was linked to his heart disease. So, although I note what the vet has said now it is 
difficult to step away from what Great Lakes was told by the vet originally.
Mr K accepted that his pets heart condition could have been detrimental to the efforts in 
resuscitation. And that he is aware that pleural effusion can happen for many different 
reasons with heart failure being one of them, but not the only one. While I accept this, and 
the treating vets recent comments, it is difficult to say that Great Lakes and its experts are 
wrong. I say this as the treating vet gave an early response to say that the arrest was linked 
to the ongoing heart disease.
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr K, I think Great Lakes has acted 
fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman