DRN-3829639
The complaint
Mrs P is a sole trader. Ill refer to Mrs Ps sole trader business as G.
Mrs P complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) caused delays when she arranged the sale 
of a car as per the terms and conditions of Gs hire agreement.
What happened
Mrs P acquired a car under a 60 month hire agreement with Lex in March 2018 on behalf of 
G. Under the agreement, Mrs P was required to make one advance payment of £274.64, 
followed by 59 monthly payments of £274.64. As part of the agreement, Mrs P was entitled 
to exercise a right to sell the car acting as Lexs agent, subject to conditions contained within 
the hire agreement.
In mid-March 2022, Mrs P contacted Lex and explained she was looking to sell the car. She 
asked Lex to send her a settlement amount and asked it to include any payments that had 
been deferred as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. She also asked if there was an 
outstanding VAT to be paid. 
Lex responded and explained the process Mrs P needed to follow if she was looking to sell 
the car. It also explained that the settlement value of the car was £12,006.67. This increased 
to £14,408 after VAT was applied. It said this amount didnt include the amount outstanding 
for the three month payment deferral which was taken during 2020 and asked Mrs P to 
contact it to obtain this figure or to pay it off.
Mrs P signed and returned the third-party declaration paperwork in late March 2022 as she 
had arranged to sell the car for £19,000. Lex acknowledged this and said it would generate 
an invoice within three to four days. Mrs P told Lex that G wasnt VAT registered and so she 
didnt think she needed to pay the VAT amount. Lex explained the VAT amount would still 
need to be paid regardless of whether G was VAT registered or not. Mrs P queried why she 
was told she wouldnt need to pay the VAT amount by Lex. Lex responded and said its letter 
said the amount payable excluded VAT and any arrears outstanding. It asked Mrs P to 
confirm whether she wanted to proceed with the sale of the car.
In April 2022, Lex contacted the third party purchaser and asked it to send the purchase 
proceeds. Following this, Mrs P complained. She said the process was difficult and 
frustrating, she was unhappy with the miscommunication and the delays in the process. She 
said it had been more than six weeks since she completed the sale documentation and there 
had been delays in the third party receiving the sale invoice and delays in the funds clearing.
Lex received the funds from the third party in early May 2022. The sales proceeds were 
credited to Mrs Ps account eight days later. Lex also issued its response to Mrs Ps 
complaint. It accepted it had provided poor service when Mrs P was trying to communicate 
with it, it was experiencing delays in arranging the sale of vehicles and it apologised for 
raising an invoice for the outstanding balance. As an apology and in recognition of the 
inconvenience Mrs P experienced, Lex offered to pay Mrs P £200. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs P referred her complaint to this service. She said she was insulted by 
the offer made by Lex and the process to sell the car affected her mental health as she 
feared for her future. She said she nearly lost the sale of the car due to Lexs incompetence 
and she said Lex lied and miscommunicated throughout the whole experience. She said she 
made two subject access requests which werent handled correctly and she believes the 
information she received from Lex is incomplete. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said she thought the offer Lex had made for 
the distress and inconvenience caused was fair in the circumstances. She said Mrs P would 
need to refer her complaint about the alleged missing information from the subject access 
request to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mrs P disagreed and said she had to call Lex daily to resolve the issue. She said it affected 
her mental health and she could have lost the sale of the car. 
As Mrs P disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Mrs P accepts she needs to contact the ICO to raise her complaint about the subject access 
request. And so, I havent considered this complaint point as part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.  
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs P has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
What I need to decide in this case is whether Lex acted unfairly or unreasonably after Mrs P 
told it she wanted to exercise her right to sell the car. Having done so, Ive come to broadly 
the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.  
As part of this contract, Lex provided Mrs P with the option to act as its agent and sell the car 
on its behalf. This process involves Mrs P sourcing a third party buyer, providing relevant 
paperwork to Lex and Lex liaising with the third party buyer to obtain the funds from the sale.
Mrs P told Lex she wanted to sell the car on 17 March 2022. Lex responded and provided 
Mrs P with the finance documents to enable her to act as its sales agent. It asked her to 
return these documents when all parties were ready to proceed with the sale. Mrs P returned 
these documents to Lex on 30 March 2022. 
Between 17 and 30 March 2022, I can see there was some communication between Lex and 
Mrs P about whether VAT and any payment holiday payments were included in the final 
balance payable. Lex replied promptly and explained VAT wasnt included and said the 
payment holiday rentals owed were not included in the price quoted. It provided Mrs P with 
details of how she could make the payment for the payment holiday rentals that were owing. 
Mrs P said Lex told her over the phone that she didnt need to pay VAT and that G wasnt 
VAT registered. However, Lex replied and confirmed she would still need to pay VAT 
regardless of whether G was VAT registered or not.
Having reviewed this correspondence, Im satisfied Lex didnt act unreasonably or unfairly 
between 17 and 30 March 2022, as it didnt cause any delays and answered Mrs Ps 
questions. In addition, even if Lex did tell Mrs P the settlement figure it had quoted did 
include VAT, Mrs P clarified this with Lex and it provided her with the correct information 
promptly on a number of occasions. In addition, the settlement letter Mrs P signed confirmed 
that the settlement figure didnt include VAT. And so, whilst Lex may have incorrectly 
provided Mrs P with information over the phone, this was corrected promptly and without 
delay. According to its process, once the finance documents are received, Lex would close the 
contract within 48 hours or if the final payment had been made under the contract, once the 
contractual term end date is reached. It said the purchaser would receive a sales invoice 
approximately three working days after the contract had closed.
Lex sent Mrs P an acknowledgement to say it had processed the third party declaration 
paperwork on 8 April 2022. This is a delay of around six days. Lex said it would generate an 
invoice within 72 to 96 hours. However, the invoice was generated sooner on 10 April 2022. 
Lex has accepted there were delays and said it had some backlogs in processing the 
documentation. Im satisfied that Lex should have processed the third party declaration 
paperwork sooner, as per its process.
Following this, I can see that Mrs P contacted Lex and said the third party hadnt received a 
copy of the sales invoice. However, Lex did send a copy of the invoice to the third party by 
email, it sent a further copy by post on 21 April 2022 and by email on 26 April 2022. 
Following this, Mrs P confirmed the third party had received the sales invoice in the post on 
26 April 2022. I cant see that Lex has caused any delays here as I can see it sent the sales 
invoices to the third party without delay after it was generated and it said this was sent to the 
email address provided to it by the third party. And so, I dont think it acted unfairly.
Lex received the funds for the sale on 3 May 2022. These funds were paid to Mrs P on       
11 May 2022. This process took around six working days. Lex doesnt confirm how long it 
will take to make a payment to Mrs P following clearance of funds. However, I dont consider 
six working days to be excessive given Lex likely needed to complete internal audit 
processes to locate and allocate the funds and then complete the transfer. Following this, on 
19 May 2022 a further payment was paid to Mrs P as a refund for the tax paid by G for the 
calendar year.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lex caused a slight delay whilst processing the third party 
declaration. So Ive gone on to consider what impact this has had upon Mrs P. 
Lex has already made an offer of £200 to reflect the service it provided Mrs P. Ive 
considered whether I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs P says the sales process was difficult and time consuming and she said she had to call 
Lex on a number of different occasions. She said the issue impacted her mental health as 
she could have lost the sale of the car and this caused worry and stress. 
Ive seen a copy of a call log that Mrs P has provided. This shows she contacted Lex three 
times on 18 March 2022, four times on 13 April 2022 and twice on 19 April 2022. Lex has 
apologised for the service during this time and explained the wait times depend on the 
volume of calls they received. It accepts it provided poor communication.  
I understand that in March 2022, Mrs P was calling Lex to try to obtain information about 
whether VAT and payment holiday rentals were included in the settlement amount. The call 
notes show she enquired about a payment holiday too. I can appreciate it was likely to have 
been frustrating for Mrs P to have to call Lex a couple of times about the VAT payment. And 
so, Im satisfied Mrs P was inconvenienced. 
In April 2022, Mrs P was calling to chase Lex about the sales invoice being sent to the third 
party. The calls Mrs P made were made after Lex had sent the sales invoice to the third 
party. I dont consider that Lex caused a delay during this period of time as it had already 
sent the invoices.
Overall, whilst I accept Mrs P was caused distress in thinking the sale may not proceed due 
to the delays, I dont hold Lex responsible for all of the delay. So having considered that Lex 
caused a delay of around six days and the impact of this on Mrs P, I think the amount Lex 
has already offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
Lex Autolease Ltd has already made an offer to pay Mrs P £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should pay Mrs P £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman