DRN-1445360
The complaint
Mr S says Nottingham Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Mr S paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see Mr S submitted a mortgage application on 10 October 2005, which didnt make any 
mention of PPI either way. He then applied for the policy separately around two weeks later 
using a form for mortgage PPI, where he chose what level of cover he wanted. He signed 
specifically for the policy and set up a direct debit to pay for it, separately to paying for the 
mortgage itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the mortgage. Ive not seen anything in 
the documentation that shouldve given Mr S the impression he had to apply for PPI. And 
Ive not seen any wider problems with Nottinghams sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence which shows that Mr S was misled or unfairly pressured into buying PPI here. So 
on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that Nottingham made Mr S aware he 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether Nottingham recommended the PPI to Mr S, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on Nottingham if it did recommend it  so to be fair to Mr S, Ive assumed it did. 
That means Nottingham had to check the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr S was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ss work benefits and offered him more 
comprehensive cover, especially for when his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his 
normal pay or ran out entirely. While Mr S had savings, its not clear how significant these 
were  and in any case, the PPI meant Mr S could effectively protect his savings and use 
them for other things. He also had other insurances such as life cover, but those policies 
covered different things to the PPI and Im afraid they werent relevant here. Lastly, 
I understand Mr S felt secure in his role, but accidents, illnesses and redundancies can and 
do happen even when things feel secure. Ultimately, this mortgage was a significant, long-
term commitment, and if Mr S fell behind on it he couldve lost his home. So it looks like the 
PPI couldve been useful for him in protecting his home and providing some peace of mind.
It is possible that the information Nottingham gave Mr S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr S chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the 
cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman