DRN-1946953
The complaint
Miss M is not happy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account without any warning 
leaving her without access to her savings. 
Shes also unhappy that her statements were available online when she was unable to 
access her account online due to her living abroad. 
What happened
Miss M needed to access her savings account and was unable to as she did not have online 
banking details. When she tried to contact Barclays on the telephone to arrange this she 
found that the 24-hour telephone line was not opening until 8am. 
Miss M subsequently discovered that her bank account had been closed for being dormant. 
Barclays told Miss M that they would reopen her account but did not provide a timescale for 
reopening. At the same time Miss M requested copies of her bank statements by email. 
Barclays advised that they were unable to send the statements by email since it was not 
their policy to do so.
Shortly after complaining to Barclays Miss M brought her complaint to this service. The 
investigator was able to work with Barclays to enable Miss M to access her account. I 
understand that Miss M now has access to her savings. 
Our investigator looked at the information he received about Miss Ms complaint and advised 
that Barclays had made an offer to resolve the complaint. The investigator explained that he 
thought that the offer was fair. Miss M disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold this complaint in part. I have detailed my reasoning 
below.
Barclays confirmed that it will identify any account as potentially dormant if it has had no 
customer-initiated transactions for 60 months. From 2014 to 2020 the only transactions on 
Miss Ms account was the interest being added by the bank which is why the account fell into 
dormancy. Barclays told our service that prior to making an account dormant it would notify a 
customer of its intention to make their account inactive. It would also give them an 
opportunity to use their account within an allocated period. Barclays have confirmed that 
their process is to send one automated letter to the customers address after 60 months of 
inactivity.
This letter was sent to Miss M on 18 November 2019. I note that Miss M says that she spoke 
to a customer services advisor who told her that Barclays usually send multiple letters 
notifying customers of the closure of an account. Unfortunately Barclays have been unable 
to find any record of this call. In the absence of this evidence I have thought carefully about 
what Barclays and Miss M have said here.
I think its likely, on balance, that even if Barclays had sent Miss M further letters regarding 
the account closure, there has been an issue with Miss M receiving correspondence from 
Barclays. I will come on to this point later. In any event Barclays policy is to send one letter 
prior to making an account dormant. 
I have seen a copy of the letter from Barclays to Miss M dated 18 November 2019. It states 
that the account will close on 14 February 2020 and provides information on how the 
customer can keep the account open. When the account remained inactive Barclays closed 
it. Miss M says she never received that letter. Barclays had no reason to think that Miss M 
did not receive the letter since their systems show that they had been sending Miss M 
account statements since account opening. I think it is reasonable for the bank to expect that 
their letters would be delivered where it was correctly addressed. 
I can see from correspondence between the parties in 2014 that Miss M was given the 
opportunity to set up online banking and was asked to contact Barclays to set this up given 
that she lived abroad. I can see no evidence that Miss M attempted to set up her online 
banking in the period from 2014 to 2020. I therefore cannot reasonably hold Barclays 
responsible for Miss M not having access to her online banking. 
Part of Miss Ms complaint is that she had to chase Barclays to get her statements sent to 
her by email. Barclays policy is not to send statements by email as it doesnt consider email 
a sufficiently secure method of communication. The statements were finally sent by email on 
this occasion only to assist Miss M and is not their usual practice. This is a policy decision 
that Im satisfied Barclays is entitled to make for itself. I dont consider the fact that other 
banks are willing to send statements by email means Barclays was acting unfairly. 
I can see that there was some delay in sending Miss Ms PIN Sentry device. I have seen 
evidence that shows Barclays faced some challenges in sourcing a device to send by 
recorded delivery. The current climate made this more difficult since the normal process for 
sending the devices to customers is by non-recorded post from Barclays central mailing 
centre in Leicester. There was no functionality to have the devices sent abroad or by 
recorded delivery from Leicester and so Barclays were trying to source a device to head 
office to allow it to be sent abroad by recorded delivery. Whilst I appreciate that this does not 
help Miss M it shows that some of the delays were due to circumstances outside Barclays 
control and I can see that Barclays were trying to assist Miss M. 
Miss M complained that she was unable to access her savings when she needed to. 
Barclays did offer to provide Miss M with an emergency fund to assist her if she was facing 
financial difficulties. Miss M did not take Barclays up on their offer. 
Miss M has complained that in the time she requested access to her savings account in 
March 2020 to when she could access her savings in July 2020 the relative value of the 
savings decreased significantly due to the exchange rate. As explained above I dont believe 
that Barclays did anything wrong in marking Miss Ms account as dormant, and Miss M was 
given the opportunity to set up her online banking when her account was active.
On that basis I dont believe I can reasonably hold Barclays responsible for the decrease in 
relative value of Miss Ms savings. This was a consequence of the account being left to 
become dormant, combined with the impact of Covid-19 and Miss Ms location, rather than 
because of any mishandling by Barclays. The evidence that I have seen shows that the bank 
attempted to assist Miss M in reopening the account, sending the statements, and providing 
her with access to her savings. Miss M has raised concerns with the interest applied to her account over the years. The 
interest is shown on the bank statements but Barclays explained that there are times when 
the interest rate changes during the statement period and therefore the interest rate shown 
on the statement is not necessarily an accurate reflection of the interest for that whole 
period. The rate printed on the statement is the current interest rate at the time of printing the 
statement. Barclays say, unless we say otherwise any interest rates we show are gross 
annual rates. I am satisfied that the interest rates are correct. 
Miss M was told that her bank statements had been sent to her by post at the beginning of 
April but she had not received them. There appears to be a further attempt to send the 
statements at the end of April but again these were not received by Miss M. Similarly Miss M 
was told that the devices required to access her account online had been sent but later 
found out that they had not been sent. 
Putting things right
The service provided by Barclays here falls short of what I would have expected. Barclays 
acknowledged this and have offered £300 to reflect the shortcomings in their service. Having 
reviewed the complaint I think that the offer is fair. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Miss M £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman