DRN-3426710
The complaint
Mr C complains about the actions of The Currency Cloud Limited (TCC) following him 
sending money to one of their customers as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr C was sadly the victim of a scam. He believed he was making an investment with a 
genuine company Ill refer to as G. But unfortunately, G were being impersonated, so rather 
than dealing with the genuine company he was in contact with scammers. 
Mr C made a series of payments from his own bank T to fund his investment. The 
payments took place between 20 December 2019 and 10 January 2020 and totalled 
£85,000.
Mr C had been told that he could expect his first interest payment from his investment in 
March 2020. When this didnt arrive, he tried to contact G and found their email address was 
no longer available. Mr C liaised with T and concluded hed been the victim of a scam. I 
understand this was also reported to the relevant authorities.
TCC use another bank B for their accounts. I understand T informed B of the problem with 
the payments and that this was passed on to TCC. Mr C also instructed a solicitor who wrote 
to TCC several times asking questions and requesting reimbursement. 
Ultimately TCC declined to refund any money. They also said they couldnt share the 
information that had been requested by Mr Cs solicitor. In a broad summary they said theyd 
done their due diligence when opening the account in question. And that by the time they 
were put on notice that Mr Cs payments had been made as the result of a scam, the funds 
had already been moved and there was nothing left that they could return. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. She didnt think TCC could reasonably be held liable for Mr Cs loss. Mr C 
disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for very similar 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to make clear that I accept Mr C has been the victim of a cruel and 
sophisticated scam. Ive seen evidence of the checks he conducted prior to making his 
investment and I dont think he has acted negligently. But being the victim of a scam doesnt 
automatically entitle someone to a refund from the firm that received the funds. It would only 
be fair for me to direct TCC to do so if I think they reasonably should have prevented (or 
failed to recover) all or part of Mr Cs loss. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully considered TCCs actions when opening the account and 
monitoring its operation. I agree with our Investigator and am satisfied TCC didnt miss an 
opportunity to prevent Mr Cs loss when opening the account. From the information TCC 
have provided I can see they completed identification checks in line with their regulatory 
obligations and I dont think that there was anything at the time that reasonably couldve 
alerted them to the fact that the account they were opening would later be used to 
misappropriate funds. 
And taking into consideration the nature of the account and its expected use I dont 
necessarily think the activity prior to Mr Cs funds being spent was sufficiently suspicious 
where I can fairly say it ought to have given TCC enough concerns about fraud where I 
would have expected them to have intervened. 
The payments Mr C sent, as described above, went to TCCs account which is held with 
another bank B. The named beneficiary on Mr Cs payment instructions was Currency 
Cloud [G]. With G being the full initials of the cloned firm. So excluding the addition of Gs 
initials, there was no mismatch between the named beneficiary and the accountholder, as 
the account with B was held by TCC. 
TCC would then have assigned those funds to their own customers account using the 
details (account number) provided as the payment reference. Mr C acknowledges that the 
relevant regulations dont oblige TCC to check that the intended beneficiary or any 
supplementary information provided matches the named accountholder. But he still says that 
multiple large payments, marked in this way ought to have prompted intervention from TCC. 
Firstly, the payments were intended for an account held with TCC, and so having Currency 
Cloud as part of the named beneficiary isnt something that I would have expected to have 
caused concern (even if there were an expectation or obligation on TCC to check this when 
the payment arrived). And the supplementary initials of G as referred to above could have 
related to almost anything, I dont think its reasonable to expect TCC to have known from 
this the intention behind the payment or have linked this to the cloned firm. 
Mr C has highlighted that there were two warnings published online about G in October 
2019. One of these appears on the website of an international company who seek to provide 
solutions to the worlds energy issues. And the other appeared on the website of an 
international bank based outside the UK. Mr C has highlighted various regulations which he 
says oblige TCC to be alert to and act on information published by other financial institutions. 
He says this means TCC ought to have flagged, risk assessed and acted upon payments 
(such as his) that were intended for G.
Ive considered this but I dont agree. I accept that TCC are obliged to conduct ongoing due 
diligence in the course of running their business. And that they have various and ongoing 
obligations to be alert to fraud, scams, misappropriation of funds and or money laundering. 
But even in that context, whilst the name provided on the payments included the three initials 
associated with G, I still dont think it is a reasonable expectation for TCC to have been pro-
actively monitoring their accounts in the way Mr C expects. 
The starting point here is that unless there is something unusual or suspicious in the account 
activity (or a notification of fraud or similar), I wouldnt expect TCC to become involved in 
their customers operation of the account. Once suspicions are raised, then I would expect TCC to look more closely and take into account things such as any mismatch between the 
intended beneficiary and the named accountholder. But I dont agree the level of monitoring 
that Mr C has described is a reasonable expectation or a requirement of the regulations. 
As Ive mentioned above, Im not persuaded that Mr Cs payments (and the way in which 
they subsequently left the account) would have appeared suspicious to TCC to the extent 
that they ought to have prevented them leaving the account and done more. This is of 
course in the context of the account involved and its expected and intended use. 
Mr Cs solicitor asked various questions that TCC said they couldnt respond to in relation to 
the details of the checks they conduct and information about their account holder. TCC 
declined to share further information citing data privacy reasons. I dont think that was 
unreasonable. The general regulatory requirements on firms opening accounts are freely 
available in the public domain. It seems what Mr C was seeking was more detailed 
information about TCCs fraud prevention systems and internal processes. This isnt 
something I would expect them to share as in the wrong hands, it could assist fraudsters. 
And Im satisfied in these circumstances there isnt any basis upon which I can tell TCC to 
share information about its accountholder directly with Mr C or his solicitor. However, Im 
confident that TCC would provide all relevant information to the police if they were to request 
it to assist with their investigation. 
Im also satisfied that all of Mr Cs funds were already paid away before TCC were on notice 
that there was a problem with the account involved. As such I dont think anything about 
TCCs response to Mr C or his representative impacted on whether there was any money to 
be returned. 
Mr C also disputes that TCC responded within an appropriate time limit to his complaint. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules require that the respondent of a complaint of this 
nature responds within eight weeks. Here, I can see that TCC responded appropriately to 
the queries made by Mr Cs representative. I dont believe there was poor service to the 
extent that a compensatory award is appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr C lost such a significant sum to a scam. And I can quite 
understand why he wants to do everything he can to try to recover his loss. But it would only 
be fair for me to tell TCC they need to do more if they reasonably failed to prevent Mr Cs 
loss or a part of it. And as I dont think they did, Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman