DRN-3350762
The complaint
Ms H complains against Halifax Share Dealing Limited, referred to as the business. 
 
Shes unhappy that she couldnt access her Stocks and Shares ISA. 
What happened
On 8 April 2020, Ms H made a withdrawal of £20,000 from her ISA. The withdrawal went 
ahead without issue because her bank details matched with the business. However, 
subsequently it came to light that her address wasnt the most recent address the business 
had on file, and this triggered an internal warning. Consequently, from 9 April 2020 her 
account was restricted. 
The business emailed Ms H immediately asking her to call back, as it was unable to discuss 
the issues via email or web chat for security reasons, so that it could verify the details. 
 
Ms H maintains that she called back, numerous times, but couldnt get through to the 
business. And whilst the restrictions were in place, she couldnt access her account either. 
This proved distressing because shed lost her job in March 2020 and had to borrow money 
from friends and family.  
Ms H says that she couldnt get through to the business until 17 June 2020, after which her 
restrictions were lifted.  
I note that between March and June 2020, separate to the restriction imposed on Ms Hs 
account, the business also stopped all external transfers, including ISA transfers, and this 
was due to the impact of Covid-19. 
On 8 June 2020, the business received a transfer request from a third-party business (also 
referred to as the transferee) on behalf of Ms H, but the request couldnt be actioned owing 
to pre-existing restrictions on her account.
The business accepts that the request shouldve been processed on 17 June 2020 when the 
restrictions were lifted on the account. But despite Ms H speaking to the business several 
times that day, the request wasnt correctly re-logged, and the processing didnt start until 29 
June 2020. The in-specie transfer was completed on 10 July 2020.   
The business upheld the complaint and offered Ms H £100 for the delayed transfer and £60 
towards the cost of the phone calls. Unhappy with the offer Ms H referred her complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
She cant blame the business for restricting Ms Hs account on 9 April 2020, because 
the address didnt match. 
The business is obliged to comply with anti-money laundering regulations, and thats 
why it restricted Ms Hs account, so that it could verify her contact details.  
Ms H spoke to the business for the first time on 17 June 2020, following which the 
account restrictions were lifted, and she could access her account again. 
Although the business stopped all transfers between March and June 2020, this 
didnt impact Ms Hs instructions to transfer  which the business received on 8 June 
2020 when it had already resumed transfers  because her account was still 
restricted.   
The business accepts that it shouldve processed the request on 17 June 2020 when 
the restrictions were lifted. However, despite Ms H speaking to the business (several 
times) on that date, it didnt correctly re-log her instructions. Unfortunately, it didnt 
start the transfer process until 29 June 2020, and the transfer completed on 10 July 
2020. 
The above notwithstanding, the transfer request couldnt have gone ahead until 17 
June 2020, even if the business tried to action the request sooner. 
Because Ms H requested an in-specie transfer  which means she chose to remain 
invested whilst her holdings were transferred  she hasnt suffered a financial loss.    
A stocks and shares ISA transfer usually take 30 days. In this instance, the business 
received the request on 8 June 2020 and the transfer completed on 10 July 2020 
taking a total of 32 days. However, it couldnt process the request sooner whilst the 
restriction was in place. 
In the circumstances the business offer to pay Ms H £160 compensation  
comprised of £100 for the delay and £60 towards the cost of the phone calls  is 
broadly fair and reasonable.  
Ms H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and made the following key points: 
The investigator didnt consider that the business was unreachable on the phone 
between April and July, which is key to this complaint. 
The transferee is witness to this because it too couldnt get through to the business. 
She questioned whether the investigator had got any feedback from the transferee?
She called almost daily during this period racking up a huge phone bill. Thats why 
shes not willing to accept the £160 offered by the business.  
The business simply didnt try and call her. 
Why has the investigator decided that an out of date address means that shes in the 
wrong? 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
Shes happy to accept that it was difficult getting through to the business on the 
phone, therefore she doesnt need to contact the transferee. 
The business didnt contact Ms H because it had emailed her asking her to get in 
touch. 
The business had long waiting times due to covid-19 and the start of the pandemic. 
She hasnt concluded that Ms H was in the wrong or had acted unreasonably 
because of an old address. Her role is to consider the actions of the business. In this 
instance shes unable to say it did anything wrong by seeking to verify her details.    
Ms H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She maintains thats he was out of pocket and the business behaved unreasonably. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms H says, I think the redress 
offered by the business is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Ms Hs strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Ms H and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
As the business has upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress and 
whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im mindful that Ms H believes the 
business behaved unreasonably and therefore shes entitled to much more compensation. 
I understand that Ms H withdrew a substantial sum of money from her account with the 
business on 8 April 2020. Based on what she says I understand that shed lost her job in 
March 2020 and therefore needed funds. Unless Ive misunderstood the point, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the money she withdrew wasnt enough for her, either until she got 
another job and/or until she had access to her account on 17 June 2020. 
I understand that following the successful withdrawal of her funds, restrictions were placed 
on Ms Hs account on 9 April 2020, because of an issue with her contact address. In other 
words, it seems that it didnt have her most recent address on file, which Ms H wouldve 
been obliged to provide.   
Under the general anti-money laundering regulations, Im satisfied that the business was 
obliged to restrict access to Ms Hs account, until it could verify her details. In the 
circumstances I cant say that the business behaved unreasonably. 
Im aware that the business emailed Ms H asking her to call back, which I think is 
reasonable. In the circumstances I cant blame the business for not calling her and/or 
discussing sensitive matters over email or web chat. The business had to do what was 
necessary in order cover itself and Ms H in case there was an issue with who was accessing 
her account. 
Im not suggesting the issue with the address was Ms Hs fault or that she didnt call back. 
Im satisfied that she did call the business, numerous times, but simply couldnt get through 
despite waiting for long periods of time. Whilst I appreciate this was hugely frustrating for Ms 
H, I must also acknowledge that this was at the height of the Covid-19 global pandemic and shortly after the government introduced lockdown measures requiring most people to work 
from home. 
So, given the likely challenges faced by the business at the time  such as a limited work 
force, remote and varied working hours  on balance Im unable to safely say that the 
business has behaved unreasonably by not being able to deal with her calls sooner. In the 
circumstances I think a payment of £60 towards the cost of the calls made by Ms H is 
broadly fair and reasonable.   
I understand Ms H finally got through to the business  via the phone as instructed  on 17 
June 2020, when her details were verified, and the restrictions lifted immediately. 
I understand that prior to this point, on 8 June 2020  fed up with not being able to get 
through to the business  Ms H instructed a third-party business to transfer out her holdings 
in specie. But given the pre-existing restrictions, the business wouldnt have been able to 
action the request before 17 June 2020 when the restriction was lifted. 
Im mindful however that on 17 June 2020, the business failed to re-log the transfer request 
and so it wasnt actioned until 29 June 2020 and completed on 10 July 2020. I note the 
business accepts that this was an error, which prevented her request from being completed 
sooner. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think £100 compensation offered by the 
business for the delay is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Based on what the investigator says, I understand that in theory  if there were no 
restrictions  the in-specie transfer process wouldve taken 32 days, from the date of the 
original request on 8 June 2020 to when it was completed on 10 July 2020. And it wouldve 
taken roughly 23 days if the business had begun the process on 17 June 2020 but for the 
error. So, in the circumstances I think £100 compensation for the error and/or delay is 
broadly fair and reasonable. 
I also note that this was an in-specie transfer, so Im unable to safely say that Ms H has 
suffered a financial loss, and she had an opportunity to trade if she wanted to but didnt. I 
understand that Ms H wants £1,000 a month compensation  for a period of four months  
but theres simply no justification for awarding that level of compensation.     
The above notwithstanding, I should also make clear that a business is entitled, in the 
reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to limit or suspend external 
transfers. In the circumstances I cant say the business has done anything wrong by doing 
so, to combat the effects of Covid-19. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs. 
So, despite what Ms H says about the delays, the date of her request and the restriction 
wouldve prevented her from transferring out sooner in any event, regardless of the business 
stopping any transfers until June 2020. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms H says, I think £160 
compensation  comprised of £100 for the error/delay and £60 towards the cost of the phone 
calls  is broadly fair and reasonable.    
I appreciate Ms H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give Ms H what she wants. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer by Halifax Share Dealing Limited to pay Ms H £160 compensation is broadly 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman