DRN-2423458
The complaint
Mr M complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) was late to deposit funds into his 
share dealing account.
What happened
Mr M opened his share dealing account with HSDL in February 2014. 
On 17 June 2019, Mr M called HSDL to enquire about making a transfer of £125,000 from 
his nominated bank account to his share dealings account. Mr M asked HSDL for its account 
details so that he could go to his bank later that day to instruct the transfer. HSDL provided 
these details and explained that the funds would be available for him to invest within 48 
hours of it receiving the transfer amount. 
Mr M instructed his bank to make the transfer and the funds were credited to HSDLs Client 
Money Account by way of a Clearing House Automated Payment System (CHAPS) transfer 
at around 5pm that evening. 
Mr M called HSDL on 19 June 2019 to complain that his funds had not yet cleared to his 
share dealings account. 
The funds were made available for trading in Mr Ms account on 20 June 2019. 
Mr M was able to invest his funds on this day but did so at an additional cost of around 
£1,760.
HSDL acknowledged that the transfer took longer than expected and that an internal error in 
processing the payment had contributed to the timescale. It apologised for the delay and 
offered £100 for the inconvenience caused. Mr M rejected this offer as he felt that, had his 
funds been made available to him within the 48 hours promised, he could have purchased 
the shares at a lower price. So he ought to be refunded the difference between the price he 
paid on 20 June and the price available on 19 June 2019.
An investigator at our service looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, 
she said:
Whilst there isnt a set timeframe for authorising transfer payments in HSDLs terms 
and conditions, it generally aims for a 48 hours turnaround time.
Due to funds not being received until 5pm, HSDLs cash team didnt start processing 
the transfer payment until the following day.  
As the funds were made available 48 hours after HSDL had begun processing the 
transfer payment, she felt it had completed this in a reasonable time. 
There was a temporary delay caused by HSDL categorising the payment as a 
different type of transfer, but this was soon cleared up after a few hours.
She felt the offer of £100 was fair as it recognised that his expectations hadnt been 
met around the 48-hour timeframe.
However, she didnt think it would be fair for HSDL refund him the difference between 
what he paid and what he could have paid for his shares had the transfer payment 
been processed within 48 hours. This was because HSDL wasnt required to adhere 
to this timeframe under the terms and conditions and there is no regulatory timeframe 
either. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that Halifax had acknowledged that it 
had caused a delay in crediting his account and that delay has caused him financial loss. As 
such, it ought to refund him the difference between what he paid for his shares and what he 
could have paid had there been no delay. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSDL has explained that, due to its internal processes, it would not have been possible to 
credit the money to Mr Ms account on the day the CHAPS transfer was made. The money 
was received into HSDLs Client Money Account at around 5pm on 17 June 2019 and so I 
think its fair and reasonable that HSDL didnt begin processing this until the following day. 
Once processing the payment had begun, HSDL made the funds available to Mr M 48 hours 
later on 20 June 2019. 
Whilst HSDL gave a 48-hour timeframe over the phone and explained this would be from the 
point in which it received the funds, its terms and conditions does not stipulate a timescale 
for the completion of this kind of transaction. Nor is there any regulatory requirement on the 
timeframe for completing the relevant checks and making funds available
Its clear that HSDL did set expectations which it didnt meet, and I appreciate it would have 
been frustrating for Mr M to have to wait over the 48-hour timeframe promised on the call 
before he was able to invest. But I can only uphold his complaint if I think HSDL has acted 
incorrectly or treated him unfairly. And I dont think it has. Whilst HSDL aims to have funds 
transferred this way available to investors within 48 hours, it wasnt possible on this occasion 
due to the time the transferred funds were received. 
HSDL has also explained that there was temporary delay caused by it incorrectly 
categorising the payment as a stock transfer instead of a simple credit. However, this was 
soon cleared up after only a few hours and so it had little bearing on the overall time it took 
for the funds to be credited to Mr Ms account. 
So taking into account all of the above, whilst I agree Mr M expectations werent met, Im not 
persuaded HSDL would have been able to adhere to this timeframe on this occasion. In not 
doing so, HSLD didnt breach any agreement or regulations and so I dont think it would be 
fair to ask it to re-position the investment decisions Mr M made on 20 June 2019 as though 
he had made them the day before. Although the funds were made available to Mr M only a 
day later than he expected, its clear this did cause him some distress and inconvenience, as 
evidenced by his call to HSDL on 19 June 2019. For this, Im satisfied HSDLs offer of £100 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I am satisfied that the offer of £100 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited has made is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman