DRN-2960329
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited are pursuing him for a 
debt which they cannot definitively prove he owes.
What happened
This complaint is about an unsecured loan from 1997. It defaulted in 2000 and came under 
Cabots ownership in 2017, having been looked after by their sister company from 2007. 
Cabot and the previous owner had regular payments and contact from Mr B over the years.
In late 2020, Mr B disputed the debt and asked Cabot to show it was his. But because of the 
time that had passed, Cabot and the original creditor no longer had the original documents.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that we couldnt decide whether the debt was enforceable or not, but could look at 
whether Cabot could ask Mr B for payments or not. They found that Mr B had previously set 
up a direct debit and had been regularly paying the debt, and had not disputed it in the many 
years before now. So they thought this was most likely his account.
Mr B didnt agree. He said there was someone else with the same name as him whose 
account it could be. He asked for his case to be looked at afresh, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B would like to check this account is really his. I can also 
understand if he no longer remembers it, given all the years that have passed and the fact 
that its changed ownership. And I can understand his concern that the original documents 
are no longer available.
The thing is, this account is well over two decades old. So its rather unsurprising that the 
original documents are no longer available. Indeed, under data protection rules the debt 
owner was required to dispose of data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought 
carefully about whats most likely to be the case here.
I should explain that I cant decide whether this debt is enforceable or not  only a court can 
decide that. I have considered whether Cabot can ask Mr B for payments or not.
Ive gone through the remaining system notes, and I can see this account was registered to 
Mr B with his correct date of birth and address. It was also paid for using Mr Bs genuine 
bank account. And Ive not seen anything which indicates this account belonged to anyone 
other than Mr B, including the person with a similar name.
It looks like over the years, Mr B had a fair bit of contact with the debts owner. He discussed 
his circumstances and what he could afford, set up payments, sorted out admin issues, 
made sure his direct debit went out, and so on.
I cant see any record of Mr B disputing the debt or querying it before late 2020. And he 
made regular payments over a considerable amount of time. It looks like Mr B recognised 
the account at the time and accepted it was his. If he hadnt recognised it, or if he suspected 
it was someone elses, I might have expected him to have raised this far earlier.
So on the balance of probabilities, I think this was most likely Mr Bs account. And so I think 
its fair for Cabot to ask him for payments.
I can see that Mr B asked Cabot to stop reporting this debt on his credit file. If its of any 
consolation, this account is now far too old to still be showing on his credit file.
I hope I can reassure Mr B that its quite normal for debts to be sold on like this, and Cabot 
still have a duty to treat him fairly. So his repayments should be based on what he can 
actually afford, and if hes in any difficulties then Id expect Cabot to deal with such issues 
positively and sympathetically. Mr B may want to get back in touch with Cabot to see what 
assistance they can give him with repaying the account. Ill also send Mr B the details for 
charities who can give him free help and advice about dealing with debts. And Mr B can 
always get back in touch with us for a new case if he later feels that Cabot arent taking his 
situation into account when working out how to repay the debt.
But as things stand, I dont think Cabot have done anything wrong here, and I think its 
reasonable that theyve asked Mr B to repay the money which it seems he owes them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman