DRN-1991076
The complaint
Mr T, who is represented by his wife, complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited 
refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
 Our investigator has set out the background in some detail in his view issued in April 2020 
and in the circumstances, I will only give a brief overview of events.
In August 2019 Mr T acquired a second-hand car costing £5,946 funded by a hire purchase 
agreement. It was some nine years old and had covered over 50,000 miles. Mr T says that 
he noticed a clunking sound with the first week he had the car. In October 2019 he contacted 
Oodle.
It contacted the dealer which collected the car and it held it for about a month. Oodle offered 
Mr T £25 per day for a maximum of 14 days for a hire car. The dealer made some repairs 
and there was confusion about collecting it and taking it for a test drive. Mr T asked for a list 
of repairs, but this wasnt supplied until Oodle intervened.
On 31 October 2019 Oodle explained that it would be upholding his complaint because it 
was clear there had been various issues with the car. It went on to apologise and confirm 
that the outstanding finance on the vehicle had been settled.
Mr T explained that whilst he wanted to reject the car, he understood that because it 
reportedly had been fixed, he needed to keep it. However, he explained that a few days later 
the loud clanking noise returned, so he took it to independent garage.
This garage concluded that either the dealership previous repair had failed or it never carried 
out the reported repairs in the first place. The inspection concluded that the vehicle wasnt 
roadworthy and was unsafe to drive in its current condition.
Mr T asked to be allowed to reject the car. Based on this Mr T contacted Oodle and 
explained he wanted to reject the vehicle. Mr T said he had paid some £500 for repairs and 
believed more were needed. Mr T provided a statement from the repairing garage explaining 
the engine continued to make a loud clanking noise. And it confirmed that new issues had 
been found with the crankshaft. He also provided an invoice in the amount of £350, which 
Oodle forwarded to the dealership.
In late November 2019 an independent inspection was carried out. The inspector said that it 
believed that the transfer box had been successfully replaced to an acceptable industry 
standard by the dealership which restored it to a satisfactory condition for a vehicle of its age 
and reported mileage. Oodle refused to accept the rejection.
Mr T brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld.
He noted the dealer had apparently carried out repairs in October 2019, but he had not been 
given any evidence of these repairs and neither had Mr T. However, Mr T had confirmed the 
noise had gone so it was likely something had been done to address the noise, but it 
returned a few days later
The investigator said he had to consider that either the fault was intermittent or the 
dealerships repair had failed. Based on the repairing garages report he felt it was 
reasonable to conclude there was a problem with the car. He also noted the independent 
report which conclude the car had been repaired to reasonable standard and didnt confirm 
the crank shaft issues. Oodle felt this meant there was no basis for rejection.
However, on balance our investigator concluded that the fault was most likely developing at 
point of sale. The dealer had one attempt at a repair and as this hadnt been successful Mr T 
was within his rights to reject the car. 
Mr T had explained that he had no other alternative but to pay for the repairs to the vehicle 
as he needed to use it daily. However, after discovering how much work would be required 
to bring the vehicle up to a safe standard. He decided it wasnt reasonable to pay more 
towards repairs considering the amount of time he had the vehicle in his possession.
Our investigator thought Mr T had taken a reasonable decision in having the car repaired, 
given his lack of trust in the dealer. He noted Oodles suggestion that the new faults reported 
could've been caused by the independent garage. However, given the independent report 
said the work was completed to an acceptable standard that argument was undermined.
Also, he didnt think it was unreasonable for the independent inspector not to have been able 
replicate the clanking sound as it was intermittent. He added that recent issues hadnt been 
considered and he was satisfied there is an underlying issue with the vehicle, which made it 
of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr T had continued to make his monthly payments despite not driving the car which has put 
a strain on his personal finance and in late 2020 he was made bankrupt. Our investigator 
thought Mr T should be allowed to reject the car have his additional costs repaid and be 
refunded the monthly payments from November 2019 onwards.
Oodle didnt agree. It said that the independent report showed the car was road legal and 
considered to comply with all the criteria laid out in section 75 of the road traffic act and in 
their opinion, the car meets MOT standards.
It had never received any reports that the issues were present or developing at the point of 
sale. Furthermore, Mr T had paid for unauthorised repairs this negated any obligation for 
either rectification or rejection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Oodle is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is clear the car had a fault which appeared within days of being acquired by Mr T. This was 
repaired by the dealer and that was the right thing to do. Mr T did not make a request for 
rejection until 30 days had elapsed and so the dealer was entitled to one attempt at a repair. 
In October Oodle accepted that the car could be rejected, but Mr T was willing to accept a 
repair. I think all concerned agree the car was not fit for purpose at the point of sale.
This service regards a car as a single entity so if a further issue arises after the repair then 
rejection is deemed acceptable. The dealer doesnt get a second chance to effect a repair.
I am satisfied that the first repair was not satisfactory as evidenced by the fact it had to be 
repaired again shortly afterwards by another garage. I can understand why Mr T had lost 
faith in the dealer and decided that he needed to take the car to another garage. However, 
he was entitled to rejection at this point and that means whatever happened as a result of 
the second repair he did not lose this right.
When the third-party garage was carrying out the repairs it found yet more problems which 
meant it wasnt financially viable to spend yet more on the car. I am satisfied that the report 
from this garage is fair and accurate. As the investigator pointed out that these issues were 
also diagnosed whilst Mr T was within the first six months of his agreement.
I have taken account of the independent report which was carried out after the car had been 
repaired and the inspector notes he was unable to access some areas and it didnt cover all 
the issues identified by the third-party garage.  This shows that the work by the third-party 
garage had been completed to a reasonable standard. 
In summary, I consider the car was faulty at the point of sale and the repair made by the 
dealer wasnt successful and that entitled Mr T to reject the car. Acceptance of this decision 
now lies with the Official Receiver and any redress should be paid to it apart from the award 
of £150 for distress and inconvenience which should go direct to Mr T.
Putting things right
 Mr T should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Oodle Financial Services Limited 
to:
End the agreement with northing further to pay.
Arrange to collect the vehicle.
Refund any deposit paid unless it was used to clear existing finance.
Refund all payments made since 1 November 2019.
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the deposit from inception of the agreement until 
settlement.
Pay Mr T £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Refund the cost of inspection (£60).
Refund the cost of repairs (£350).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman