DRN-2418301
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services has applied unfair end of contract charges when her hire purchase 
agreement terminated. She wants the charges to be cancelled.
What happened
Mrs R tells us that she was invoiced for various aspects of damage and challenged it at the 
time. She feels that some damage  a dent and a bulge in a tyre  was due to manufacturing 
defects with the vehicle. And that after four years its to be expected a vehicle will show other 
signs of wear and tear.
MBFS told us that it had applied the charges in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the finance agreement. It said it had supplied Mrs R with a link to the inspection report and 
video.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Her view listed each 
separate item of damage for which a charge had been made. She felt that MBFS had 
applied the charges fairly and that they fell outside the return standards.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs R would be disappointed that charges were applied at the end of the 
contract term. In her original complaint she also mentioned a charge for excess mileage. But 
as shes indicated she now accepts this, I shant make any findings on that aspect.
Its not in dispute that the finance agreement contains a provision for charges to be applied if 
the vehicle doesnt comply with Vehicle Return Standards (VRS). I also look to good industry 
practice and guides. And that includes the fair wear and tear guidance issued by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
So the main area of dispute is whether the identified damage was outside these standards at 
the time the vehicle was returned. And if some of the issues were due to manufacturing 
defects.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note that the vehicle covered almost 80,000 miles in the four years it was used by Mrs R. 
This is some way above what wed usually consider to be average consumer use. And it was 
also significantly in excess of the contracted annual allowance of 12,000 miles. So its not 
surprising if the vehicle experienced more than average wear and tear.
Ive seen the video and the inspection report of the vehicle which was prepared by an 
independent business Ill refer to as B. The images provided are clear and are supported 
where appropriate by a measuring device. The report also identified damage which it said 
was within the VRS and so wasnt chargeable. I think the report was thorough and applied 
the VRS fairly.
Mrs R believes that part of the damage (tyre bulge and dent caused by seat belt) can be 
attributed to manufacturing faults. But Ive not seen plausible information to support this. 
Anecdotal information from the internet cant in my opinion be considered reliable.
Our investigators view gave a detailed description of each item thats been charged as 
being outside the guidelines. Ive summarised these as follows:
Two alloys:  Damage exceeds 50mm and there is corrosion;
Tyres (LHF AND RHF): both tyres below legal requirement of 1.6mm and bulge in LHF;
 
Bumper damage:  There are a number of scratches  more than 25mm;
Broken wing mirror: photo shows scuff marks and broken;
Dent inner door RHR: photos depict the dents (photos highlight three).
Based on the video and photographic information and applying this to the relevant 
standards, I find that MBFS was entitled to say the damage fell outside the VRS and was 
beyond that of an acceptable level of wear and tear. The level of charges applied is within 
the range Id expect. So Im not upholding this complaint.
I understand that Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision but based on the information 
Ive received I believe that MBFS applied the charges fairly.
Whilst it doesnt directly form part of the complaint, Im aware that Mrs R has expressed that 
due to the pandemic shes in financial difficulties. And that this will affect her ability to repay 
the charges. All financial businesses are required to treat customers fairly and with 
forbearance and due consideration when they are made aware the customer is experiencing 
financial difficulties.
Id expect MBFS to be aware of this and to engage with Mrs R to discuss an affordable and 
sustainable means of repayment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman