DRN-3241642
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wrongly classified his credit card 
account as persistent debt, didnt follow its stated procedure and suggested undesirable 
and impractical repayment options.
What happened
Mr B has a credit card account with RBS. 
In July 2021, he received a letter from RBS. They said theyd written to Mr B previously to 
tell him that his monthly repayments were low in comparison to the outstanding balance. 
Theyd previously asked Mr B to increase his repayments if he could afford to. RBS said his 
credit card balance wasnt reducing fast enough and he could be in persistent debt.  
RBS said they had a specialist team who could explore different repayment options.  They 
included two options within their letter. Mr B could either repay the outstanding balance 
within six months and he may be able to keep his card for further spending. Alternatively, Mr 
B could repay the balance over a term of up to 48 months, but he would no longer be able to 
use his card.
Mr B said RBS had made a mistake. His account wasnt in persistent debt, so RBS hadnt 
followed the correct procedure. He also said he hadnt received any of the previous letters 
RBS said theyd sent. So, he complained to RBS.
RBS responded to Mr Bs complaint in August 2021. They apologised if their letter had 
caused any upset or frustration. They agreed that Mr B had met the terms and conditions 
that applied to his account. But they said the account still fell within the criteria for persistent 
debt. They explained what this meant. RBS said Mr B had paid more in interest and charges 
than hed paid off his balance. They also said theyd sent previous letters to the correct 
address and none were returned as undelivered. RBS didnt agree theyd made an error.
Mr B didnt agree with RBSs response to his complaint. So, he referred matters to this 
service to consider. Having reviewed the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, our investigator 
also didnt think RBS had done anything wrong here. Mr B didnt agree with our 
investigators findings. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules relating to persistent debt on credit cards were brought about following the FCAs 
Credit Card Market Study (CCMS) published in July 2016. The outcome of the study brought 
about changes in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), part of the FCAs handbook in 
early 2018. Under the new rules, businesses are required to take a series of escalating steps 
to help customers break the cycle of persistent debt and ensure customers who cant afford 
to repay more quickly are given help. 
RBS wrote to Mr B as part of their obligations under CONC 6.7.27  6.7.28. The 
requirements are that RBS must tell Mr B if hes paid more in interest, charges and fees in 
the preceding 18 months than hed paid off his borrowing. They should also explain that 
increasing payments will reduce Mr Ms borrowing costs and encourage him to contact them 
to discuss his financial circumstances. They should warn Mr M about the implications of 
reaching a position of 36 months in persistent debt. 
RBS have confirmed they routinely check customers accounts each month to identify where 
there may be persistent debt situations. Their letters and actions are only triggered once the 
persistent debt criteria is met in an 18-month period.
Ive seen a template copy of the first letter RBS sent to Mr B in January 2020. Its contents 
met all of these requirements. RBS confirm that of the £2,144.92 paid by Mr B during the 
previous 18 months, £1,125.56 covered Interest and charges. This meant that £1,020.36 
went towards the balance owed. Having compared this to Mr Bs statements, I agree his 
account did meet the FCAs criteria for persistent debt at that time. Hed paid less off his 
balance than hed paid in interest and charges. RBSs letter also said that increasing 
repayments could save considerable amounts of interest and help repay the balance much 
sooner. I think this was helpful and the right thing to do in the circumstances.
RBS were required to complete a further nine-month review of Mr Bs account to ensure they 
met their obligations under CONC 6.7.29. Between April and June 2020, it seems RBS 
reduced the interest rate charged on Mr Bs account. This meant that more of Mr Bs 
repayments were being used to reduce the balance he owed. So, Mr Bs account didnt meet 
the persistent debt criteria during that period. So, they didnt need to write to Mr B.
In July 2021, RBS wrote to Mr B again in order to meet their obligations under CONC 6.7.30 
 6.7.40. They said that Mr Bs account had now reached the end of the second 18-month 
period and hed continued to pay more in interest and charges than towards the amount 
borrowed. RBS have confirmed that of the total £1,681.46 paid by Mr B during the 18 
months, £963.63 covered interest and charges. This meant that £717.83 went towards the 
balance owed. Ive reviewed Mr Bs statements and agree the account did meet the 
persistent debt criteria.
Mr B told this service hed checked his previous statements. He said that interest and 
charges were around £65 and repayments he made were around £80. He also said that 
£65 is less than £80, not more. I agree with what Mr B said. But that means that of the 
£80 paid by Mr B, only £15 was used to reduce the balance he owed. The rest paid interest 
and charges. The definition doesnt compare the total amount paid to the interest and 
charges. It looks at how the total is split. So, using Mr Bs example, the interest and charges 
are four times the amount being repaid off the remaining balance owed. And as this meets 
the FCAs definition of persistent debt, I cant reasonably say that RBS wrongly classified 
Mr Bs account. 
Mr B said he didnt receive any letters from RBS before July 2021. Hes also asked this 
service to provide proof. I would like to reassure Mr B that Im satisfied RBS did previously 
write to him. Their records clearly show that. Theyve also confirmed that all statements and 
letters were sent to the address they hold for Mr B. That address is shown on all his 
statements and matches the one provided by Mr B to this service. While Mr B may not have 
received previous letters, I cant reasonably hold RBS responsible for that. Once letters were 
sent, they wouldnt have had control over their ultimate delivery.
The FCAs rules as regards RBSs actions and the options presented are detailed in CONC 
6.7.30 - 6.7.40. Having considered the letter RBS sent to Mr B in July 2021, Im believe it 
met the FCAs requirements. So, I cant reasonably conclude that RBS did anything wrong 
here.
Ive looked at RBSs website and searched for any reference to persistent debt. I was able to 
find the relevant page quickly and I believe it provides a full explanation of persistent debt 
and the steps RBS are required to take.I fully appreciate Mr Bs frustrations. It appears he may have misunderstood what RBS told 
him about the rules around persistent debt. But on balance, I cant agree that RBS have 
done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly in these circumstances. The FCAs rules under 
CONC are specifically designed to require lenders to provide support and options to 
consumers, to ensure they avoid potential debt problems in the future. I believe thats what 
RBS were trying to do here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
I see there have been subsequent exchanges in relation to the current status of Mr Bs 
account with RBS. I would encourage Mr B to discuss his current circumstances and explore 
options with RBS, so that a way forward thats acceptable to both parties can be agreed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman