DRN-3393286
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc delayed progressing an application for 
a business account, and then unfairly refused to provide an account without saying why. R 
says it lost out on investment opportunities for which it wants to be compensated.
What happened
Our investigator discussed the events which led to Rs complaint in their view. Those events 
are not in dispute, so I find no need to repeat everything again here. But in summary Mr H is 
the director of R. He, along with another director, who has since resigned, set up R to make 
property investments in 2020. Both he and the former director are longstanding HSBC 
personal account holders, so they thought applying for a business account with HSBC made 
sense.
R applied for an account in August 2020, but, unfortunately, the application wasnt 
progressed due to a system error. R reapplied for the account and eventually HSBC 
declined the application in April 2021. During this time Mr H raised two complaints  one in 
February 2021 about the length of time HSBC were taking, and another about HSBC not 
providing a clear reason as to why the second application was declined. Mr H says R lost out 
on multiple investment opportunities which caused it financial loss and led to the breakdown 
of his business relationship with the other director who resigned from R.
While the complaint has been with our service, HSBC offered £200 for the delay they caused 
R. The offer was put to Mr H, which he rejected. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided the offer was fair and reasonable. 
They found HSBC should not be held responsible for Rs decision not to go elsewhere to 
make the investments. It was Rs choice to persist with HSBC despite HSBC being under no 
obligation to provide an account. Requiring HSBC to pay the losses R experienced by not 
making investments was not reasonable in these circumstances.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. He says he relied on HSBC advising him the issues 
with Rs application would be resolved, so it didnt make sense to go elsewhere. He asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman, and the complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided the offer HSBC made is reasonable compensation to make up for the 
inconvenience R was caused by HSBC taking too long to decide whether to provide a 
business account. But I am not awarding any further redress for financial loss R says it 
experienced because it didnt have an account to use for investments. Ill explain why.
HSBC had no obligation to provide R with a business account or to provide an account when 
R wanted. Mr H believed HSBC would have no problem providing R with an account given 
his and the former directors long-standing relationship with HSBC as personal account 
holders. But whether he and the former director thought an account was a formality, HSBC 
still had a broad commercial discretion to decide whether to provide one, and they were 
entitled not to offer one. 
I have not seen evidence to show HSBC told Mr H they would provide an account to R or 
that the administrative error which occurred meant Rs application would go on to be 
approved. Mr H may have thought everything would be okay, but this isnt the same thing.
HSBC acknowledged the first application wasnt progressed when it should have been. And I 
agree they failed to take the due care that I would expect. But, ultimately I dont find it fair to 
hold HSBC responsible for Rs failure to act to ensure R could make investments. Mr H and 
Rs former director made a business decision to predicate making investments only on 
HSBC providing an account, but HSBC had given no undertaking to ensure R would be able 
to make those investments. In these circumstances, while the service HSBC provided should 
have been better, I find holding HSBC liable for Rs failure to make investments by other 
means would be unreasonable. Instead, I find these are losses R should bear. 
Mr H understandably wants to know why HSBC declined Rs application. But HSBC does not 
need to reveal why they decided not to offer an account. They are entitled to treat their 
reason(s) as confidential, so I wont be revealing those reason(s) by virtue of R making a 
complaint. I have, however, considered why HSBC declined the account and I find they 
acted within the commercial discretion they have, and that they didnt act unlawfully.
Mr H no doubt experienced personal distress and inconvenience trying to open an account 
for R. The account application process took a long time and I imagine he was frustrated 
when the first application wasnt progressed, and further frustrated when the second 
application was declined. But these are not losses I can consider in relation to R. R is a 
limited company, which means it is a separate legal person to Mr H by virtue of 
incorporation, so I can only consider losses experienced by it as the eligible complainant 
under the rules we must follow.
Mr role in awarding compensation is not to punish HSBC for making a mistake irrespective 
of its profile as a well-known retail bank. Fines and penalties are the remit of the financial 
regulators. 
Ultimately R was likely inconvenienced by the delay HSBC caused. But I find the delay did 
not reasonably prevent R from going elsewhere to make investments. So, in these 
circumstances, I find £200 represents a fair sum to make up for the other operational 
difficulty HSBC may have caused R. 
Rs directors were the controlling mind for R, and it was for them to decide what to do when 
an account from HSBC had yet to transpire. While HSBC should where possible consider 
their customers interests, I dont think it fair to hold HSBC responsible for the choice Rs 
former director made to leave because an account hadnt been opened when they expected.
Putting things right
Subject to R accepting my final decision, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £200 to R.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Rs complaint for the reasons I have given above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman