DRN-3183285
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the policy limit Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) applied when he 
made a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had a burglary at his home. So, he contacted Aviva to make a claim. Aviva accepted 
the claim but capped the amount it would pay for valuables at £10,000 as this was the 
amount specified in the policy. This was substantially less than his valuables were worth.
When Mr K complained, Aviva confirmed it had correctly settled the claim for the valuables. 
So, Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Aviva had fairly settled the claim in line with the policy limit.
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im aware that Mr K has also complained that he was mis-sold the policy. The policy wasnt 
sold by Aviva and that complaint will be looked at separately.
When Aviva agreed to settle Mr Ks claim, it said the stolen items that came under the 
valuables part of the policy would be subject to the £10,000 limit specified in the policy. Mr K 
has said his valuables were worth considerably more than this and that he thought his 
valuables were insured for £50,000. 
Ive looked at the policy documents. These said that unspecified valuables were subject to a 
policy limit of £10,000. So, based on this, I think it was fair for Aviva to only pay a maximum 
of £10,000 for these items. However, Im aware that Mr K has said he didnt receive the 
policy documents, so was unaware of the policy limit. So, Ive thought about this.
A separate company sold Mr K the policy, so Aviva wasnt responsible for the sale. However, 
from what Ive seen, shortly after Mr K bought the policy, Aviva sent Mr K the policy 
documents by post. Mr K has said he didnt receive them. However, from what I can see the 
documents were sent to the correct address and Ive seen evidence that Aviva printed them. 
If the documents werent received, I dont think that was down to the actions of Aviva. Once 
the documents were sent, Aviva wasnt responsible for ensuring they were actually 
delivered.
So, thinking about this, this doesnt affect my view that it was reasonable for Aviva to apply 
the £10,000 policy limit. This was the limit specified in the policy and the basis on which Mr 
Ks valuables were insured. I havent found any reason to say Aviva should have settled the 
claim for the valuables at a different amount and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman