DRN-1869456
The complaint
 Mr T complains about arrears fees and charges, and legal fees, added to his mortgage with 
Mortgage Express. He also complains about what ME has recorded on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr T has an interest only mortgage with ME. Hes been in arrears for many years and there 
have been several sets of court proceedings, resulting in suspended possession orders, 
over the years.
Mr T complains about how ME has treated him. Hes unhappy with fees and charges added 
to the loan, particularly legal fees after a hearing in 2016 which he said went in his favour.
Mr T has made many complaints over the years to ME, some of which hes brought to our 
service and some of which he hasnt. 
Our investigator looked at the various final responses Mr T had received over the years, and 
his previous complaints to us. Taking those into account, he said that the only matters we 
could look at were:
Arrears fees added between May 2018 and August 2019;
Legal fees added between September 2017 and August 2019; and
Entries on Mr Ts credit file between October 2017 and August 2019.
 
Both parties accepted that. The investigator then considered the merits of those complaints. 
He said that six arrears fees had been charged while Mr T was in an agreed arrangement 
which he was sticking to. So he said those fees should be refunded. But he didnt think legal 
fees should be refunded. In the same months where the arrears fees should be refunded, he 
said Mr Ts credit file should be amended to show arrangement rather than arrears.
ME agreed to remove the arrears fees, because it accepted Mr T had paid more than his 
contractual payment in those months. But it didnt agree the credit file should be amended 
because, it said, there was no arrangement in place  so it rightly showed Mr T as being in 
arrears. Our investigator, on further reflection, agreed that the credit file was accurate and 
shouldnt be amended.
Mr T didnt agree. He said that his credit file shouldnt show arrears because hed made his 
payments in those months. And he didnt think it fair he was charged legal fees when he felt 
hed won the case, or that he should be charged for work done by MEs solicitors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a long history in this case of financial difficulties. Mr T has been in arrears for many 
years and he and ME have agreed several arrangements. These havent always been stuck 
to, and ME has taken Mr T to court several times. All this falls outside the timeframe its been 
agreed I can consider  and I agree with the investigators findings about that.
There was a hearing in August 2018, which led to further legal fees being added to the 
mortgage. This was an application by Mr T to set aside a warrant of possession ME had 
obtained. Mr T is right that he was successful in this application. The court suspended the 
warrant on condition Mr T maintained his payments and reduced the arrears.
Following this hearing, ME added its costs to the mortgage balance. Since the court had 
made no order about costs  neither saying ME should pay, nor that Mr T should  ME took 
the view that it was entitled to charge Mr T. It said that the terms and conditions allowed it to 
recover its costs from him, and the court hadnt said it couldnt. Thats standard in 
possession cases; the court rarely makes a costs order.
ME is right about that. The terms and conditions do allow it to pass on its costs to Mr T. I 
wouldnt expect it to do so when the court has ordered ME to pay costs, but thats not the 
case here. And I also wouldnt expect it to do so where it would be unfair or unreasonable. 
But I dont think thats the case either. While Mr T was successful in his application to 
suspend the warrant, the hearing was only necessary because he was sufficiently in arrears 
that a court had already made a possession order. In light of the mortgage history, it wasnt 
unreasonable for ME to have taken court proceedings. And so I dont think it was unfair for it 
to recover its costs  as the terms and conditions allow it to do.
Im pleased ME has now agreed to remove six arrears fees. I dont think it was fair to charge 
those fees, when Mr T made at least his contractual payment and therefore was improving 
the mortgage position. 
However, I dont think it would be right to amend Mr Ts credit file. For each of those months, 
it shows that he was in arrears. Thats accurate; he was. A credit file shows the overall 
position each month, not just the payment made in that month. And while Mr T had made his 
payments, overall the mortgage was still in arrears. Thats what the credit file shows, and so 
I dont think it should be amended. Its important that a credit file accurately reflects the state 
of the mortgage account.
Putting things right
As ME now agrees, the six arrears fees Ive set out below should be removed from Mr Ts 
mortgage account, together with interest charged on them since.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold this complaint, in part. Mortgage Express should remove 
the following arrears fees from the loan balance, together with interest charged on them:
May 2018
June 2018
July 2018
December 2018
February 2019
March 2019Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman