DRN-2254281
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) provided him with
inaccurate information about the maturity value of his Maximum Investment Plan (MIP).
What happened
Mr S took out the MIP in question in 1999 with an organisation that LV subsequently took
over. The plan had monthly premiums of £50, a sum assured of £4,500 and an initial term of
10 years. At the end of the initial term there was an option to extend for a further ten years,
which Mr S took up, taking the plan through to October 2019.
In September 2019 he received a letter saying that the MIP was about to mature, giving an
indicative value of just over £22,500. Mr S was very concerned by this as, based on previous
years statements, he was expecting a significantly higher figure, closer to £35,000. Upon
maturity LV paid a sum of £22,640.
Mr S wrote to LV to question the value but received no response. It took further attempts
before LV eventually acknowledged and responded to his complaint. It explained that the
value paid to him had been correct but there had been several errors in the early years of
the extension of the MIPs term, which had led to an incorrectly inflated value in statements
from 2012 onwards.
LV apologised and offered Mr S a sum of £800 to compensate him for loss of expectation,
the trouble and upset caused by the matter and its poor service in dealing with the
complaint.
Mr S didnt accept the offer and referred the matter to this service, but our investigator felt
LVs offer was a fair one. Mr S remained unhappy. He stressed that LV had indicated that if
hed made a specific financial commitment based on the inaccurate information it wouldve
considered compensation for this. Mr S felt that the impact of the errors on his financial
planning for retirement were akin to such a financial commitment.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me
to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I was broadly in agreement with the 
investigator. I said:
The problems with Mr S MIP began in 2010, soon after the 10-year extension to its term 
had started. He was sent a statement showing that the current value was only around £630, 
a much lower figure than the £6,900 given for the previous years value. Mrs S queried this
with LV and it was explained that thered been an error related to inaccuracies in the number
of units and the bid price quoted. The MIPs value at that point should actually have been
around £9,000.
The 2011 the statement again contained errors, giving very low incorrect figures for both the
previous years value and the current value. Mr S doesnt appear to have contacted LV on
that occasion. The 2012 statement also contained errors. It showed the correct value for the
previous year  £8,512  but showed a greatly increased figure for the current value 
£19,071, which was incorrect. Again, Mr S didnt question the statement. LV has confirmed
that all these errors in value were related to issues with the number of units and the bid
prices.
The incorrect value for the MIP given in the 2012 then remained uncorrected until its
maturity, meaning that each subsequent statement showed a value for the MIP far above its
correct value. Hence Mr S concern when, having been given a value of just over £35,000 in
the 2018 statement, he received the actual maturity value of £22,640.
As noted, LV accepts that it made repeated errors with Mr S statements. But it feels that fair
compensation for this is the payment of £500 to compensate the loss of expectation and
£200 for the trouble and upset caused (plus £100 for failing to answer the complaint
promptly). But LV doesnt feel that Mr S has incurred a further loss by virtue of committing
money based upon the misinformation. Mr S disagrees as he feels that he now has a
shortfall in his financial planning and that he should therefore be paid the £35,000 figure to
avoid being out of pocket.
I understand Mr S point about his financial planning and it effectively being a financial
commitment. But any award of compensation relating to money committed on the basis of
incorrect information would be dependent upon whether it was reasonable for that incorrect
information to have been relied upon. In Mr S case Im not persuaded that it was reasonable
for him to rely upon the information given by LV, and Ill explain why.
At the point that Mr S statement said that the MIP was worth £19,000 he was already aware
that there had been errors with previous valuations, and he had raised these with LV. So, he
was effectively on notice that things could go wrong. Furthermore, the difference between
the correct previous years value of £8,512 in the 2012 statement and the incorrect current
value of £19,071 was more that £10,000. I think its reasonable to conclude that this
substantial variance ought to have given Mr S cause for concern, as the incorrect figures in
the 2010 statement clearly given, which prompted him to query them.
And in addition to this, Mr S had an additional MIP that hed started six months after the MIP
being considered here. The second MIP had the same premiums, sum assured and term as
the first plan. Its term was also extended for a further ten years and it was invested in the
same fund. So, Mr S a very similar plan running virtually parallel to the MIP in question with
which he wouldve been able to make an almost direct comparison. And as there were
(presumably) no errors made with the second MIP its statements always showed the correct
value. So, there was no corresponding huge jump in its value in 2012, which subsequently
always remained far below the value being shown in the statements for the first MIP.
This all being so, while I accept that LVs administration of the first MIP and its errors
constitute a very serious failing, I also think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr S to have
spotted in 2012 or subsequent years that something might be wrong. And Ive no reason to
think that if he had raised the matter with LV then, it wouldnt have corrected the value,
bringing it much more in line with the second MIP.
So, in terms of Mr S financial planning, I dont think it was reasonable for him to rely upon
the information being provided by LV. I note what hes said about once having questioned
the values in 2011 he had no reason to think LV would do anything other than act correctly,
so there was no need to query the ongoing statements or make comparisons with the other
MIP. But mistakes do occur and its one of the reasons that statements and related
correspondence are sent to customers, so they can monitor their accounts and investments
and query anything that looks unusual or unexpected.That isnt to say that LV doesnt have a responsibility to get things right. As Ive said, this
was undoubtably a serious failing on its part. But I think the compensation that has been
offered, totalling £800, is fair given the wider circumstances of the complaint. I dont feel that
there are sufficient grounds for directing additional compensation on the basis that it was
reasonable for Mr S to rely upon LVs misinformation and he has incurred a loss as a result.
LV confirmed it had nothing it wished to add in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr S responded to say, in brief:
It beggared belief that I had concluded that he should be responsible for correcting 
LVs errors. 
His MIP shouldve been flagged as requiring extra scrutiny as a result of the previous 
errors  my decision unfairly placed responsibility for doing so with him. 
He had a reasonable expectation that the information provided by LV could be 
trusted, and he could assume that everything would be OK following the previous 
errors. 
If anyone shouldve been on notice it was LV.
The other MIP had no relevance  the complaint was about the first MIP in isolation.
It was incongruous to find that LV had made a very serious failing but nevertheless 
place the responsibility on to him. 
He was left with a loss of £13,500.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld, as I think the 
offer totalling £800 already made is fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr S feels that my decision places responsibility for the matter on him, when it 
was clearly LV who made the mistakes. For clarity, I think LV is solely responsible for the 
mistakes made in administering his MIP, which is why I agree it should pay Mr S 
compensation. 
But the correct value of Mr S MIP was £22,640 and that is what LV has paid to him. I could 
only fairly conclude that LV should pay the erroneous £35,000 figure if I felt it was 
reasonable for Mr S to have assumed it to be correct, and further, that hed made a specific 
financial commitment based on that assumption, so leaving him with a defined loss.  
However, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont think thats the case 
here. In my view there was enough information available to Mr S to have given him 
reasonable awareness that the value being quoted to him for the MIP might be incorrectly 
inflated. 
For instance, the significant over valuation in the 2012 statement (coming very soon after the 
initial error that he raised with LV) along with the comparison with the other, very similar, 
MIP. On this latter point, I recognise Mr S feels the second MIP is irrelevant to this 
complaint. But I remain of the view that it wouldve been reasonable to note the disparity 
between the two plans.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman