DRN-4374816
The complaint
Miss S complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wouldnt refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Miss S says:
In January 2022, Miss S read an article about bitcoin investment  and how someone had 
made good returns. She went online and looked at a bitcoin trading platform and was then 
contacted by someone who said he was an investment advisor. 
She was told how to set up an account with an investment platform (B) and was given an 
account manager, who then contacted her. Miss S researched the website of B and it looked 
credible. She saw reviews from other customers of B  who said they were making good 
returns. The account manager said she could double her money within six months.
He coached her to set up an app for the investment platform (I will call the investment 
company B) and helped Miss S open an account with a payment services provider (which I 
will call PSP1). This was a crypto wallet for the purposes of receiving money from a bank 
account and then transferring it to B.
Miss S made several small trades  by sending funds from her bank accounts to PSP1 and 
then to B. And saw her investment growing by looking at her account in Bs website. She 
was encouraged to make further investments  and sent £15,610 from her Starling account. 
The account manager sent her WhatsApp messages every day to make sure she could see 
the profits she was making. And sent regular investment reports. He pressurised her to 
invest more money.
In March 2022, she received a warning from PSP1 to say her account had been frozen due 
to suspected suspicious activity. The account manager told her how to respond to PSP1, 
and she was then encouraged by him to open another account with a second payment 
services provider (PSP2). The account manager showed her how to transfer money from 
her bank accounts to PSP2, and then onto the investment company.
In April 2022, Miss S made payments from her Starling account to PSP2 totalling £21,928.
Miss S made payments from one of her other bank accounts to PSP2 and then to B - 
totalling £17,290. 
Miss S was in touch with the account manager by WhatsApp messages from January 2022 
to June 2022.
In May 2022, the account manager said the bitcoin market was crashing and her account 
was falling into deficit  her initial investment was going down. Miss S went into panic 
mode. He said she had to buy insurance (costing £20,000) to protect her investment  but 
she would still make a profit. Miss S said she had no money left  but under pressure from 
the account manager, she took out a loan for £4,000 and sent that to PSP2 and then to the 
investment company. These payments were made from another bank account.
The payments made from Miss Ss Starling account (totalling £37,538) are the subject of this 
complaint:
Number Date Type/ Beneficiary Amount
1 26 January 2022 Faster payment/ PSP1 £60
2 27 January 2022 Faster payment/ PSP1 £550
3 7 February 2022 Faster payment/ PSP1 £4,000
4 14 February 2022 Faster payment/ PSP1 £2,000
5 14 February 2022 Faster payment/ PSP1 £2,000
6 15 February 2022 Faster payment/ PSP1 £1,000
7 20 February 2022 Faster payment/ PSP1 £1,000
8 21 February 2022 Faster payment/ PSP1 £5,000
Total Faster payment/ PSP1 £15,610
Number Date Type/ Beneficiary Amount
9 28 March 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £50
10 28 March 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £450
11 29 March 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £3,800
12 5 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £5,000
13 14 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £5,000
14 19 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £5,000
15 26 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £2,528
16 26 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £100
Total Faster payment/ PSP2 £21,928
Miss S believed she would immediately get her investment money back, but she couldnt 
then get access to the website of B, and the WhatsApp messages to / from the account 
manager were blocked. She then realised she had been the victim of a scam.She had sold her house the year before and a lot of the money had been lost. She was now 
finding it difficult to pay bills. She now had a high interest loan to make repayments to; and 
had to move in with her partner to enable her to live. Her losses were putting pressure on 
her relationship. She feels anxious and angry.
Miss S said the payments werent typical. She said Starling shouldve done more to protect 
her. She says the bank should refund the money she paid from her Starling account.
What Starling said:
Starling said that when Miss S made the first payments to PSP1 (on 27 January 2022) and 
PSP2 (on 28 March 2022), she was given a scam warning when she set up the new payees. 
Miss S clicked to say, I understand. In response to further questions, Miss S said the 
payment were for investments; for shares, funds, cryptocurrency; she was making the 
investments via a crypto or currency exchange; she said shed made such an investment 
before; and had paid the payee before.
Miss S was given a link to check the FCAs register. Miss S again clicked I understand.
Starling went on to say the payments were to a crypto wallet  and from there, funds were 
passed to the investment company by Miss S. Starling said they couldnt be held liable for 
that  as the point of loss wasnt with the payments from Starling. And because the 
payments were to Miss Ss own account, the transactions couldnt be considered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM).
Our investigation so far:
Miss S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Starling shouldve gone further 
then they did and intervened in the eighth payment (on 21 February 2022 - £5,000). By then, 
Miss S had made a series of five payments to a crypto exchange over a seven-day period, 
totalling £11,000.
But even if Starling hadve intervened, he wasnt persuaded that it wouldve made a 
difference and Miss S wouldve gone ahead anyway. He referred to a call with one of her 
other banks (in April 2022) - when that bank intervened in a similar payment. He felt that 
Miss S wouldve answered the questions in the same way, and the payments wouldve been 
released.
He said Starling couldnt have recovered any funds as they wouldve been removed from 
PSP1 and PSP2 by Miss S and moved to the investment firm.
Miss S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come 
to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss S has lost money in a cruel and sophisticated scam. Its not in 
question that she authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although she 
didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in 
the first instance. So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Starling should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary  and in this case, the payments were made to Miss S own account with the 
payment services firms (PSP1 and PSP2). 
The important matter here is whether these were payments that Starling might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the 
payment and contacted Miss S about them. 
I looked at Miss S account history with Starling  from August 2021 to the beginning of 
January 2022, the account was dormant with no activity and a balance of 49p. Then, in 
January 2022, the main activity was for the account to be used for the payments to PSP1 
and PSP2. So  its reasonable for me to say that the payments to PSP1 and PSP2 were 
unusual.
Payments 1-7: 26 January 2022 to 20 February 2022:
Having said that, theres a balance to be struck: Starling has obligations to be alert to fraud 
and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, 
I think Starling acted reasonably in processing the payments between 26 January 2022 and 
20 February 2022 - as they were relatively low value.
Payment 8: 21 February 2022: £5,000:
I agree that Starling shouldve intervened at this point and asked questions of Miss S. By 
then, a series of payments for £10,610 had been made in period of just over three weeks 
and from an account which had been dormant up to then. But  Starling didnt do so. 
But I then must consider whether, based on probabilities, Miss S wouldve gone ahead and 
made the payments in any case. And here, like our investigator, Im persuaded she would 
have. I say that because:- Miss S had already responded to the warnings given to her by Starling previously. 
When the payment to PSP1 was set up on 26 January 2022, Starling asked:
Could this payee be part of a scam? If in doubt, just stop here and visit our website 
to learn about avoiding fraud". A link was provided to information about scams.
- The Confirmation of Payee then failed and Starling warned Starling or any other 
institution will never call unexpectedly and ask you to move money to a new or safe' 
account. If you are being instructed to make this payment or have any doubts about 
what you are doing, stop and contact us through in app chat".
- When Miss S made the payment of £550 on 27 January 2022, Starling gave a 
warning which said: WARNING. Are you being told to make this payment? Anyone 
telling you what buttons to click, or asking you to read the text on this screen out loud 
is a criminal. You must not make the payment if you are being told how to answer the 
questions or explain the payment. Read each question carefully and answer 
truthfully, otherwise you could lose all the money sent.  Miss S selected I 
understand.
- Starling then asked further questions:
oPlease tell us what this payment is for  Miss S answered investments"
oWhere are you transferring money to?  Miss S answered Shares, funds, 
cryptocurrency, foreign exchange or pension
oHow are you making this investment?  Miss S answered Via a crypto or 
currency exchange
oWARNING. Always research a company and check reviews from other 
people. if the investment returns sound too good to be true - this could be a 
scam. All Financial Advisors and Financial institutions should be FCA 
registered. You can check the FCA register here https: XXXX- Miss S 
selected I understand".
oHave you made an investment like this before?  Miss S answered Yes
oHave you paid into this investment account and/or scheme before?  Miss S 
answered Yes
oHave you paid this payee before?  Miss S answered Yes
oWARNING. Fraudsters will tell you how to answer these questions to scam 
you. A genuine organisation will never do this. A bank or any other 
organisation will never tell you to move money to a new, 'safe' bank account. 
Fraudsters can make phone calls appear to come from a different number. 
Are you speaking with who you think you are? if in doubt you can call us on 
XXX) - Miss S answered, I understand.
- A similar set of questions and warnings were sent to Miss S on 28 March 2022  
when she made the first payment of £450 to PSP2. She clicked to say, I understand 
(the warnings). In addition, I noted she was also asked at that time: Have you been 
told by someone to move this money unexpectedly or urgently?  Miss S answered 
No- Of themselves, I dont think these interactions went far enough, and Miss S 
responses were enough to expect Starling to have held these payments, or at least 
the subsequent, higher value ones. 
But I also reviewed the other evidence here to reach a balanced and reasonable 
decision.
- I noted the calls between Miss S and another bank involved in the scam  on 25 April 
2022 and 26 April 2022. This was at the same time as several of the payments from 
the Starling account. For reasons of confidentiality, I cant quote the conversation and 
Miss S answers here, but she (and her advisors) will see that related decision and 
the call content. Miss S was confident in her answers, and for me, its clear that Miss 
S wanted to go ahead and make the payments to PSP2, and its more likely than not 
- she wouldve said the same to Starling.
- This is also supported by the WhatsApp chats I reviewed. Miss S was wanting to find 
banks that would easily make payments to PSP1 and PSP2 and was frustrated when 
some payments were held up. There were conversations with the account manager 
as to which were the best banks to use for crypto payments.
- The chats also show how keen Miss S was to make the payments over the period. 
She was clearly attracted by the apparent opportunity to make a profit. 
- Miss S ignored the warning she got from PSP1  in February 2022, PSP1 said 
During a recent account review, we noticed that you have transacted with wallet 
addresses which may be associated with an investment scam. Can you please 
explain the following?.... (PSP1) is committed to providing a safe and secure platform 
for its customers and your answers to the above questions will support us in that 
mission. Miss S was coached by the account manager to provide suitable answers. 
Her account was then suspended by PSP1. But she then set up another account with 
PSP2  which I think shows she was keen to go ahead.
- I accept that this was a sophisticated and clever scam, and Miss S was clearly 
completely taken in by the account manager  the WhatsApp chats show that. He 
sent her regular reports and investment proposals; she could see from the (fake) 
website she was making money, and she was enticed into sending more funds., 
usually with days of receiving the investment ideas. But for me, that only goes to 
show that she wouldve gone ahead in any case, despite what Starling may have 
said to her.
Therefore, in summary, I dont consider I can reasonably hold Starling liable for the 
payments Miss S made.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes 
place. I looked at whether Starling took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. 
Miss S contacted Starling with details of the scam in September 2022. Starling then tried to 
recover the money, but without any success. Given the passage of time since the scam, it 
was unlikely there would be any funds left  as its usual in scams of this type that funds are removed by the scammers within hours. In addition, the accounts with PSP1 and  PSP2 
were in Miss Ss own name, and she then moved the funds onto the investment company  
so there werent any funds to be reclaimed.
Miss S has lost a lot of money. Shes explained why the money was important to her, and 
the impact her losses have had. I was sorry to learn of her circumstances. She will therefore 
be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Starling to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman