DRN-4079349
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) as he feels it misled him about the price of cover hed likely be charged in the second 
year of his policy.
What happened
Mr S arranged cover with LV. It wasnt prepared to afford him any no claims discount (NCD) 
as the NCD he had accrued was on a commercial policy. He was told there was no discount 
which LV could apply. Mr S agreed to the cover but noted that, after one year, LV would 
grant him an NCD of 60%.
At renewal Mr S was disappointed to note that the new premium was not 60% less than that 
charged the year before. It was more like 10%. LV told Mr S that was because the base cost 
for the current years policy was more than that charged the year before. And it was this cost 
which the one years NCD, referenced in the policy as averaging 60%, was applied to. LV 
didnt think it had done anything wrong but, noting Mr Ss dissatisfaction, offered to pay £50 
compensation. Mr S, remaining unhappy, complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded that LV had miss-sold the policy to Mr S. She explained 
that no insurer would apply an NCD to the cost of cover from the year before  that would 
eventually result in the policyholder being charged very little for the cover. She said it isnt 
unusual for prices to change and it is to that changed price against which any NCD is 
applied. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S said he still felt hed been misled. He said if he had known that the cost of cover in year 
two would not be significantly less than that charged in year one, hed have looked 
elsewhere for his policy. He said LV, when he bought the cover, had told him there was no 
discount, but it had since said there was a background discount applied which it doesnt tell 
its customers about. Mr S said that could not be seen as a fair practice. He said he expected 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to insist that when LV gives an introductory NCD this 
should be disclosed. His complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S feels let down by LV. But Im not persuaded it did anything wrong 
here. Mr S was offered a price for cover which he agreed to. But that was an agreement 
which only lasted one year. Each year of insurance is a separate contract. And an insurer 
isnt usually bound to offer cover for any longer than that. In offering the price LV did to Mr S 
when he first arranged the policy, LV was not making any overture or promise to him about 
what cover it would offer the following year, or what price it would charge. 
Some insurers, whether or not a prospective policyholder is able to benefit from an NCD, will 
discount the first years price of cover. That isnt to say they are applying an introductory 
NCD as Mr S has referred to. Rather it is a case of an insurer, applying a discount to its cost 
of cover where it wants to encourage new business. The detail of a discount such as this 
isnt something Id expect LV to share with Mr S as it would be considered commercially 
sensitive information.    
This service is not the regulator. So we dont make findings or awards with a view to making 
an insurer change how they do business. LV should be clear with Mr S about the price it is 
charging for cover. And, as far as I can see it has done that by setting out in his renewal 
documents what the charge for this year will be as against what he paid last year. And it also 
confirmed he might like to shop around, that he wasnt bound to stay with it.
Taking everything into account, I dont think LV failed Mr S. If Mr S would like LV to pay him 
the £50 it previously offered to him, he should contact it directly.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman