DRN-3899187
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
David Stock & Co Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer to that company mainly as David Stock.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ss employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to David 
Stock which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr S was 40 years old, married and with two dependent children and one young 
adult child. He was described as being in good health and at the time.
Mr and Mrs S lived in a home which was rented. Mr S worked in the steel industry 
and Mrs S worked part-time.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ss BSPS was approximately 
£250,803. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mr S had joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS ceasing new contributions. 
In common with a number of similar David Stock clients of that time, it seems Mr S had 
several advice sessions with the business in the autumn of 2017 until his pension was 
eventually transferred in early 2018. 
The business set out its advice initially in a suitability report in November 2017. There were 
further discussions about the types of investments he might move his funds into. Ultimately, 
David Stock recommended that Mr S transfer away to a personal pension and use a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM) to manage his funds and fund selection in the future. 
David Stock facilitated this and said this would allow Mr S to achieve his objectives. Mr S 
accepted this advice and so transferred out. 
In November 2021 Mr S complained to David Stock about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. He was sent a final response letter 
(FRL) by the business in December 2021. David Stock said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and was acting on the financial objectives Mr S had at the time. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our Service in April 2022 which is within the six months 
allowed from the FRL. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said it should 
be upheld. 
As this complaint cant be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of David Stock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, David Stock should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ss best interests. I have also carefully considered the FRL 
from David Stock. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made to the 
points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Financial viability 
David Stock referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr S was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
David Stock said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the 
BSPS, was 4.56% if Mr S took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a tax-free 
lump sum, the adviser implied the critical yield would be slightly lower but there was no 
apparent analysis or accurate critical yield to evidence this. David Stock also didnt calculate 
a critical yield rate for an earlier retirement as there was nothing to say Mr S had expressed 
a desire to retire early. However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a very 
long way off for Mr S.
Ive also noted that David Stocks analysis was somewhat out of date in that it was making 
comparisons with the old BSPS. Its true there were still final points yet to be agreed 
regarding the new pension scheme (BSPS2). But by the time this advice was given, in 
November 2017, much more about the BSPS2 was known and David Stock was able to 
update things like the original BSPS critical yield rates which would have probably been 
calculated some weeks or months before. Im also aware David Stock was advising a 
number of clients in very similar situations, so I think the analysis here should have been 
updated in order to provide Mr S with as much information as he needed to make an 
informed choice. 
In 2017 we were in a period of sustained low interest rates and bond yields. And I dont think 
that there was any sound evidence that achieving enough growth outside the DB scheme, to 
make transferring financially viable, was ever going to be achievable over a sustained 
period. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.6% per year for just over 24 years to retirement (age 65). Ive also kept in mind that 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. Ive seen there were quite similar growth assumptions 
from the fund provider which was being considered suitable for Mr S. For example, its low-
end growth assumption was also 2% and the medium rate was 5%.
At the time, David Stock assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk (ATR) as moderate. However, I 
think Mr S was a very inexperienced investor. Theres nothing showing he owned any shares 
at the time and theres reliable documentary evidence that he didnt want to accept much 
investment risk. His overall financial assets appeared very modest and he was renting a 
family home, as opposed to owning one at the time. Ive seen nothing showing that Mr S had 
any investment experience at all to draw upon. So, when thinking about investing this 
amount of money, I dont think the adviser categorised Mr Ss ATR correctly. Overall, the 
assessment of his financial circumstances and wealth seems very weak to me and I dont 
think Mr S had much capacity for loss. 
Against this backdrop I think the ATR, if correctly applied, was more likely to be a low 
rating. Mr S may well have answered some generic questions about risk on a pre-formatted 
form, but the advisers role was to interpret this together with Mr Ss real-life situation. I 
therefore think any reasonable risk assessment of Mr S  a person with absolutely no 
investment experience or history - should have been applied in a more conservative manner.
With all this in mind, I dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to 
recommend transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. 
Growth assumptions close to the regulators lower-end projections and also to the discount 
rate were most relevant here in my view. So, I think growth assumptions of around 2 -to-4 
% were realistic here. Whilst this was near to the critical yield figure for the BSPS, there is no 
clear evidence that by transferring away hed be financially better off. In fact, its very 
important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal 
pension such as the one being recommended to Mr S, would have further reduced the likely 
growth. Mr S was being charged fees by David Stock  and there were fund and 
management charges yet to come from the recommended DFM. These were all additional 
costs that I think Mr S would have found very difficult to work out. With a DB scheme he 
didnt have these costs. 
So, I think all this showed there would be a very real drag on performance. To even match 
the published critical yield rates, Mr Ss investments would need to exceed beyond what I 
think David Stock was telling him. Overall, I think that achieving the stated and unstated 
critical yield figure(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely when looked at 
through the prism of 2017. 
In my view, there would be little point in irreversibly transferring away from a DB scheme at 
the age of 40 to obtain lower  or even similar benefits  to that scheme. There would be still 
less reason to take that course of action after deducting the fees and charges. These things 
all clearly implied growth level outside the DB scheme would probably be lower. So there 
was a very real risk of Mr Ss pension benefits being lower at retirement than they otherwise 
would be.
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, David Stocks own transfer analysis said that even 
in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the benefits provided by 
the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £367,735. These figures are 
found in David Stocks own analysis based on data the regulator required businesses to 
refer to at the time. To be clear, the sum above was to buy a much inferior pension. And 
because this was far above Mr Ss CETV, it represents, in my view, a revealing window into 
the value of the guaranteed pension Mr S could be giving up by transferring away to a 
personal plan, rather than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, David Stock also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. David Stock said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and I dont think Mr S would have wanted to transfer 
to this scheme. Again, there were no critical yields for retiring earlier and I reiterate that the 
effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being 
recommended to Mr S, would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, David Stocks 
own figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr S would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the option of the BSPS2. 
Ive also considered some projections David Stock used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr S well into retirement. Again, I think most of 
these were based on growth projections which were based on past performance and they 
ran out at certain ages. Its also fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What 
David Stock was showing Mr S were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees 
and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to David Stock, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme options alone. Rather, David Stock said Mr S also had other reasons to transfer 
away, so Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer 
was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Other reasons to transfer
David Stock recommended and transacted a transfer to a personal pension plan based on 
what it said were Mr Ss wider objectives. These werent comprehensively listed by the 
adviser. Overall, I think the suitability report was a poor document. This was the advisers 
opportunity to set out clearly what the options were and the rationale behind any 
recommendations that were being made. In my view, it lacked clarity. But I have used all the 
documents we still have from the advice sessions to summarise the following themes as 
supporting the recommendation to transfer away. 
David Stock said that by transferring, he could have greater flexibility and control over his 
pension. This included enabling the full value of any pension fund being inherited as a death 
benefit tax-free. Mr S was also clearly worried about the financial security of the DB 
scheme(s) on offer. I have therefore considered all these and other issues. 
Mr Ss age
I think its important to focus for a moment here on Mr Ss comparatively young age by 
pension standards. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr S had no concrete plans 
whatsoever for his retirement. With over 24 years still left to when hed be actually 
contemplating retiring if using his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might possibly 
use the money for, or how much he thought he might need, should have been major 
influences in him deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved 
an investment risk which Ive showed above could mean lower overall financial benefits at 
retirement. 
Flexibility The advice said, the flexibility of a personal pension has an enormous pull. However, I 
think the concept of flexibility was no more than a standard objective used to help justify the 
recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. In my view, the suitability report wasnt 
personalised enough to Mr Ss particular circumstances. 
In fact, I cant see that Mr S required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser 
suggested. In any event, flexibility was poorly defined. For example, Ive seen nothing that 
showed Mr S required changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. I dont think 
this could have been predicted whilst still so far away from retirement age. He already had a 
new and more flexible DC pension with the new TATA DC fund. This was being substantially 
contributed towards by both Mr S and his employer and still had up to 24 years left to run. 
So, this other pension would have afforded Mr S any flexibility he might have needed in the 
years ahead.
On this specific point, I think the suitability report was very unclear. It even said at one point 
that our reaction is to generally dissuade you, as to an extent that is our role, and to 
highlight the major disadvantage of managing your own pension. I take this to mean that 
the adviser themselves had some reservations  but went on, nonetheless, to recommend 
that Mr S ought to transfer to a specific product overseen by a DFM. 
However, Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr S wouldnt want to continue membership of a 
DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr S could have been in a relatively 
good financial position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of 
considerable value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes 
normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant 
indexation guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by 
the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long 
period of time  up to 24 years. So, if Mr S ever found he needed any flexibility, then hed be 
able to use his DC scheme, rather than transferring away from the BSPS.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr S had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr S was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr S himself had no experience of these types of money market investments. I accept that 
he may have had a very basic understanding of pensions and he also had his new DC 
pension with TATA. But Ive seen nothing showing the investment strategy for this DC 
pension was anything other than an off the shelf mix of investments commonly found in 
most company DC schemes. So, I think he would have found the complexity, scale and 
responsibility of managing over £250,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years 
ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr S would have required ongoing financial advice and 
support, all of which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
David Stock itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this 
showed a reasonable income in retirement. However, Ive already explained the 
unpredictability of assessing retirement needs so far in advance and at such a relatively 
young age. Mr S might have even speculated that he might need a certain amount of annual 
pension when he retired, cited in todays money. However, in my view this could only ever 
be guesswork because retirement was decades away for Mr S. 
I think Mr and Mrs S were likely to have normal growing costs to pay in the years ahead; 
they still had dependent children and Im sure they also would have wanted to help their 
children as much as possible as they became young adults. Ive also noted they rented a 
property rather than owned one so I think this added a degree of uncertainty for them. And Mr S, in my view, could also realistically be said only to be in mid-career. All these things 
are just examples  but I think they demonstrate how Mr and Mrs S had many years of 
family life and its challenges still ahead. Theres simply no reason for me to address any 
estimated retirement income in these circumstances or whether this was considered 
correctly during the advice sessions. This is because this was all so far away in the future. In 
reality, no-one could yet predict what their retirement would look like. Transferring was 
clearly unsuitable whilst still only in their early 40s. 
I therefore think Mr Ss circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him being able to build a pathway in the years ahead to retiring earlier than 65 if he felt he 
really needed to. There would have been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his 
age at the time. And because Mr S had another pension too, there was the capacity for him 
to increase contributions to this new DC scheme. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr S died. Mr S was married and had children so I think 
the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension 
provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs S if he predeceased her. Mrs S had 
brought up three children and theres no evidence her own pension provision was large. I 
therefore dont think David Stock made the value of this spouse benefit clear enough. This 
was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I think the adviser told Mr S that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal pension, 
potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated and that a DB pension was more restrictive in 
this regard. So, the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was 
probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr S. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think David Stock explored 
to what extent Mr S was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
Mr S was still only 40 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr S had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
I cant say if, or to what extent, life insurance was discussed here. But at 40 years old, a 
term life insurance policy would have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr S really 
did want to leave a large lump sum legacy, rather than an annual pension, for a specific 
relative or someone other than a spouse. I have to say there isnt any evidence this was ever 
the case. But in any event, it doesnt appear that David Stock took into account the fact that 
Mr S could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other DC scheme. Its 
easy to dismiss this because at the time this had only really just started. But this DC pension 
would have seen decades of contributions in the times ahead. So, to this end, Mr S already 
had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him. There was no need 
to transfer.Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. I think this 
objective was no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Ss situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr S, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
David Stock said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and David Stock said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr S was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was David Stocks obligation to give Mr S an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that David Stock 
should have reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr S through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to David Stocks recommendation to Mr S to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Use of a DFM and suitability of investments
David Stock recommended that Mr S invest his funds in a personal pension and use a DFM 
to manage them. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr S and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of 
the scheme if clear advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised 
to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. 
Ive noted that in many of the documents Ive seen in this case, David Stock attempts to 
distance itself from overall responsibility by implying that Mr S was told about the risks of 
transferring and that it was him who was driving the transferring agenda. However, I think its 
important to remember that it was David Stock that was the regulated party here, not Mr S. 
He wasnt an experienced investor and so he went to David Stock with a reasonable 
expectation that he would be advised by someone with the knowledge and experience to 
recommend what was in his best interests. He was also paying a significant sum for this 
advice.
So, David Stocks job as the regulated firm wasnt simply to transact what Mr S  an 
inexperienced amateur  might have thought was a good idea. The advisers job here was to really understand his circumstances and make clear recommendations with associated 
rationale behind them. I think David Stock comprehensively failed to do this in Mr Ss case. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr S was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
I therefore dont think it was in Mr Ss best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. On this basis, I 
think David Stock should have advised Mr S to opt into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr S still had 
many more years before he intended to retire and it was far too early to predict what his 
retirement might look like. I don't think that it would have been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be 
offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. But by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr S would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr S would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that David Stock disclosed some of 
the risks of transferring to Mr S, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr S to transfer out, and I think Mr S relied on that advice. Im not 
persuaded that Mr S would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
David Stocks advice. He was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for 
virtually all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if David Stock had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think David Stock should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for David Stocks unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. David Stock 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
David Stock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
David Stock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr S and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what David Stock based 
the inputs into the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ss 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, David Stock should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts David Stocks offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, David Stock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that David Stock should pay Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr S in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr S. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience. David Stock should pay Mr S this amount in addition to the redress Ive 
set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct David Stock 
& Co Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
David Stock & Co Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on David Stock & Co 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman