DRN-4367844
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun life) 
has delayed in paying his claim and provided incorrect and misleading information about the 
amount and benefits payable.
What happened
Mr C had income protection, critical illness and other policies with Sun Life which he took out 
in 1999 and 2000.
In 2022 Mr C contacted Sun Life to make a claim on his critical illness policy as he had been 
diagnosed with cancer. He complained that Sun Life took too long to settle his claim and 
gave him incorrect and misleading information at an already worrying and stressful time. 
Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint. During our investigation, Sun Life paid the claim and made an offer to 
resolve matters. Our investigator found Sun Lifes offer to pay 8% simple interest plus £500 
compensation for distress and inconvenience was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C disagreed and said he didnt think Sun Life were being truthful about his benefits and 
said he wanted an Ombudsmans decision. Specifically, Mr C said he was told he had two 
critical illness policies and was due a substantial and life changing amount only to be later 
told that he only had one policy and would receive half the amount he was promised.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer made by Sun Life is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mr C submitted a claim in August 2022. By 19 December 2022 Sun Life had received 
the documents it needed from Mr Cs GP. It then assessed the claim on 28 
December 2022 but didnt pay until May 2023. Sun Life has offered to pay 8% 
interest from 28 December 2022 to the date it was paid. I think this is reasonable as it 
takes into account the time Mr C was without the money and also that Sun Life 
couldnt have made a decision without the documents from the GP. I cant hold Sun 
Life responsible for the GPs delay. 
Sun Life also increased its offer of compensation for distress and inconvenience from 
£250 to £500. This was for the error it made in telling Mr C that he was due nearly 
twice as much money as he actually was. Sun Life incorrectly told Mr C that he had 
two critical illness policies. I think the £500 offer takes into consideration his loss of 
expectation and the significant disappointment he would have felt when Sun Life told 
him it had made an error. I have checked the policy information provided and Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr C had two critical illness policies. Sun Life explained it had 
made a mistake and it was a different policy and benefit Mr C had which the adviser 
had mistaken for a second critical illness policy. 
Mr C doesnt accept what Sun Life says and has asked for the telephone calls to be 
sent to him. Sun life confirmed it would send the calls to Mr C. I have listened to the 
calls and it is clear that Mr C was only expecting one critical illness policy benefit but 
the adviser made a mistake. If a mistake is made, Sun Life should put Mr C back in 
the position he would have been in had the mistake not occurred. In this case, had 
the mistake not occurred, Sun Life would have correctly explained to Mr C that he 
was due one critical illness insurance benefit payment and I have noted that this has 
been paid. In addition he has been offered some compensation for the effect of the 
mistake plus interest for the time he had to wait for the payment.
Overall, I think Sun Lifes offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K)s offer 
is reasonable and so I direct it to pay £500 compensation plus 8% simple interest on the 
sum due calculated from 28 December 2022 to the date of payment. 
If Sun Life considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman