DRN-3125114
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 7 February, Mr and Mrs R took out a single-trip travel insurance policy through a broker. 
The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs Rs policy covered them between 
21 March and 3 April 2020 and was intended to cover a cruise they planned to take. The 
policy included an optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE). Subsequently, on 12 March 
2020, Mr R called the broker to declare a new medical condition, which Great Lakes agreed 
to cover for an additional premium. In total, Mr and Mrs R paid £705.55 for the policy, which 
included a discount of £28.28.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the UK government advised against cruise 
holidays for vulnerable people on 12 March 2020. So Mr and Mrs R cancelled their cruise 
that day and received a refund of their cancellation costs from the cruise operator. They got 
in touch with Great Lakes to cancel their policy and request a refund of their premium.
Great Lakes didnt offer to pay Mr and Mrs R a cash refund of their premium. Ultimately, it 
offered them a pro-rata credit voucher for the unused portion of their policy, which could be 
put towards a new policy. This refund didnt include a pro-rata amount for the TDE. Great 
Lakes said the voucher was worth £183.42 and would be valid for 36 months.
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our adjudicator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the policy started on 7 February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs R a credit voucher, which took into account the 
unused cover remaining on the policy. But she didnt think Great Lakes had calculated the 
offer fairly, so she asked Great Lakes to recalculate the offer to include a pro-rata refund for 
the TDE. She felt the refund should be calculated from the date the cruise holiday had been 
cancelled on 12 March 2020, rather than the date Great Lakes had originally used. And she 
thought Great Lakes should recalculate the pro-rata refund due by using the actual price Mr 
and Mrs R paid for their policy, divided by the total length of the policy and multiplied by the 
days that werent used. She didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive 
though. Overall, she didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr and Mrs R a cash refund of 
their premium.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, they referred to 
the fact that theyd been given a quote for a single trip policy to cover their trip through the 
same broker around eight months before they went on to take out cover in February 2020. 
This quote had been significantly higher. Based on this quote, they calculated what they 
thought was the monthly price of cancellation cover. They felt that Great Lakes hadnt 
demonstrated that there wasnt a material unevenness in the incidence of risk across the life 
of the policy. They queried whether wed seen evidence of Great Lakes claims experience 
to confirm this point. They didnt feel the additional premium Mr R had paid for a new 
medical condition on the same day the trip was cancelled should be included in the pro-rata 
calculation. And they provided evidence that unfortunately, Mrs R had suffered a serious 
illness which they said meant that they were unlikely to be in a position to travel again.
Great Lakes reviewed all of the available evidence. It agreed to refund Mr Rs full additional 
premium of £58.44 in cash. Thats because given Mr R paid the premium and cancelled the 
trip on the same day, technically, Great Lakes had never been on-risk for the new condition. 
And given Mrs Rs health, it agreed to pay a pro-rata cash refund of £261.11 for the unused 
portion of the original policy.
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, I think Great Lakes current 
settlement offer is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
In this case, its clear that the original policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and 
so there is no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes 
to offer a refund of premium. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay 
any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling off period has ended. In this case, 
Mr and Mrs Rs cooling-off period ended on 21 February 2020. But the policy wasnt 
effectively cancelled until 12 March 2020. So the cancellation was clearly outside of the 14 
day cooling off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion 
and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as an exceptional circumstance. I think this policy term 
most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  such as 
bereavement. This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs contract with Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of premiums. 
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
(as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19 and Mrs Rs ill health. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer 
of a cash refund for the unused portion of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, including the TDE, is fair 
and reasonable. And given the trip wasnt cancelled until 12 March 2020, I think its fair that 
the date of the cancellation of the holiday is used to calculate the refund on the facts of this 
case 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for the core policy for a 57-day period and 23 days for 
the new medical condition Mr R declared on 12 March 2020, if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The refund of £261.11 represents the unused 23 days of cover, after the core 
policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr and Mrs R 
making a claim after that point. The additional refund amount of £58.44 represents the full 
amount Mr R paid on 12 March 2020 for his new medical condition. Thats because Great 
Lakes acknowledges that given the trip was cancelled on the same day Mr R paid the 
additional premium, it didnt bear any risk for that condition.
And Great Lakes has also agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price paid 
for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk. Im satisfied 
that this now leads to a fair outcome.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R have concerns about the calculation and in particular, how Great 
Lakes chooses to apportion risk across the life of the policy. I accept they were quoted a 
higher price some months before their trip. But I dont think that makes a difference to the 
outcome. I say that because premium quotations can fluctuate rapidly, based on live data, 
including current claims experience. And Great Lakes says that at the point of Mr and Mrs 
Rs initial quote, the policy was underwritten by a different insurer, which could also have 
accounted for price differentials. I dont think this is persuasive evidence of the broad 
monthly price Great Lakes charges for cancellation cover.
It's clear Mr and Mrs R arent persuaded Great Lakes has sufficiently demonstrated that 
there isnt a material unevenness in the way it apportions risk. Ive considered this. In my 
experience, Great Lakes doesnt break down the premium for the basic policy or the 
additional cover options into cancellation and post-departure cover. And also in my 
experience, Great Lakes hasnt demonstrated that theres a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance contracts. 
An insurer is entitled to decide how it assesses the risk of a claim, taking into account factors 
such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims arising and 
its own commercial interests. Its also entitled to decide what price to charge to cover that 
risk. Thats as long as it treats its customers fairly and doesnt single them out in any way.
In this case, Im satisfied that Great Lakes has calculated the refund in the same way it 
would for any of its other customers in the same situation. This means I dont think Great 
Lakes has singled out Mr and Mrs R in any way or treated them unfairly.
Overall, I find that Great Lakes current offer of settlement is fair and reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable. 
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the pro-rata cash refund due to Mr and Mrs R 
by dividing the actual price they paid on 7 February 2020 for their annual travel insurance 
policy, including the Travel Disruption Extension, by the total cover length (in days) multiplied 
by days not on risk. And I direct it to pay a full cash refund of the additional premium of 
£58.44 which Mr R paid Great Lakes on 12 March 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman