DRN-3572016
The complaint
Mr A complains Monzo Bank Ltd unfairly closed his account and wont tell him why.
What happened
Mr A held a Monzo bank account. In March 2021 Monzo gave him two months notice that 
his account would close. Mr A was unhappy about their decision and asked why, but they 
refused to tell him. 
Monzo offered £30 for Mr A not being able to contact them over the phone when he should 
have been able to, but they said they were entitled to close his account. Mr A believes the 
decision to close his account was discriminatory. 
Our investigator concluded Monzo hadnt treated Mr A unfairly. They said Monzo could close 
his account and they didnt need to tell him why. Their decision wasnt discriminatory, and 
they followed their terms and conditions by giving him two months notice. Mr A may want to 
look at his credit report or contact Cifas to see if there is anything reported against him. 
Mr A asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide. He thinks Monzo should be required to reveal why his account was closed, and he 
shouldnt have been given an account in the first place if they were going to close it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why. 
Monzo have the commercial discretion to close customer accounts. Here, they closed Mr As 
accounts by giving two months notice, so they complied with their terms and conditions. I 
understand why Mr A wants to know Monzos reason(s)  it cant be pleasant to be told 
youre no longer wanted as a customer. But banks dont need to communicate information 
which they consider commercially sensitive, which includes their reasons for closing 
accounts. 
I have treated what Monzo have told me in confidence  a power afforded to me under the 
dispute resolution rules (DISP) which set our services jurisdiction and evidential powers. So, 
I wont be revealing the reason(s) why they closed the account by virtue of Mr A bringing this 
complaint. 
Monzo cant close an account for unlawful or plainly improper reasons. So, closing an 
account based on someones race would not be fair. Ive no reason to doubt Mr A genuinely 
believes the decision to close his account was discriminatory. And, Ive noted that he thinks 
Monzo made unfair assumptions about him based on his name, potentially in relation to the 
hawala system which he doesnt use. But I have considered the basis of Monzos decision 
and Im satisfied Mr A hasnt been treated differently to someone who doesnt share his 
background or otherwise disadvantaged because of his background. 
I find their reason(s) properly sit(s) within their commercial freedom. Im not persuaded by Mr 
As point that Monzo shouldnt have given him the account in the first place. Banks can 
decide to open and close accounts, just as their customers can. They are entitled to review 
customer relationships and discontinue them, as situations and commercial considerations 
can change over time.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman