DRN-4366531
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided poor customer service when he 
reported transactions he didnt recognise on his account.  
What happened
Mr T is unhappy with the level of customer service provided from HSBC, while investigating 
six disputed transactions in May 2023. He said it originally refunded the transactions, which 
totalled just over £30, but then later re-debited some of the transactions without his 
knowledge. He said that when he called up to query this, he had to spend an excessive 
amount of time dealing with the dispute, was transferred to multiple departments and felt that 
HSBC blamed him for not responding to a letter that he hadnt received. 
HSBC said that it had investigated the original disputed transactions and that the merchant 
had provided evidence that the transactions were genuine. It attempted to send Mr T a letter, 
informing him that it would be re-debiting the account and provided him a window of 
opportunity to challenge if needed. HSBC then re-debited the account. 
When Mr T noticed the re-debits, he contacted HSBC again, unhappy that some of the 
disputed transactions had been repaid to the merchant. After a number of conversations, 
HSBC discovered that the letter to Mr T didnt have an address on it, so Mr T could not have 
received a copy. It therefore accepted that he hadnt been able to challenge it. As a result, 
as a gesture of goodwill, it refunded all of the disputed transactions, the transaction fees and 
the overdraft interest that had been charged when it re-debited. It also paid £100 
compensation for the upset the situation had caused him.
Mr T didnt feel that this was proportionate for the level of inconvenience and distress he had 
been caused, so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. He understood why Mr T was unhappy but thought HSBC had done enough in 
the circumstances. 
Mr T remained unhappy, stating that the compensation was inadequate and that he was still 
concerned further funds could be taken by the merchant, so the complaint was passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
I understand how strongly Mr T feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points 
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything he has said 
but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr T didnt receive the letter that would have given him the opportunity to dispute the 
merchants submissions and the dispute was then closed. As this was due to an error on 
HSBCs part, I think it is fair that HSBC provided a refund of the disputed transactions and 
any associated costs. 
Mr T was also unhappy with the customer service that had been provided. Amongst other 
issues, he complained that he was being passed around to different staff members and felt 
blamed for what had happened. I can imagine that this was extremely frustrating and 
upsetting in an already stressful situation. 
I was pleased to see that once HSBC discovered its error, it apologised, acknowledging that 
the customer service should have been better and awarded £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. While I understand that Mr T doesnt feel that this is sufficient, having 
reviewed everything Mr T has mentioned, I think this amount is fair under the circumstances. 
Mr T is also concerned further funds could be taken by the merchant. I understand why this 
would be a concern. HSBC have informed me that his original card was blocked in May 2023 
and a new card issued to Mr T, which should help secure his account. It also confirmed no 
further transactions have been attempted by the merchant. I hope this goes some way to 
reassuring Mr T. 
My final decision
The bank has already made an offer to settle this complaint. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc does not need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman