DRN-4139680
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he bought on finance with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (Audi Finance), wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr H entered a hire purchase agreement with Audi Finance for a used car. 
The car was just over a year old and had travelled 18,136 miles at the point of supply. The 
cash price was £26,775, Mr H made an advanced payment of £8,478.59 and agreed to 
make 47 monthly payments, with an optional £10,758.75 balloon payment, if he wanted to 
keep the car.
Within a week of having the car Mr H said the multimedia infotainment system stopped 
working and he experienced intermittent problems with the cruise control. The car was 
returned to the dealership for repairs between 13 April to 22 April 2022.
In June 2022 Mr H reported he was still experiencing issues with the cruise control and also 
problems with the gearbox and SOS system. The car was taken to his local main dealership 
who had the car for a few weeks for repair. In July 2022 the car was returned to the same 
local dealership due to a problem with the driver door seal which was replaced. 
 
Mr H returned the car to the local dealership on 23 August 2022, because the replacement 
driver door seal had become loose. Mr H also reported that he was still having intermittent 
problems with the gearbox and the cruise control. The door seal was replaced again, but the 
dealer couldnt replicate the intermittent problems with the gearbox or cruise control. At the 
time the recorded mileage was 24,659.
Mr H was provided with a courtesy car for all but one visit back to the local dealership.
Mr H contacted Audi Finance in September 2022, he had lost confidence in the car and 
wanted to reject it. He also wanted his deposit back and asked for all his monthly instalments 
to be refunded.
 
In its final response in November 2022 Audi Finance accepted the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and agreed to accept rejection of the car. It offered to refund Mr Hs deposit and 
agreed to pay him £250 compensation to reflect the stress and inconvenience caused. Mr H 
was unhappy with the offer, he didnt think Audi Finance should be able to retain any of his 
monthly payments. 
Audi Finance said Mr H had agreed an annual mileage of 15,000 (pro rata 1,250 miles per 
month), but had still managed to cover 6,527 miles, an average of 1,450 miles per month 
between the point of supply and 9 August 2022. Audi Finance said it wouldnt refund Mr Hs 
payments because despite the problems, hed had significant usage of the car and achieved 
more than the expected monthly average mileage.
Unhappy with Audis response Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Mr H said the car 
had developed further electrical problems. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. He thought that Audi Finances offer was fair, he didnt think it needed to refund 
any of Mr Hs monthly repayments because he had got significant usage of the car and 
thought it was fair that he paid for this.
Mr H disagreed, he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. In April 2023 Mr H 
provided a photograph of his current 32,425 mileage.
On 24 April 2023 I issued a provisional decision saying I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I said the parties appeared to agree the car had faults when it was supplied, and 
these faults meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality. In the circumstances I thought Audi 
Finance needed to do more to put things right. 
As Mr H was driving the car with ongoing intermittent issues, I thought it was fair for Audi 
Finance to retain some money for Mr Hs use but refund him 15% of his monthly repayments 
(plus 8% simple interest per year) to reflect his impaired use. And since Audi Finance hadnt 
previously offered to refund any part of Mr Hs monthly instalments, I said the 8% simple 
interest should be paid from the date of the payment until the date of settlement.
Audi Finance had already agreed to refund Mr Hs deposit, but I thought it should add 8% 
simple interest to this payment, in line with our approach to add interest where a consumer is 
deprived of money. I said Audi Finance should pay the 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of the payment until the date it offered to refund the deposit in November 2022.
I thought Audi Finances offer to pay Mr H £250 compensation to reflect the inconvenience 
and frustration caused by having to return the car to the garage on a few occasions was fair.
I gave both parties an opportunity to comment on what I said. Mr H was happy with my 
provisional decision and accepted it. Audi Finance, didnt reply, despite further contact from 
our investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H accepted my provisional decision and Audi Finance hasnt responded, I see no 
reason to make any changes to the conclusions reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and I instruct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to:
cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr H
refund the deposit together with 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date it offered to refund the deposit on 9 November 2022 
refund 15% of the instalments Mr H made, adding 8% simple interest per annum to 
that refund from the date of the payment until the date of settlement
pay Mr H £250 compensation
remove any negative information it may have recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation 
to this agreement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman