DRN-2904179
The complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In 2017, Mr W acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £24,118.82. Mr W was required to make an advance 
payment of £226.35, 47 monthly payments of £310.33 and there was a final optional 
payment of £9,306.96 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr W had the right to terminate the agreement at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the 
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this 
was £12,059.41.
In 2019, Mr W chose to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early. 
After Mr W handed the car back, BMWFS charged him a further £1,702.50 as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr W had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge him 5.55 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr W didnt think this charge was enforceable so referred the matter to our service for 
investigation.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage 
charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around 
the possibility of an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable 
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ws agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Ws accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £1,702.50.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess 
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amount. 
Mr W disagreed, but the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind. Therefore, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
In disagreeing with the investigators view Mr W made reference to the case of:
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited v Estrella Cahalane
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Mr W use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£9,306.96. While Mr W was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum 
mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr W not meet those requirements.
Mr W exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more. 
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges are due. In this case Mr W accepts that he was required to pay at least £12,059.41 to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £1,702.50 that has 
been added on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr Ws hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in 
his case, that was £12,059.41. Various sections of the agreement Mr W had with BMWFS 
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase the final liability.
I note that Mr W refers to the case of Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited v 
Estrella Cahalane in support of his view that lenders arent legally entitled to charge for 
exceeding a mileage allowance. 
Ive read the transcript provided by Mr W in respect of this case, but Im not persuaded it 
helps him.  
This is because whether or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to 
every case, as it will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In 
other words, what Ive to decide is has the agreement Mr W entered into, rather than what 
another party might have entered into with another business, been constructed in a way as 
to allow the charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA 
regarding voluntary termination? In Mr Ws specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination arent affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr W is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ws hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage 
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that 
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance 
will be reduced to reflect the shorter period of hire and that your obligation to pay any 
excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mr Ws 
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary 
sets out that so long as Mr W has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding 
the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr W. 
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr W is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  Mr W says that BMWFS is unfairly reporting arrears on his credit file in relation to his 
agreement and has sold the outstanding balance in respect of it on to a third party. However, 
as Mr W hasnt paid all the sums which fell due when he terminated the agreement early, I 
cant reasonably say that what BMWFS is reporting is either inaccurate, unfair or 
unreasonable or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in selling the outstanding balance on 
to a third party.  
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman