DRN-3709456
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Brian Thornhill & Son Insurance Brokers Limited (BTS)
provided incorrect information when they tried to find out if their business interruption
insurance policy would cover a claim for Covid-19.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J held business interruption insurance cover through BTS. They called BTS on
25 February 2020 to ask if they would be covered for losses caused by Covid-19. BTS 
replied to say there was an element of cover and directed Mr and Mrs J to the business
interruption insurance section of their policy.
On 26 February 2020, Mr and Mrs J contacted BTS again as they couldnt see that they 
were covered. Mr and Mrs J said that BTS said it didnt know if there was cover so it would 
speak to the insurer and get back to them. However, BTS didnt respond.
Mr and Mrs J said that they tried to contact BTS again a number of times between 13 and 17
March 2020 without reply. On 17 March 2020 BTS replied to say there wouldnt be cover for
a claim due Covid-19.
Mr and Mrs J ultimately complained to BTS as they said BTS had provided misleading
information in telling them they were covered. Mr and Mrs J thought BTS should honour the
information it had given and pay for their losses as it had prevented Mr and Mrs J from
securing cover elsewhere.
BTS said it hadnt told Mr and Mrs J that there was cover. It said it didnt know how an
insurer would consider the terms within the policy and so had pointed Mr and Mrs J to the
terms of the policy. BTS said it would have been unable to secure cover anyway as insurers
offering cover had withdrawn from the market and cover for pandemics was only offered by
insurers offering bespoke policies. BTS said February and March 2020 had been a
particularly busy time but accepted there had been some delay in responding, although it
didnt think any delay had caused Mr and Mrs J a loss. BTS offered Mr and Mrs J £2,500 on
a without prejudice basis to resolve things.
Mr and Mrs J turned down BTSs offer of £2,500 and brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Js complaint but didnt recommend BTS do
anything further. He thought the email BTS sent on 25 February 2020 should have been 
clearer but didnt think that Mr and Mrs J would most likely have got cover elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs J asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said that as BTS had made a
mistake and confirmed they had cover it should compensate them to the value of the claim.
BTS clarified that it had withdrawn its offer of £2,500. It said this had been offered in an
attempt to resolve the complaint and not because it thought it had provided misleading
information.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 September 2022. In that decision I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr and Mrs Js business. However, Im not going to require BTS to compensate
them for their financial losses. Ill explain why.
The questions Ive needed to consider are whether BTS made any errors and, if so, whether
the errors caused Mr and Mrs J a loss they wouldnt otherwise have had. Mr and Mrs J have
made a number of detailed points. Id like to reassure them that I have considered them all
but Im not going to address them all in this decision and instead will focus on what I
consider to be the central issues in this complaint. I also dont intend to repeat the very
detailed timeline provided by Mr and Mrs J as its well known to both parties.
Ive considered the email BTS sent to Mr and Mrs J on 25 February 2020 and I think BTS
intended to point to the business interruption insurance section of cover within the policy. I
think this was a reasonable thing to do given the uncertainty at the time about how insurers
would consider claims under the policy. However, I think it wasnt worded as clearly as it
could have been and left things open to interpretation. I can understand why Mr and Mrs J
interpreted the email to indicate that there was some cover for Covid-19.
I can see why Mr and Mrs J were uncertain about the answer BTS gave but I dont think that
any lack of clarity in this email was the cause of their loss. I say that because they read the
wording in the policy and said they couldnt see that they were covered. So they got back in
touch on 26 February 2020 and were told that BTS didnt know if they were covered or not.
So, I think by this date they had been informed that BTS didnt know if there was cover.
I can see that, following this, Mr and Mrs J tried to find out further information from BTS, but
they didnt find out that they wouldnt be covered until 17 March 2020. BTS said it was a
particularly busy time given the emergence of Covid-19, but it accepts that there were delays
in responding to Mr and Mrs Js queries. However, Im not persuaded that any delay caused
Mr and Mrs J a loss they wouldnt otherwise have had.
I accept that its possible that if Mr and Mrs J had known earlier that their policy didnt
provide cover they might have bought a policy which ultimately was found to cover the
circumstances of their claim. However, on the balance of probabilities, I am not persuaded
that would have been the case. There are several relevant factors:
BTS wouldnt have been able to amend Mr and Mrs Js policy to cover Covid-19 on
25 February 2020.
BTS didnt sell any other policies which would provide cover and would have advised
Mr and Mrs J of this.
At the time of the query, it was unclear which policies would provide cover in
the context of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Governments related actions, so Mr
and Mrs J would have been switching to a different policy in a context of significant
uncertainty.
Many insurers had started writing exclusions into their policies to make it clear that
  cover wasnt provided, and many others didnt believe their policies would provide
  cover.
Other policies might not have been as suitable for the rest of Mr and Mrs Js needs.
I understand Mr and Mrs J added an extension to a policy for another business which
  they thought would provide cover but due to an issue with their other broker they
  havent received payment for that claim.
Mr and Mrs J knew they werent covered by 17 March 2020 and could have looked           for alternative cover after that. However, they didnt buy an alternative policy.
As I dont think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J would have bought an alternative
policy which covered their claim, I dont believe they experienced a loss that they wouldnt
otherwise have had if it wasnt for any error by BTS. Therefore, Im not going to require BTS
to compensate Mr and Mrs J to the value of their claim.
I recognise that between 26 February and 17 March 2020 Mr and Mrs J found it difficult to
get an answer from BTS about whether their policy would provide cover. While I recognise
that this was a busy time for BTS and also a time of uncertainty, I do think the lack of 
response would have caused Mr and Mrs J distress and inconvenience at an uncertain time
even if I dont think it led to their financial losses.
I have considered that BTS made an offer of £2,500 but having reviewed BTSs response to
a query about this I understand it made the offer on a commercial basis in an attempt to
resolve the complaint. This is more than I would award in the circumstances so Im not going
to require BTS to pay that. I do, however, think £200 is a fair and reasonable amount for
BTS to pay Mr and Mrs J for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in
response.
I therefore intend to require BTS to pay Mr and Mrs J £200.
BTS responded but didnt provide any further comments. Mr and Mrs J said it was clear from 
my provisional decision that BTS had misguided them and delayed in responding. They said 
at the very least BTS should stand by its offer of £2,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Js comments, but they havent persuaded me to change my 
provisional findings. I accept that BTS made the offer of £2,500 in an attempt to resolve the 
complaint and as the amount BTS offered is more than I would award in the circumstances 
Im not going to require it to stand by its offer. 
Putting things right
I remain of the opinion that £200 is a fair and reasonable amount for BTS to pay Mr and    
Mrs J to compensate for their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Brian Thornhill & Son Insurance 
Brokers Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J £200 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman