DRN-2917688
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Asgard Financial Services Limited (trading as Sprout Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Mrs M took out a loan with Sprout Loans on 4 September 2017. She borrowed £4,500 and 
was due to repay £172.78 monthly for 48 months until 26 August 2021.
Mrs M says that she originally applied for £3,500 from Sprout Loans, but her application was 
initially declined. However, when Mrs M appealed, she says it agreed to a £4,500 loan so 
she could pay off the short-term loans it saw on her credit file. She says it took advantage of 
her because she had a poor credit rating and she ended up paying even more interest.
Sprout Loans says it did initially decline Mrs Ms application, but in response to her appeal 
one of its senior underwriters carried out a further review. On review, and after further 
discussions with Mrs M, Sprout Loans says it was satisfied the loan was affordable and was 
to be used for debt consolidation and a car repair. It added that it had evidence of Mrs Ms 
income and carried out a full review of her credit file. Sprout Loans said that all but two 
accounts were to be consolidated and Mrs Ms credit file showed excellent conduct in the 
previous 24 months, despite historic defaults. It said it was satisfied the loan was affordable, 
and did not worsen Mrs Ms financial position, and that Mrs M had made all payments on 
time so far.
Finally Sprout Loans says Mrs M had recently made it aware of financial pressures due to 
the pandemic and was happy to consider further support on that basis.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Sprout Loans carried out proportionate checks and that there was nothing to indicate the 
loan repayments were unsustainable.
Mrs M responded to say, in summary, that she was having to use money from elsewhere to 
make the loan repayments. She said that her initial loan application was for car repairs only 
and that Sprout Loans told her she needed to also clear old defaulted debts and would need 
to borrow an additional £1,000 to do so. Mrs M added that high cost loan companies should 
check bank statements before approving loans to ensure the figures declared by borrowers 
are correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Sprout Loans lent to Mrs M. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Sprout Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the initial lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did Sprout Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mrs Ms loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Sprout Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Sprout Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Mrs M applied for her loan from Sprout Loans, it asked her for information about her 
income and expenditure and carried out a credit check. Sprout Loans also verified Mrs Ms 
employment and income via payslips. It initially declined the application, but, when Mrs M 
asked it to reconsider its decision, it carried out detailed checks.
The checks showed:
The monthly repayments were around 8% of Mrs Ms monthly income;
Mrs Ms credit record did not indicate she was in current financial difficulties:
oAlthough Mrs Ms credit file showed four defaults on historical short-term 
loans, the most recent was over four years earlier and two of them had been 
satisfied in 2014;
oOf the five accounts that were in active use, all of them were up-to-date with 
their repayments;
oThere were recently closed loan accounts that had been repaid on time by 
Mrs M;
The combined settlement figure for the two outstanding defaulted accounts, a further 
short-term loan from January 2013 and a recently obtained loan was £2,525.
Sprout Loans calculated that a loan of £4,500 would enable the repayment of the four 
accounts for which Mrs M had obtained the settlement figures (Ive seen evidence that 
shows Mrs M did this) plus the sum required for car repairs.
On that basis, Mrs M would have existing credit repayments (on a credit card, and a loan 
that had 11 months to run) of around £580 per month. This meant her disposable income 
was calculated to be around £850 per month, before the new loan repayment.
So I cant see there was anything in the information Sprout Loans collected that indicated it 
should have carried out further checks or that the repayments were unaffordable to Mrs M. 
Therefore, I cant conclude Sprout Loans made an unfair lending decision.
I acknowledge Mrs M says Sprout Loans should have looked at her bank statements for 
additional security, but I cant agree this additional level of checks was proportionate to the 
circumstances of the lending. I say that because:This was Mrs Ms first loan with Sprout Loans;
It had verified Mrs Ms income;
The scheduled repayments were a relatively small proportion of Mrs Ms verified 
income;
A detailed credit check enabled Sprout Loans to assess Mrs Ms existing credit 
commitments and her recent repayment record;
Sprout Loans had asked Mrs M for a detailed breakdown of her other regular 
outgoings and there was nothing to indicate these costs had been significantly 
understated;
The calculated disposable income of around £850 indicated the monthly repayments 
of £172.78 were well within the affordable range, especially considering Mrs M was 
due to finish paying £280 per month towards her other loan in 11 months time;
Finally, I understand Mrs M told Sprout Loans in March 2020, that her income had been 
reduced by 50% due to the pandemic. Sprout Loans says it heard nothing further from 
Mrs M, and her repayments continued to be made on time, but that it may be able to offer 
support going forward if Mrs M wants to get in contact.
In summary, I cant conclude Sprout Loans made an unfair lending decision when it 
approved the loan and I cant see it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman