DRN-3550775
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Amtrust Europe Limited having applied a policy limit to his residential 
property owners insurance claim.
What happened
Mr P has an insurance policy with Amtrust, providing cover for a property he rents out. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ps property was turned into a cannabis farm and suffered significant 
damage  so he submitted a claim.
Amtrust considered Mr Ps claim and while it was accepted, they said there was a £5,000 
limit on the policy for losses resulting from illegal activities. As the damage resulted from a 
cannabis farm being set up, they said the limit would apply.
Mr P wasnt happy with that, saying he spent around £44,000 in returning the property to a 
lettable standard. He said hed not been told about the limit when the policy was sold to him, 
and he felt it was unfair in any event  because the insurer would know that this type of claim 
could cost significantly more than £5,000.
Mr P brought the matter to our service and an investigator here looked into it. They said they 
couldnt look at the mis-sale element under this case because the policy was sold by a 
different business. And he said the application of the policy limit was fair.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to open by clarifying that this decision only relates to the policy limit and not the 
sale. I understand Mr P has raised a separate complaint about the sale, against the business 
who sold him the policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Im not upholding his complaint about the policy limit, Ill 
explain why.
Insurance policies will typically have terms and conditions which will include things like policy 
limits and excesses, along with details confirming what is and isnt covered. When a claim is 
made the insurer will apply those terms and conditions when determining whether, firstly, a 
claim is covered. If it is, then other terms such as the limits and excesses will be looked at to 
establish how much is due to be paid to the policyholder.
Amtrust dealt with this claim under the illegal activities section of the policy, although it 
could possibly have been considered under malicious acts or unauthorised alterations. I 
note that all three of those sections have a limit of £5,000. For illegal activities and malicious 
acts, the limit is applied per claim. For unauthorised alterations its applied per policy period. 
The policy terms are clear.
Because of that, it cant be said the £5,000 limit shouldnt apply when establishing the claim 
settlement amount. Ive noted Mr Ps comment that insurers would know £5,000 is likely to 
be insufficient (sometimes very significantly so, as in this case) and because of that the term 
itself is unfair  and should not be applied.
While I appreciate this argument, it is for insurers to decide what limits apply. And on this 
policy, theyve decided theyre only prepared to offer up to £5,000 in circumstances such as 
those in this claim. That alone isnt unfair, provided it is clearly stated in the policy terms and 
conditions  which it is. The fact that they may be aware losses could exceed £5,000 doesnt 
make it unfair either. Indeed, it may well be why they included the limit, because they dont 
wish to be exposed to the risk of claims as large as the one made by Mr P.
This is not dissimilar to different insurers covering different things, not all policies provide the 
same cover nor do they always include what a policyholder might expect them to.
Where a policy is sold through an intermediary or broker, as happened in this instance, there 
are certain obligations on that business to highlight significant or unusual terms. But as Ive 
explained, the policy wasnt sold by Amtrust so their responsibility was to make sure their 
terms and conditions were clear.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr P has incurred a significant loss and is a victim here, it wasnt 
unfair for Amtrust to apply the policy terms and conditions in this case.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman