DRN-1851370
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the service she received from Union Reiseversicherung AG when 
she made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss P was on holiday with her boyfriend, Mr S, when she became very unwell. 
She was referred to the nearest hospital by the local clinic and, upon arrival at the hospital, 
was diagnosed with a kidney stone and infection. The hospital wanted to carry out surgery 
straight away because of the severity of the infection. She says that when she provided 
details of her insurer she was told, in summary, they were black-listed because they dont 
pay bills. 
Having spent a long time on the phone to URV Miss Ps boyfriend was told to move her to a 
public hospital and to walk out of the hospital they were in, pretending they had no money. 
They were sent to a different hospital, which was a public facility, which URV said would be 
able to treat Miss P. On arrival there Miss P was again told that hospital wouldnt work with 
URV because of issues with payment. She also said the hospital wasnt clean. Whilst waiting 
for a call from URV, Mr S took Miss P back to the local clinic. Mr S called URV and spent a 
long time trying to get through to URV and he was also placed on hold. 
URV then recommended a third hospital, this was now around 12 hours since Miss P had 
learned she needed surgery. On arriving at the third hospital Miss P was treated but Mr S 
says he was told by the hospital theyd need proof from URV theyd pay the medical 
expenses which led to further calls with URV. Miss P said that the whole experience was 
traumatic and scary for her and Mr S. Miss P complained to URV.
In their final response letter URV acknowledged that the standard of service in relation to the 
phone calls wasnt in line with their usual standards and explained that they had experienced 
a unexpectedly high volume of calls during May to June 2019 due to the Easter and Spring 
Bank Holidays. However, they acknowledged this wasnt acceptable and offered £150 
compensation. They also explained that Miss Ps policy didnt cover private medical 
treatment unless it was authorised by URV and set out their concerns that private facilities 
may not always be equipped for emergencies, have been known to provide unnecessary 
treatment at inflated prices and use bullying tactics to ensure payment upfront. Miss P 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She recommended 
URV pay a further £150 compensation as she thought they could have done more to assist 
Miss P, for example by helping with her transfer between the hospitals and by phoning 
ahead to ensure things went smoothly when she arrived. But she didnt think that the 
conduct of the hospitals was URVs fault. The investigator also clarified with URV whether 
the hospital benefit and other expenses had been paid. URV said theyd not yet received a 
claim form from Miss P and therefore it hadnt yet assessed the other expenses she was 
claiming for, such as phone bills. 
URV accepted the investigators recommendation but Miss P didnt agree. She said that the 
issue with the hospitals was a problem known to URV and there was nothing about this in 
the policy documents. She told us it was outrageous to be told not to pay the hospital, 
particularly given the situation they were in. Finally, she said that this could have had a fatal 
conclusion and she was worried about the long-term implications on her health. So, I need to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant FCA regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Your policy covers treatment at a public/state facility only  unless approved by us 
Under the section things to be aware of/remember it says: 
Your policy does not cover any costs private medical treatment unless authorised by 
us. 
Ill now explain what this means for Miss Ps complaint. 
Im upholding this complaint but Im not directing URV to pay any further compensation as I 
think the total of £300 compensation is fair. I say that because: 
I accept that Miss P had a traumatic and frightening experience. Its clear that she 
was in a lot of pain when she became ill and I dont doubt what shes said about how 
she felt during the time that she was trying to get treatment. I also appreciate what 
shes said about the potential implications of the delay in getting treatment. However, 
I can only make my decision based on what did happen, rather than what might have 
happened. Fortunately, Miss P was able to access treatment and theres no medical 
evidence to suggest that the delay has impacted on her longer-term health 
It wasnt unreasonable for URV to ask Miss P to attend a public hospital, rather than 
a private hospital. Its not uncommon for travel insurers to ask policyholders to 
access public treatment. And, whilst Miss P needed surgery, the medical evidence 
indicates she was medically stable and able to transfer to the public facility
The hospitals refusal to treat Miss P is something Id expect URV to learn from. If 
URV werent aware that their customers may not be able to access treatment in a 
number of hospitals in the area Miss P was visiting, they are now. And Id expect 
them to take any appropriate action to ensure that other customers dont face similar 
issues. But I dont have any clear evidence in this case indicating that URV were 
aware of this when Miss P took out her policy with them. So, this doesnt change my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of Miss Ps complaint 
I accept that there were failings on URVs part in this case. Its disappointing to hear 
that Miss P struggled to contact URV and spent a lot of time on hold. As a travel 
insurer Id expect URV to be suitably resourced to meet the demand of its customers, 
particularly at times of the year when it is likely to be busy. I can also understand why 
it was surprising and worrying for Miss P to hear her insurer say that she should walk 
out and pretend she didnt have money. But I note that the call handler stayed on the 
line to ensure that Miss P left safely and explained to Mr S that he could tell the 
hospital that the outstanding bills should be sent to URV
The second hospital was a public hospital which also refused to treat Miss P. She 
says that was also to do with issues between the hospital and URV relating to billing, 
although theres no independent evidence to confirm that was the case. I am aware 
that Miss P was in a lot of pain and I can understand how frustrating these additional 
delays must have been. I also think that URV could have been more proactive in 
supporting her and ensuring her admission to the second and third hospitals went as 
smoothly as possible. Had URV contacted the public hospital before sending Miss P 
there its unlikely shed have been directed there, given that the hospital said it 
wouldnt work with URV. However, I think the total award of £300 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss P by what went wrong
Mr S isnt named on the policy schedule, and therefore isnt party to the contract of 
insurance. That means Im unable to make any award for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as he wasnt a policyholderI understand that Mr S paid for some of the medical bills and that Miss P wants to 
claim for this and telephone call costs. Shell need to submit a claim form to URV 
who will then consider the claim. I havent made any finding in relation to the 
settlement of the claim in my decision. My decision relates to the service received in 
when Miss P contacted URV for emergency assistance. 
Putting things right
URV needs to pay a further £150 to Miss P bringing the total compensation to £300.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ps complaint and Im directing Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman