DRN-4126156
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down their 
buildings insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C own a holiday home which is covered by a buildings insurance policy with 
Fairmead. 
In December 2022, a pipe burst causing significant damage. A claim was made, but 
Fairmead turned this down. It said an endorsement on the policy hadnt been complied with, 
which required the heating to be left on and the loft hatch left open. Mr and Mrs C disputed 
this and brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the evidence 
supported that the heating hadnt been left on, and therefore the endorsement hadnt been 
complied with. She concluded it had been reasonable for Fairmead to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy schedule includes a number of endorsements, which take into account that the 
property was being used as a holiday home. One of those says:
Changes to the cover provided
Section One  Buildings and Section Two  Contents

Under number 4, Escape of water from and frost damage to fixed water tanks, heating 
installations, apparatus or pipes we will not pay for loss or damage between 1st November 
and 31st March (both days inclusive) once the home has been left without an occupant 
unless:
1. the Water Supply is switched off at the mains and the entire water system and central 
heating system be drained of all water;
or
2. where the entire home has the benefit of a central heating system it is set to operate 
continuously for 24 hours of each day and the thermostat set at not less than 10 
degrees Celsius/50 degrees Fahrenheit.
3. where fitted the loft hatch door is left open.
The policy defines occupant as:
A person or persons authorised by you to stay in the home
As I understand it, the property was occupied by a guest until 5 December 2022. The 
property manager inspected the property on 14 December 2022, but when he returned on 17 
December 2022, he discovered the burst pipe.
Fairmeads loss adjuster carried out an inspection of the damage, and met with the property 
manager at the house. The loss adjuster says the property manager advised that the central 
heating had been turned off. The loss adjuster observed that the loft hatch wasnt open at 
the time of the inspection.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs C were aware of the endorsement. Their representative 
says the property manager was also aware of the endorsement, and made sure the central 
heating was on continuously. The representative also says the property manager denies 
telling Fairmeads loss adjuster the heating had been turned off.
This Service is an informal dispute resolution service. Where the available evidence on a 
case is contradictory, as it is here, I need to reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I understand that the loss adjuster was aware of the endorsement before the visit took place. 
Because of this, I think the loss adjuster would have asked the property manager about the 
heating at the time of the damage and taken care to note the answer. 
The terms above are fairly common in these types of policies, and its generally accepted 
that the minimum temperature would be enough to keep pipes from freezing in low 
temperatures. Given that the pipe did burst, this does suggest that the heating hadnt been 
kept on.  
On balance, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to rely on the information given to it by 
the loss adjuster, and conclude the endorsement had been breached. Its likely the breach 
was material to the loss, and so I think it acted fairly by turning down the claim.
The loss adjuster says the loft hatch was closed at the time of the inspection. Mr and Mrs Cs 
representative has provided a video which shows that from a particular angle the loft hatch 
can appear closed but is actually open. Though I dont think this makes a difference to the 
matter, as the loss adjusters inspection took place after the event, so we dont know if the 
loft hatch was open or closed at the time of the loss. But as our investigator has said, the 
endorsement required both the loft hatch to be open and the heating to be left on. So if one 
of those wasnt done, then the endorsement was breached.  
Mr and Mrs Cs representative thinks the endorsement itself is unfair and unreasonable, as 
he says it requires the heating to be on and the loft hatch open whenever someone leaves 
the property, even if going out for a short time. 
The endorsement says it needs to be complied with when the property has been left without 
an occupant, which is someone authorised by the insured to stay in the home. I interpret that 
to mean when the property doesnt have people staying there, not each time a guest goes 
out. 
Buildings insurance policies often have exclusions in place for damage where a property is 
unoccupied. This particular policy defines unoccupied as the buildings not being lived in for 
more than 30 consecutive days. Although Mr and Mrs Cs representative thinks its unfair 
that Fairmead didnt apply this definition to the endorsement, that decision was up to Fairmead. It was covering the risk of a holiday home and wanted action to be taken when 
the property wasnt being used to reduce the risk of damage by frozen pipes. I dont think 
that was unfair, so long as the insured was made aware of it. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but I dont require Fairmead to pay the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman