Complaint
Miss O complain s that the Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifa x) incorrectly disclosed 
information about an account on w hich she is a trustee. 
Background
Miss O is a trustee on a passbook saver s account. The account was opened in 2011 for her 
sister. Shes unhappy because Halifax gave her mother information about the accou nt after 
saying she had no authority to deal with it (thi s is the subject of a separate complaint).  
Halifa x accepted it had made a mistake in disclosin g the information and offered to pa y £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Miss O didnt feel this went far enough so 
she referred h er complaint to us. 
One of our investig ators looked into what had happene d. While she agreed that Halifax had 
made a mistake, she fel t its offer of compensation was reasonable.  So she didnt think it 
needed to do anymore.  Miss O didnt agree so the complaint has been referred to me. 
 My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as 
the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Halifa x has accepted that it had acted inappropriatel y by providing information to Miss Os 
mother abo ut the a ccount. However, the error was made on only one occasion. 
I havent seen a ny evidence to suggest that this failure has resulted in a financial loss.  I 
accept the error caused some trouble and upset particularl y given that the underlying point 
Halifa x made was that Mrs O couldnt access the account beca use she wasnt entitled to. 
But I dont think the distress was so material th at it warrants more than what Halifax offered. 
Halifa x did not seek to deny it had made a mistake.  Indeed it accepted that it had acted 
inappropriately. I think the apology in the final response and £150 fairly reflects the impact 
this had. The award is intended to reflect the trouble and upset caused. So Im not going to 
ask it to do anymore. Miss O has said this isnt abo ut the issue of compensation b ut the 
principle. Ive noted this but our service ca nt punish or fine a business.  Like the investigator 
explained, Miss O can also refer matters to the Information Commissioner Office r (ICO) if 
she so wishes but this now brings to an end what we can do. 
My final decision
DRN-1043616My final decision is that what the Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) has proposed to 
do is fair and reasonable. It should pay Miss O the £150 it previously offered, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Ron Handley
Ombudsman
Ron Handley
Ombudsman