DRN-3585399
The complaint
Mr B complains Equifax Limited have said hes not on the electoral role, which has affected 
his credit file.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr B has said he first got in touch with Equifax in May 2020 regarding issues he had on the 
reporting of information on his credit file.
His specific concerns were that Equifax were reporting he wasnt on the electoral roll, but 
said hed lived at his property for 20 years  and had been on the electoral roll during this 
entire time. Mr B said rather than fixing the issue, Equifax then compounded it by recording a 
Notice of Dispute (NoD) which said creditors should use caution  something Mr B says 
made him sound even less creditworthy. 
Equifax replied to Mr Bs complaint, and said they wouldnt be upholding it, as theyd not 
been provided the relevant information by his council.
Unhappy with this, Mr B asked us to look into things. 
Before we did, Equifax wrote to Mr B now upholding his complaint. They said sorry for not 
investigating his complaint thoroughly. They now accepted his address hadnt been updated 
properly  and offered him £100 for this, along with a further £100 for customer service 
issues.
Mr B said this didnt resolve his complaint, because ideally, he wanted a meaningful censure 
and penalty if we found theyd not acted as they should. He also explained hes trying to 
move to a new house, and get cars on finance, so the cost to him could easily be more than 
£200. Mr B said he wanted Equifax to get the message that if theyre going to gather 
peoples data, theyre going to be held fully accountable if they make a mistake.
After clarifying that we were able to look into all the issues Mr B has raised, our Investigator 
issued his outcome. In short, he felt Equifax hadnt handled things fairly, and thought £300 
compensation in total was fair  rather than the £200 Equifax had offered.
Mr B didnt accept this outcome  following further discussions he said:
He wanted an apology from a director at Equifax
The compensation amount of £300 doesnt appear to be in line with our own 
published guidelines for how compensation is assessed  and quoted from our 
website.
He summarised the issues by saying the matter ongoing for well over a year with having to 
correct repeated errors by Equifax caused him considerable distress and inconvenience.
The repeated errors Mr B refers to includes his address not being shown correctly, his name 
being spelt wrong and all his data being removed  amongst other things.
My understanding is that all of these issues have now been resolved, as a result of his 
perseverance in speaking to Equifax. But one outstanding issue, based on Mr Bs timeline 
he provided to our service, is that the electoral roll information is still showing incorrectly  he 
says its been recorded as 2004, when hes provided evidence it should be 2002.
Prior to deciding this complaint, I wanted to understand why Equifax couldnt / wouldnt 
record Mr B as being on the electoral roll from 2002, given hed provided evidence of this. 
Equifax came back and said they would now load this information to Mr Bs credit file.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Bs complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant 
to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
From what I can see the two issues are:
The date Mr Bs electoral roll information is recorded on his credit file
Appropriate steps to resolve the complaint
The date Mr Bs electoral roll information is recorded on his credit file
As Ive mentioned above, Equifax have now told us theyll update their records to show that 
Mr B was on the electoral roll from 2002 onwards  given hed provided the evidence of this.
From what I can see in the course of the complaint it was their view this wouldnt impact 
Mr Bs credit file to any degree. Given the credit report did show Mr B had been on the 
electoral roll for most of the last 20 years, I suspect this is true. But, that doesnt mean 
Equifax handled this element properly, which Ill address in the next section. 
Appropriate steps to resolve the complaint
I dont think there is any dispute that Equifax have not handled things well when dealing with 
Mr B on this complaint. As Ive listed out above, recording a Notice of Dispute unnecessarily, 
not looking into Mr Bs complaint properly when it was raised, and a host of other issues  
which include getting his name wrong, as well removing all of his details.
From what I can see Mr B has been put to quite a lot of inconvenience at having to correct 
all of the issues hes found  and I think theyve only been corrected because of his 
perseverance, rather than Equifax acting appropriately.
Given that, I dont think the £300 is enough to recognise the issues. Ive noted Mr B wants a 
meaningful penalty, but that isnt what we do. We consider the impact on individuals, rather 
than punishing the financial business. Here, issues were repeated, over a significant length of time, and with seemingly very little competent support from Equifax. Given all of that, I 
think £500 is a fairer reflection of the distress caused to Mr B.
Ive noted Mr B wants a letter of apology from a Director of Equifax. We put this to Equifax, 
and they said they couldnt guarantee this, but could send one from the complaints 
manager. I wont require this, as I think the compensation is sufficiently robust to act as an 
apology for the issues Mr B has experienced. But, as Equifax have made the offer, they can 
issue the apology letter if they wish.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B replied and said hed be willing to accept my decision, if interest is applied to it. He said 
its been over two years and should have been resolved under the law. He said at no stage 
has he caused any delays.
Equifax said thanks for the update, and theyll wait to hear from us. They didnt say anything 
else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr Bs point, in that its not his fault this matter went on for a long time. But I 
took into account the length of time this matter had taken when thinking about the 
compensation. So, although I understand his point, the compensation reflects the time taken. 
Because of that, I wont be awarding interest on the compensation amount.
As I dont agree with Mr B that interest is appropriate, and Equifax havent added anything 
further for me to consider, Ill continue to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained 
above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Equifax Limited to pay Mr B £500 compensation and load 
his electoral roll data from 2002.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman