DRN-3699379
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the way ALD Automotive Limited (ALD) handled his request to reduce 
the contracted mileage that applied to his hire agreement. He also complains about 
additional charges ALD applied when the agreement ended. 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr T entered into a hire agreement with ALD for a new car. The terms of this 
agreement required him to make one larger payment in advance, followed by 47 monthly 
payments of around £264. 
Mr T says it became obvious in June 2021 that hed be covering significantly less than the 
contracted mileage due to COVID-19. He contacted ALD to try to reduce this by 10,000 
miles, expecting to reduce his monthly expenditure. But ALD said this would increase his 
monthly payments, so Mr T says he had no option but to leave the contract as it was.
In March 2022 the car was inspected and returned to ALD by one of their agents. The agent 
produced a report detailing charges for damage to the car, totalling £420. This was for:
Wheel LHF scratched £90
Wheel RHF scratched £90
Door LHR scratched £120
Door RHR scratched £120
Mr T complained that it was unfair for ALD to impose these additional charges. He felt that, 
as hed covered less than 37,000 miles in the car, it was worth around £1,200 more than if it 
had covered the full 50,000 miles allowed by the contract. Mr T suggested ALD should split 
the profit from this reduced mileage and the surge in used car market values during the 
global pandemic, giving him a rebate of £800. 
ALD said the mileage set out in the contract was the maximum Mr T was able to use - and 
that the agreement didnt provide for a reimbursement to be given if this wasnt utilised. ALD 
said the charges of £420 were justified for damage to the vehicle. Dissatisfied with this 
response, Mr T brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator was satisfied ALD had applied the end of contract damage charges fairly, in 
line with industry guidelines. He said ALD arent obliged to follow a particular formula when 
quoting for a mileage reduction  theyre entitled to quote as they wish. The investigator said 
the agreement didnt cater for a refund to be given for the car having lower than the 
expected mileage - or appreciating in value.
Mr T didnt agree that ALD had treated him fairly. He provided a copy of the quote theyd 
given him in response to his request to reduce the contracted mileage. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review things again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts complaint is about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer hire agreements is a 
regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider this type of complaint. 
Request to reduce the contracted mileage
ALD have provided a copy of the hire agreement Mr T signed, which Ive read carefully. Ive 
seen that Mr T agreed to hire the car for 48 months, on the basis that hed be able to cover 
up to 50,000 miles without incurring additional mileage charges. The terms and conditions 
make it clear that ALD is under no obligation to vary the agreement. I do think this made it 
clear that Mr T was entering into a four-year commitment. 
Mr T stresses that he couldnt make as much use of the car as he expected due to 
unforeseen restrictions on travelling - and that these werent normal circumstances. Ive 
considered whether ALD treated him fairly when he asked to reduce the contracted mileage.
Ive reviewed the letter Mr T received from ALD dated 5 July 2021, providing a quotation for 
reducing the total contract mileage to 40,000. It explains that modifying the agreement for 
the remaining seven months would have increased Mr Ts monthly payments to £430.80. I 
can appreciate how frustrating this situation must have been for Mr T when he was trying to 
reduce his monthly expenditure. 
But as Ive explained, ALD were under no obligation to vary the agreement. In response to 
Mr Ts request, ALD were entitled to make business decisions as to whether theyd be willing 
to vary the agreement and the revised monthly rental theyd charge, based on factors they 
considered relevant to their pricing model at the time. That isnt something I can comment 
on. 
The agreement terms and conditions say ALD will:
a. Agree the charges with you before it varies this agreement;
 b. Give you notice in writing before it varies this agreement.
Im satisfied ALD sent Mr T a quotation, so he could decide whether he wanted to accept it. 
So, I wouldnt expect ALD to do anything more here. 
Were the charges applied at the end of the contract fair?
Paragraph 2.5 of the agreement lists things Mr T was responsible for carrying out at his own 
expense. This includes:
(a) maintain the bodywork and the exterior and interior of the Vehicle in good 
condition, having regard to the age and mileage of the Vehicle. In assessing 
appropriate vehicle condition with regard to age and mileage, ALD will use the 
criteria set out in the definition of Fair Wear and Tear.
The definitions section of the agreement says Fair Wear and Tear means the most 
recent British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. I consider 
these guidelines to represent good practice across the industry, giving descriptions of 
what should be considered fair wear and tear when a vehicle is returned. The evidence Ive seen confirms the car was three years old and had covered around 
36,672 miles at the time of the inspection. So, Ive also thought about whats fair and 
reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.
ALD have provided a copy of their agents inspection report dated 29 March 2022. Ive 
considered each item of damage described in that report. 
1. Damage to the front wheels
Ive looked at what the BVRLA guidelines say about damage to wheels:
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable.
The inspection report includes photos of the front wheels, showing a ruler placed near the 
damaged areas. These clearly show scratches longer than 50mm along the rim of both front 
wheels. I can also clearly see damage to the spoke of the right-hand front wheel. 
Im satisfied that the damage to the front wheels falls outside the BVRLA guidelines for fair 
wear and tear, so I consider it to be fair for ALD to charge Mr T for this.
2. Damage to the rear doors
Ive looked at what the BVRLA guidelines say about damage to paintwork:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out.
The inspection report includes photos of the doors, again showing a ruler placed near to the 
damaged areas. The photos of the left and right-hand rear doors both clearly show scratches 
that are significantly longer than 25mm. 
Im satisfied that the damage to the rear doors falls outside the BVRLA guidelines for fair 
wear and tear, so I think it was fair for ALD to charge Mr T for this.
Should ALD have given a rebate for lower than expected mileage?
Ive seen that the agreement allowed for a maximum of 50,000 miles within the original 
48-month hire period. The inspection report confirms the car had only travelled around 
36,672 miles when ALD collected it.
I appreciate Mr T feels the cars resale value would potentially be higher due to the relatively 
low mileage  and that ALD should make an allowance for this.  But Ive seen no provision in 
the agreement for any allowance to be made for the car being returned with less than the 
maximum permitted mileage. Although I appreciate Mr T finds this frustrating, I dont 
consider ALD to have treated him unfairly here. 
My final decision
Your text hereUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman