DRN-3028600
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that she has had to pay an additional 20% toward the cost of the vets 
bills for her dog when he had to undergo surgery. She says this wasnt made clear to her by 
Allianz Insurance PLC when she bought the policy.
What happened
Mrs W took a policy with Allianz in December 2009. This was a lifetime policy, meaning that 
providing she renewed it each year and continued paying the premiums, the policy would 
give continuous cover for the lifetime of the pet.
When Mrs Ws pet dog needed surgery in 2021 she made a claim on the policy. Due to her 
pets age, as well as paying the standard excess of £135, a further 20% was deducted from 
the claim payments. Mrs W complained that she was not aware that she would need to pay 
a further 20% towards the cost of the treatment. 
Allianz said the 20% excess had been applied correctly in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. It said: 
the policy terms were sent to Mrs W when she bought the policy;
the renewal in 2018 gave 12 months notice that as her dog would be turning 10 
years old the additional 20% deduction would become payable on top of the excess;  
at renewal in 2019 the documents confirmed the 20% contribution excess was now 
payable.
So Allianz said the 20% deduction was correct but as a gesture of goodwill and to recognise 
her loyalty as a customer it offered a 10% discount on the premium for both of Mrs Ws pets.
Mrs W remained unhappy and complained to our service. Our investigator said that although 
Allianz made an effort later on to make Mrs W aware of the costs, this should have been 
made clear at the outset when she bought the policy and earlier than 12 months before her 
dogs 10th birthday. She thought the offer of a 10% discount to the premium was appropriate 
and should be applied but in addition Allianz should pay £150 to recognise the upset and 
stress caused to Mrs W when she had the surprise of paying the co-payment. 
Allianz didnt agree with the investigators recommendation and has requested an 
ombudsmans decision. It says the renewal documents in 2018, 2019 and 2020 all made it 
clear what would happen, so there were three sets of documentation before the 2021 claim 
highlighting to Mrs W that the additional payment would apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When selling the insurance, Allianz had to provide appropriate information to enable to 
Mrs W make an informed choice about what cover was needed, and ensure the information 
it provided was clear, fair and not misleading.
As with most insurance policies, the policy has an excess payable as the first part of a claim. 
In addition to this, once a pet reaches 10 years old a contribution of 20% of the cost of 
treatment is to be paid on top of the excess. This is known as a co-payment and is 
effectively an additional excess to be paid toward treatment costs. Its not unusual in lifetime 
pet insurance to have a co-payment like this once a pet reaches a certain age. 
Mrs W originally bought the policy in 2009. The policy terms provided to her set out what 
should happen in the event of a claim. They  said: 
Allianz will pay The cost of veterinary fees for the veterinary treatment your pet 
has received during the policy year to treat an illness or injury.
The policyholder will pay The excess shown on your Certificate of Insurance Animal 
Details.
I think the excess is significant, since the policyholder needs to know what they will have to 
pay towards any treatment. And as this insurance is described as lifetime, I think the long 
term costs, including any co-payments, should be highlighted. Again, thats so the 
policyholder understands how the policy they are taking out will work and what they may 
have to pay.
The policy summary provided to Mrs W in 2009 said:
If your pet is covered on the Pet Share option or your pet is 10 years old or over  in 
addition to the Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment fixed excess you will also 
have to pay a percentage of all treatment costs. See Definitions - Excess and Select breeds, 
and Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment - What you pay.
The definition of excess said:
Excess: The amount shown on your Certificate of Insurance Animal Details. This is the first 
part of each unrelated claim and the amount you have to pay.
For Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment this will either be a) a fixed amount only
Or b) a fixed amount and a percentage amount
So the documents did refer to the additional payment. However, the policy terms refer to the 
percentage shown on your Certificate of Insurance
So although the policy documents said a percentage would need to be paid once the pet is 
10 years old or over, I dont think it was very clear  particularly as the documents directed 
Mrs W to look at the schedule to see what she had to pay. And at that time, the schedule 
only said she had to pay the fixed excess  not the additional percentage payment  and she 
would have had to read through the all the documents carefully to understand what further 
payments might have to be made and when. Looking at the documents in the round, I dont 
think it was clear enough to Mrs W what she would have to pay in future.
I appreciate that things can change over the lifetime of a policy. And the policy terms allow 
Allianz to make changes at renewal. But the policyholder still needs to understand  at the 
point when they buy the policy  what they might have to pay in future. I dont think the 
information provided at the time was sufficiently clear.
Allianz says that in any event, the renewal documents sent in 2018, 2019 and 2020 did 
make it clear what would happen, so it wouldnt have been a shock to Mrs W when she had 
to pay the 20% contribution. Allianz did highlight that there would be a change, but by that 
time her pet was nine years old and she had already had the policy for years. It would likely 
be expensive to find an alternative policy at that point. And it would have still been upsetting to find out from these documents, years after buying the policy, that the amount shed have 
to pay towards treatment would be much higher than shed expected. 
For these reasons I agree that in addition to the offer of a reduced premium, a payment of 
£150 compensation would be fair to acknowledge the upset caused to Mrs W. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Allianz Insurance Plc to put things 
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman