DRN-1485342
 
The complaint
Mr A says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).
What happened
Mr A took out a mortgage with BOS in 1997. At the same time he took out a regular premium 
PPI policy to cover his repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness or 
lost his job. The policy wouldve paid out for 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr A.  
Mr A disagrees. He says the costs of the policy werent made clear to him and he didnt need 
the policy because he already had enough cover in work benefits. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr A that he had a choice in taking the policy. 
Mr A hasnt provided much detail about when he took out his mortgage and cant remember 
anything about the sale of PPI which is understandable considering the amount of time that 
has passed. And BOS havent given us any of the documents from the time of the sale. So I 
dont know exactly what was discussed about PPI or how it was presented.
But from what I know about BOSs sales process at the time, I think its likely that it wouldve
made Mr A aware that PPI was optional and that Mr A had PPI because he chose to take it. 
Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt given a choice or that he didnt agree to buy it.
BOS is treating the sale as if it advised Mr A to take the policy  this puts him in the best 
position. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information about PPI in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr A could make an informed choice about buying 
PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for 
Mr As needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. I understand Mr A feels strongly that 
he didnt need the policy, but I think the policy wouldve still been a suitable
recommendation for Mr A for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr A says he was entitled to a generous level of sick pay, had a good redundancy 
package and couldve sold his shareholdings to cover his mortgage repayments if he 
lost his job or was too sick to work. I accept this might well have been the case but  
the policy wouldve paid out on top of all this and for potentially longer, covering him 
for up to 12 months and freed up his work benefits to pay for any other regular 
outgoings. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr A in his circumstances 
especially considering it was his first mortgage. Given the implications if he was 
unable to meet his repayments I think Mr A wouldve been interested in protecting 
them.
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr A at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it.
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr A information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr A has told us about his circumstances at the 
time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information.
This means that BOS hasnt done anything wrong and I wont be upholding Mr As 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr As complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman