DRN-4390344
The complaint
Mr S complains about how much Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) increased 
the price of his car insurance policy at renewal.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. The annual premium he paid in 2020-21 
was £825.11. 
At renewal in 2021 Admiral said it would cost him £1,395.96 for the year.
Mr S wasnt happy about the amount of this increase and he complained. Admiral said it had 
based its calculation of his premium on a range of factors, and itd checked those and found 
they were correct.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks that hes 
compensated for the change in price. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and thought it wouldnt be upheld. He said hed 
checked Admirals calculation and the amount it charged Mr S was correct.
Mr S didnt accept the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so its has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S has provided details of the events which took place leading up to and around the 
renewal of his policy in 2021. I can see that he had an incident in his car after which he 
replaced a damaged part at his own cost, as the cost was less than his excess. Admiral 
recorded this incident.
Then at renewal Mr S increased the amount of mileage he expected to cover over the year, 
from 7,000 to 12,000. 
Hed also reached five years No Claims Discount and chose to protect it. This had a cost of 
£90.72 which is included in the renewal figure of £1,395.96.
I mention these events because they all will have had a part to play in the price increase on 
Mr Ss policy. Firstly, the protected NCD accounted for over £90. The mileage increase also 
made a small amount of the premium rise.
Admiral says in its final response that the loss suffered by Mr S is a major rating factor in its 
calculation as customers who have one loss generally go on to make a claim in the future. 
So its likely this had a large impact on his premium.
I think its also fair I mention the general rate of inflation, and specific types of inflation 
encountered by insurance companies. 2021 was during a period of great uncertainty and the 
vehicle repair chain was suffering major shortages and sharply increasing prices. Those 
costs may well have been passed on to customers like Mr S. I cant see this has been 
commented on by Admiral but as I say I think its fair I mention it here.
Admiral has supplied this service with its underwriting calculation. This is commercially 
sensitive and Im not going to share it here, but Ive looked carefully at how Admiral 
calculated Mr Ss renewal premium and I can see that what he was charged was the amount 
Admiral should have charged him according to its pricing rules.
I know Mr S doesnt find this price increase fair, but hes free to choose his provider from 
across the marketplace and he may have been able to match or improve on Admirals 
quotation. 
Put simply, its not in Admirals interest to overcharge customers as it knows the car 
insurance marketplace is very competitive.
Taking all this into account, I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly towards Mr S, and I cant 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman