DRN-4230496
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy MetLife Europe d.a.c turned down a claim he made on his personal 
accident insurance policy.  
What happened
In December 2022 Mr R suffered a burns injury to his leg. He claimed on his MetLife 
MultiProtect policy which includes cover for accidental permanent injuries. MetLife turned 
down the claim. It said the policy covered third degree burns covering 20% of the bodys 
surface area but the medical evidence didnt show Mr Rs injury met that definition. 
Our investigator accepted Mr R had suffered pain and difficulty as a result of his injury. But 
she agreed the medical evidence didnt show he met the definition set out in the policy. She 
thought MetLife had fairly turned down his claim. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said wed just provided the same answer as MetLife. So I need to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say MetLife has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. Under the accidental 
permanent injuries section it says: 
we will pay the policy benefit shown in your policy schedule if an insured person suffers any 
of the following injuries as a result of an accident within 12 months of the date of such 
accidentthird degree burns  covering 20% of the bodys surface area
The policy goes on to explain that means burns or scalds that involve damage or 
destruction of the skin to its full depth through to the underlying tissue and covering at least 
20% of the bodys external surface area.
In this case I dont think its in dispute Mr R suffered an extremely painful and distressing 
injury. However, the medical evidence from when he attended hospital doesnt show that 
met the definition set out in the policy. A medical report from the time says the burns he 
suffered were partial thickness and covered 3-4% of body.
Theres no other medical evidence which suggests otherwise. So I think MetLife correctly 
concluded the policy definition hadnt been met. I appreciate what Ive said matches with the 
outcome MetLife gave but thats because I think it acted fairly. As our investigator said, if Mr 
R does have medical evidence to show his burns meet the policy definition, MetLife has 
confirmed it would review matters.  
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman