DRN-2151597
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about the handling of his home emergency insurance claim by British 
Gas Services Limited. Any references to British Gas include their agents.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr W called British Gas to unblock the sewer drain just outside his back 
door. This was work that was covered under his HomeCare policy. During their visit they 
damaged Mr Ws hosepipe connector and the drain cover. And they didnt clean the area 
properly, leaving sewage waste on the path. 
When Mr W complained, British Gas said they were aware that the drain cover had been 
broken and were trying to find a replacement cover. But they couldnt find a like-for-like 
replacement cover and so needed to break out the pathway in order to fit a different drain 
cover.
British Gas fitted the new drain cover while Mr W was away. But when he returned, he 
wasnt happy with the quality of the work. And he said the workmen had left a mess for him 
to clear up. He called British Gas and they arranged to re-do the work two weeks later.
But Mr W remained unhappy. He said although the quality of work was better there was still 
a repair patch around the new drain cover which is an eyesore because it didnt match the 
surrounding concrete. And he said there was still concrete smeared on the path. 
When Mr W complained to British Gas, they acknowledged that things hadnt gone as well 
as they might have, and paid Mr W £150 as a goodwill gesture to compensate for the poor 
service hed received. But, they disagreed with Mr Ws view that his concrete path was now 
an eyesore and felt that theyd left Mr W in a position as near as possible to that he was in 
before the initial call-out. 
Mr W didnt think this was enough to compensate him, particularly as there was still concrete 
staining on his path and because the new concrete in the repair patch doesnt match the old 
concrete. So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed the matter and said she could see that Mr Ws path has lost its 
visual appeal as a result of British Gass work. And she said she thought theyd caused 
Mr W inconvenience as hed had to clean the area and make repairs and also contact British 
Gas several times. She initially said she thought British Gas should increase their 
compensation to £250. 
Mr W sent further comments in and a quote from a contractor to fix the area around the new 
drain cover. This quote said it would cost £174. Our investigator updated her view and said 
she thought British Gas should increase their compensation to £274. British Gas and Mr W 
accepted this outcome but when Mr W didnt receive the compensation he became unhappy 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision  so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr W added that the £274 settlement would mean hed only receive £100 after paying for the 
rectification works, whereas our investigator had originally suggested £250 was a fair and 
reasonable amount. He thought a settlement of £250 plus the £174 would be fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator and Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
From the documents provided its clear that things went wrong here. British Gas were called 
out to fix a blocked drain and although the first workman sorted that problem, he caused 
other issues which took some time to resolve. British Gas have accepted thats the case so 
its up to me to consider whats fair and reasonable to compensate Mr W for whats gone 
wrong.
Ive considered what Mr Ws been through. After the first workmans visit, he had to clean 
sewage waste from his path and fix his hosepipe. He needed to call British Gas to tell them 
about the broken drain cover, and then he had to follow up on this to arrange a second visit 
for the replacement drain cover to be fitted. 
After the second visit, Mr W needed to clean concrete off his gate, fence and path. And he 
needed to call British Gas to arrange a third visit to sort out the quality of the repairs. 
After the third visit, Mr W was still unhappy with the repairs and eventually decided to ask 
someone else to re-do the job, at a cost of £174. Ive looked at the photos of Mr Ws path 
and I can see why hes unhappy. The concrete in the repair patch does appear very different 
to the rest of the path, in both colour and texture. The repair patch arose because British 
Gass workman broke the original drain cover. And British Gas have already tried twice to fix 
the patch to Mr Ws satisfaction  so I think its fair to ask British Gas to pay for the work to 
match the patch to the rest of Mr Ws path.
I can see from the complaint notes that British Gass original offer of compensation took into 
account the loss of attraction of the path. And our investigators first suggestion of £250 
also took into account the loss of visual appeal. But if British Gas pays for the work to restore 
the visual appeal of the path, theyll no longer need to compensate Mr W for the loss of 
visual appeal. And thats why our investigator only increased the compensation by a small 
amount when Mr W sent in the quote for further repairs. She was effectively saying that £100 
would be an appropriate amount for the inconvenience and stress Mr W had experienced.
I agree with our investigator and Im satisfied £100 is fair compensation. I appreciate Mr Ws 
had to make several phone calls and had to clean up after British Gas. But the area in 
question was outside (rather than inside) his house and didnt cause him day-to-day 
inconvenience. And I think British Gas have tried to fix things for Mr W. Of course, its not an 
exact science, but on balance Im happy this is a fair and reasonable amount. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained, I agree with our investigator that Mr W should receive a total of £274 from 
British Gas to cover the cost of matching the concrete around his drain to the rest of the 
path, and to compensate him for the inconvenience theyve caused him. Theyve already 
paid Mr W £150  so they need to pay a further £124 to put things right.My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. British Gas Service Limited need to pay £124 to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman