DRN-1678595
The complaint
Mr B acquired a used car in May 2018, using his TSB Bank plc credit card. He complains 
that his car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He wants TSB to refund in 
full the payment he made to acquire it.
What happened
Mr Bs car was 10 years old, and had travelled a little over 77,400 miles, when he paid just 
under £4,500 to acquire it. He said his car displayed a cooling system fault on the day he 
took delivery of it.  His car was repaired 4 days later by a dealership (not the supplying 
dealer), having travelled nearly 200 miles since delivery. 
Mr Bs car was serviced five months later, by the dealership that had previously repaired it: 
His car had travelled a little under 6,000 miles since delivery 
The earlier cooling system fault was not identified as a continuing problem
A lubrication system fault was identified and repaired
Mr B said that, after this service, a warning light would come on and the car would go into 
limp mode. The same dealership replaced warn engine ignition components in his car, just 
over a year after delivery, and more than 6,600 miles since it was serviced. The dealership 
advised our investigator that:
The warn components could have caused both the warning light to come on, and the 
car to go into limp mode
This engine ignition system problem was not related to either of the previous (cooling 
system and lubrication system) faults
Mr Bs said that he became concerned in June 2019, when his cars engine began to 
shudder. His car was inspected at a different dealership in early August 2019, having 
travelled nearly 14,500 miles over 15 months since delivery. He was told that major engine 
repairs were required costing over £1,500.
Mr B complained to TSB that the car was not of satisfactory quality. It responded saying that 
his complaint could not be upheld, unless he could demonstrate that the engine shudder was 
caused by a fault at the point of supply.  
Mr B referred his complaint to us in October 2019. Our investigator understood that Mr B 
decided not to have the major engine repairs undertaken. He chose instead to sell the car for 
£1,200. 
Our investigator was also advised that the problems connected with engine shudder were 
not related to the earlier cooling system fault. She noted as well the distance travelled by 
Mr Bs car (over 14,000 miles), and the elapsed time (over 12 months), since this earlier fault 
was repaired.   
Our investigator though the complaint should not be upheld. She concluded:
Although Mr Bs car did have a cooling system fault at the point of supply, this was 
successfully repaired within a few days
This fault did not make the car unfit for purpose, because it was driven nearly 200 
miles before the fault was repaired
Neither of the cars subsequent problems were related to this fault
And Mr Bs car was likely to develop faults and require maintenance, arising from 
normal wear and tear, after he acquired it  given its age and total mileage travelled
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. So, his complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Bs car was under warranty from the supplying dealership, but that the 
warranty had a £1,000 claim limit. This means that, if Mr B had decided to have his car 
repaired in August 2019 under warranty, he would have been required to make a 
contribution of over £500 to the repair costs.
If Mr B had decided to have his car repaired, he may or may not have had a case against the 
supplying dealer for recovery of his contribution to the repair costs. But this complaint is 
against TSB.
TSB has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances, which for 
cars include age and mileage travelled. But there are limits to TSBs responsibilities. In 
particular, faults must be present or developing at the point of supply.
I sympathise with Mr B. But TSB made the limits of its responsibilities clear to him, in its 
response to his complaint. 
Our investigator was advised by the dealership which serviced and repaired Mr Bs car that   
its engine ignition system problem was not related to either of the previous (cooling system 
and lubrication system) faults.  Our investigator was also advised that the problems 
connected with engine shudder were not related to the earlier cooling system fault.
I believe that the advice our investigator received was not from an independent organisation, 
suitably accredited to give such advice. (Although I think that the advice is more likely than 
not to be correct.) And so, Mr B could have argued and demonstrated that it was incorrect  
but he has not done so. 
Mr B has also not obtained his own advice  as he might have done, arising from TSBs 
response to his complaint. TSBs response made clear that the onus was on Mr B to 
demonstrate that the engine system problem arose from a fault present or developing at the 
point of supply.
In these circumstances, I am unable to support Mr Bs complaint. And I find that I have come 
to the same conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman