DRN-2739400
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on his landlord 
insurance policy, after his property was damaged by a leak.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr T made a claim on his landlord insurance policy for water damage. This had 
been caused by a leak from the flat above. Ageas asked Mr T to provide photos, and quotes 
for the repairs. Ageas received this information a week later, and it appointed a surveyor to 
assess the claim.
The surveyor reported that the leak was from the waste pipe between the toilet and external 
downpipe, and there was evidence the leak had been ongoing for some time and previous 
attempted repairs had failed. He reported the stonework, pointing, and mastic around two 
windows were in a poor condition; and parts of the window frames had perished. Ageas 
declined the claim based on a policy exclusion for gradual damage, and wear and tear. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators thought the claim had 
been fairly declined. Because Mr T disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, the photos support the external wall and window frames are suffering from some 
longstanding issues. So, Im persuaded Ageas fairly declined the external damage.
Mr T says the internal damage wasnt caused by the leak from the connection to the external 
downpipe, but by an issue with the overflow pipe in the cistern. However, although I accept 
thats the case, I would still decide Ageas had fairly declined the internal damage if I was 
persuaded it had occurred gradually, and Mr T ought reasonably to have acted sooner.
I appreciate Mr T wasnt responsible for either leak. However, based on the photos provided, 
and the extent of the damage reported, Im not persuaded that Mr T acted as soon as he (or 
his tenants) ought reasonably to have become aware there were issues at the property. 
The quote to repair the overflow pipe issue in the cistern, which contained photos of the 
internal and external walls, is dated February 2020; and its evident from the photos the 
damage had been ongoing for some time before then.
I note Mr T points towards an incorrect address on the surveyors report. However, its not 
disputed he visited the correct address or that his observations relate to Mr Ts property.
In conclusion, based on the information provided, Im not persuaded that Ageas unfairly 
declined Mr Ts claim.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman