DRN-4237783
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about QIC Europe Ltd. She isnt happy about the way it dealt with a 
claim under her home insurance policy following damage during bad weather. 
What happened
Mrs Ds property suffered damage following a storm causing internal ceiling damage after 
slates came away from her roof during a storm. So, she made a claim through her home 
insurance policy with QIC. Her roof tiles had come away on her bungalow and the 
subsequent water ingress had caused damage to the ceiling in her living room.
QIC asked its surveyor to inspect the damage. But although they seemed to accept there 
was a storm that couldve caused the damage they felt the repair Mrs D had undertaken to 
the roof (repair of the tiles above the leak) meant that they couldnt substantiate a claim for 
storm as the policy holder does not have any photographic evidence at the time of the 
loss so it declined the claim. As Mrs D wasnt happy about this she complained to this 
Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs D and she upheld the complaint. She explained 
that there was a storm around the time of claim that couldve caused the damage. And she 
thought, on balance, the claim damage was linked to the storm and that QIC should pay Mrs 
Ds costs incurred in putting the internal ceiling damage right. 
As QIC didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds home insurance policy provides cover for, amongst other things, damage caused by 
storm. And QIC seems to accept that the reported gusts of wind in the area leading up to 
Mrs Ds claim (around 52mph) were close enough to be considered storm strength winds. As 
QIC seems to accept this I dont propose to go over this now. 
The dispute and decline of the claim centres around the damage that was caused and 
whether there is sufficient evidence that the damage to Mrs Ds ceiling was caused by roof 
damage sustained during the storm. QIC reached its conclusion after inspecting the roof. Its 
surveyor said that above the damage in the living room there are three replacement tiles. 
Unfortunately the policyholder does not have any photographic evidence of the damage at 
the time of the loss and therefore we are unable to substantiate a claim for storm. And given 
this it declined the claim.
However, as QICs report identified three tiles have been replaced directly above the area of 
damage in the living room so it is clear that this is most likely the source of the water ingress. 
Its surveyor could have done more to look at the damage above the ceiling and directly 
under the roof tiles that were replaced if they wanted to investigate this further and reassure 
QIC that the storm was the main cause of damage. 
Indeed, the surveyor said in his report that the internal loss is a result of rainwater ingress 
from the main roof so it seems likely, on balance, the damage Mrs D has claimed for was 
linked to the missing tiles. I know QIC has said Mrs D should have had a temporary repair 
done which I understand but the repair was done as a gesture of goodwill and I wouldnt 
expect the repairer to do a temporary repair if it was just as easy to replace the tiles, 
especially as he was trying to be as helpful as possible to Mrs D who was in a vulnerable 
position. She had to put buckets down under her ceiling and her property was vulnerable to 
the elements at that time, so I think the repairers steps to stop the leak were reasonable. 
I agree it would have been beneficial to have had photographs of the damage before repair. 
And QIC has highlighted the following term under the policy you may carry out any 
temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further loss or damage, but do not carry 
out any permanent repairs without first getting our written permission. 
However, the repairer was simply doing Mrs D a favour and I would question why he would 
leave Mrs D in a vulnerable position when he could complete an effective repair which 
wasnt costing anything as it was done as a gesture of good will. And a temporary repair may 
have been more difficult to undertake and left the possibility that there would be further water 
ingress. It is clear that Mrs D wouldnt have been able to take photos of the damage as she 
couldnt access the roof and Im sure the repairer didnt think about this as he was simply 
focussing on helping Mrs D. Indeed, QIC couldve tried to contact the repairer to discuss 
what they found upon repair but chose not to.  
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for QIC to pay the costs Mrs D incurred in repairing her ceiling that was clearly 
damaged by water ingress from the storm damaged roof subject to reasonable proof. And 
pay simple interest for the time Mrs D has been without the money. Ultimately, the tiles have 
clearly been replaced and Im satisfied, on balance, that this was storm damage. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mrs Ds repair 
costs subject to reasonable proof. Plus, 8% simple interest from the date she paid for the 
repairs until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman