DRN-2779608
The complaint
Ms B complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled her motor insurance policy.
What happened
For the year from April 2019, Ms B had her car covered on a policy with UKI.
In June 2019, Ms Bs car was damaged in an accident. 
UKI wrote a final response dated 5 June 2020. It said that Ms B had complained about the 
handling of her claim for replacement child car seats. UKI offered compensation of £150.00 
for poor service. UKI said Ms B had complained about the policy excess but UKI didnt 
uphold her complaint about that. 
In July 2020, Ms B replied to UKIs final response.
Ms B brought her complaint to us in mid-October 2020. 
UKI settled the claim for car seats on 4 February 2021 for the amount of £198.39.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that:
The policy in April 2019 was set up with an own damage excess of £350.00, and not 
£250.00 as Ms B had said;
The amount of £198.39 paid by UKI Ltd for the loss of the child car seats appears fair 
and reasonable;
The £150.00 compensation previously offered by UKI Ltd for the poor service during 
the claim is fair and reasonable.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She got a quotation stating that the excess was £250.00.
She offered to accept £50.00 per seat (£150.00 total) but UKI didnt respond.
 It was reasonable for her to keep expecting replacement child seats "any day now". 
She didnt cash UKIs cheques because it said that they were "full and final 
settlement", which she didnt accept. This was even before the car seat issue had 
been resolved.
She doesn't have any objection to the amount paid by BACS for replacement car 
seats.
£150.00 isnt adequate compensation for the delays and lack of communication. She 
understands that this was issued in respect of the car seat issue only. £150.00 isnt 
an appropriate amount for compromising the safety of her children for over a year. 
Communication has been appalling from UKI - with 43 contacts for a straightforward 
claim. 
She believes the level of compensation should be at the highest end of moderate for 
the poor communication and the lower end of substantial for the car seat delays. She 
would also like UKI to address the communication issue, apologise and say what 
they will do in future to prevent recurrence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I refer to UKI, I include other companies and individuals insofar as I hold UKI 
responsible for their actions.
Ms B has sent us a screenshot from a price comparison site which included four quotes 
based on the following:
voluntary excess £250.00
One of the quotes was for £246.40  which is the amount on the UKI April 2019 policy 
schedule. So I accept that UKI quoted that premium on the basis of a £250.00 voluntary 
excess.
But Ive seen a UKI screenshot that indicates that - in addition to the voluntary excess - there 
was also a compulsory excess of £100.00. I dont hold UKI responsible for the way that the 
comparison site gave about the compulsory excess.
In any event, UKIs April 2019 policy schedule included the following:
Excess amounts:
o Excess amount for Accidental Damage (Own Damage Excess)  Section B £350
So I find that it was clear enough that Ms B would have to pay for the first £350.00 of 
damage to her own vehicle. She had the opportunity to review the policy schedule and to 
cancel the policy if she wasnt happy with it.
After the accident, from what Ms B has said, UKI paid her cash in lieu of repairs. But  
because it deducted £350.00  she didnt cash the cheque or arrange repairs. 
But I dont find it unfair that UKI deducted the excess of £350.00. So I dont find that Ms B 
shouldve expected a deduction of £250.00 and a payment £100.00 higher than she 
received. It follows that I dont hold UKI responsible for the delay in Ms B cashing the cheque 
and arranging repairs.
The policy covered child car seats. And I hold UKI responsible for some months of delay in 
dealing with that aspect of the claim. But Ms B works in the medical profession. So I dont 
find it likely that she wouldve tolerated a situation which compromised the safety of her 
children for over a year.I accept that the final response letter offer of £150.00 appeared to relate to the issue of delay 
around the car seats. And I accept that there were more general shortcomings in the way 
UKI communicated with Ms B. I can see that the shortcomings in UKIs communication 
caused Ms B extra distress and inconvenience beyond what was inherent in an accident and 
insurance claim.
Ive thought about what I wouldve found a fair and reasonable amount of compensation if 
UKI hadnt made any offer. Ive concluded that £150.00 wouldve been fair and reasonable. 
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay any more than that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman