DRN-4228235
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt refund transactions she says were made 
without her authority.
What happened
Mrs M had an account with HSBC. In 2022, a number of online banking payments were 
made from her account. This included payments into the account of a third party, and 
payments into an account in her name with another business.
Mrs M says she didnt authorise these payments. She says that two people who moved into 
her house stole her details and made the payments. She says these people set up the 
account in her name with the other business  and tricked her into providing relevant identity 
documents.
HSBC didnt refund the payments. It says the payments were made using online banking  
and so thought Mrs M must have provided whoever made them with her security details. 
Dissatisfied, Mrs M referred the complaint to us.
I issued my provisional findings on 5 September 2023. I said that based on what Id seen so 
far I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said Id consider any further comments 
from HSBC or Mrs M by 3 October 2023.
In my provisional decision I said:
The relevant regulations were the Payment Services Regulations 2017. A consumer 
should only be held responsible for payments made from the account that they made 
themselves: if a payment transaction wasnt authorised, the payment service provider 
must refund the transaction.
But Mrs M can be held responsible for payments if shed given someone else 
permission to use her account.
Mrs M could also be held responsible for payments if shed deliberately  with intent 
 or very carelessly  with gross negligence  failed to keep security details secure.
As some of the payments took Mrs M into her overdraft, she also couldnt be held 
responsible for a loss arising from the use of a credit facility by another person not 
acting as her agent.
With this in mind, I needed to consider whether Mrs M authorised these transactions 
and, if not, whether she should nevertheless be held responsible for these 
transactions.
In the circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint, I thought HSBC could do so.
Some of the payments were made to an account in Mrs Ms name with another 
business. Mrs M said that she had no knowledge of this other account.
But the other business said that to open this account Mrs M needed to record a 
video. She needed to look into the camera and say the words My name is [Mrs M] 
and I want a [name of bank] account. The other business had sent us a copy of this 
video. I was satisfied it showed Mrs M saying she wanted the other account.
While I accepted that it was perhaps understandable that Mrs M wanted to distance 
herself from what had happened, this was plainly at odds with what shed told us had 
happened. Although shed explained that shed been tricked into providing her 
identity documents, in the video she clearly said she wanted an account with the 
other business. This meant I didnt find the rest of what shed said persuasive.
I accepted that Mrs M allowed two strangers to move into her home. I accepted they 
may have manipulated and took advantage of her. But I needed to be satisfied that 
Mrs M didnt allow someone else to use her account.
The payments were made from Mrs Ms account using her normal device and normal 
login credentials. Mrs M had suggested a number of ways this might have happened. 
She said the third party might have accessed her phone when she wasnt looking. 
She says the third party asked her to leave her home while he did some cleaning and 
might have got access to her security details  which she says were written down in 
a drawer  then. She also says she pledged her phone at a pawn shop which the 
third party subsequently said hed bought back.
But given the video evidence, I didnt find what Mrs M said persuasive. The 
transactions took place over two months  and so there was a huge risk that Mrs M 
would discover what was happening, especially as Mrs M told us she knew she was 
short on cash and that shed noticed her statements hadnt been delivered. It wasnt 
clear why, having gone to some lengths to hide what he was doing, the third party 
would tell Mrs M hed bought back the phone but wouldnt give it back to her.
I was also mindful that Mrs M said shed become dependent on the third party more 
generally. It seems he was giving her instructions more generally about how to carry 
out her day-to-day affairs. This included interfering with a repair to her vehicle and 
claiming to advise her on legal action overseas in relation to a separate scam. Above 
all, Im satisfied that Mrs M allowed the third party to set up the other account in her 
name with the other business. This demonstrated the degree of influence the third 
party had over Mrs M, and strongly suggested that by that point Mrs M had given the 
third party control over her financial affairs.
With all this in mind, I concluded that Mrs M either gave the third party access to her 
cards and accounts  or made the payments herself on the third partys instruction. 
This meant Mrs M can fairly be treated as having made these transactions, even if 
the third party, having been given access to the account, made payments Mrs M 
wouldnt have made herself.
Although Mrs M says another business had considered the same matter and 
refunded the disputed transactions, here I was only considering the actions of HSBC.
Mrs M has responded to the provisional decision with further information. HSBC hasnt 
responded.
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the further information Mrs M has provided. But it doesnt change 
my conclusion. 
On reflection, she thinks the third parties may have accessed her account by using her 
phone. She says her phone didnt have a password as her voice was her password. And she 
remembers one of the third parties using her phone and her having to take it off him.
She says she knew her payment cards had gone missing, and tried to contact HSBC but 
couldnt  the third parties had done something to her landline. And despite promising her 
that theyd sort things out, this didnt happen. She was aware she had no access to money  
the third parties said theyd help her. And then they told her that theyd run out of money and 
that she needed to pawn her phone  but that this was OK as one of their parents would 
help get this back. During this period the third parties were deliberately keeping her away 
from other people  and may have drugged her.
Shes also commented further on the account in her name with the other business. She says 
she was tricked into providing ID photos  she thought it was related to a passport 
application.
I have every sympathy with Mrs M and dont doubt shes had a very difficult time.
Here, though, I need to consider HSBCs obligations and whether HSBC needs to refund 
these transactions. As I said in my provisional decision, Mrs M can be held responsible for 
transactions she made herself or by someone else using the account with her permission. 
While Ive taken into account what Mrs M has said, the video evidence Ive seen shows that 
she expressly agreed to the creation of the bank account with the other business. This 
explains how the other account was set up and how payment instructions were moved to 
that new account. I accept that Mrs M may have been taken advantage of by the third 
parties. But that doesnt change whether HSBC can now treat Mrs M as having authorised 
these transactions.
This means I dont uphold the complaint and Im not going to tell HSBC to do anything 
further to put things right.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman