DRN-2166898
The complaint
Mr K says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two loans Lending Stream provided to Mr K between April 2014 and 
November 2014. However, as these loans were taken out seven months apart, I have 
treated them as two separate loans and not part of the same loan chain.
Details of Mr Ks lending history, as evidenced by Lending Stream, is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 02/04/2014 04/04/2014 6 (monthly) £80.00 £43.20 (monthly)
2 21/11/2014 04/09/2019 24 (weekly) £480.00 £40.04 (weekly)
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Ks complaint and felt Lending Stream had lent to him 
responsibly, so he didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mr K disagreed so, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain 
factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
why I think Lending Streams checks were proportionate for Mr Ks loan
For Mr Ks first loan of £80.00 he needed to payback monthly instalments £43.20. Ive seen 
a record of the information Mr K provided when he completed his loan application. Mr K said 
he had a monthly income of £1,200.00 and monthly expenses of £180.00. So, after 
deducting his regular monthly outgoings he was left with a disposable income of £1020.00 
per month. So, it seemed Mr K had enough money to make his monthly loan repayments. 
Mr K repaid his first loan early.
Mr K did not borrow from Lending Stream again until seven months later. At this point Mr K 
took out a loan of £480.00 and had to pay back this back in weekly instalments of £40.04. 
This amounted to a maximum of £200.20 per month. At this time Mr K had the same income 
but declared monthly expenses of £114.00. This left Mr K with a disposable monthly income 
of £1086.00. So, based on this, it looks like Mr K had more than enough money to make his 
repayments on his second loan. 
Mr K says he had other short-term loans at the time and together these loans were 
unaffordable for him.  Mr K says Lending Stream shouldve known this from their affordability 
checks and shouldve then decided not to lend to him so easily. Ive seen the information 
Lending Stream had when deciding whether to lend to Mr K. It had the information Mr K 
declared about his income and expenditure and it had collected Mr Ks overall credit score. 
At the time of loan 1 Mr Ks credit score was recorded as 726, and at the time of loan 2 
Mr Ks credit score was recorded as 744. These credit scores are good scores, showing 
nothing of concern to Lending Stream. And considering these loans were taken so far apart 
and with no prior history of lending with Lending Stream I think that Lending Stream carried 
out proportionate checks of his circumstances before agreeing to the lending. And from the 
information Lending Stream had at the time it seems these loans were affordable for him. 
It is of course possible that had Mr K taken further lending then Lending Stream, as a 
reasonable lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks at that point. But considering Mr K hadnt taken out any prior loans with Lending Stream, I dont think it had 
yet reached the stage where it needed to carry out further checks, such as verifying this 
information or enquiring into his wider financial circumstances.
I havent seen any evidence or other information that Lending Stream collected at the time 
that shows its likely it was made aware of any financial problems Mr K mightve been having. 
Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Mr Ks circumstances further. So, I think 
it was reasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment Lending Stream 
carried out for Mr Ks loans was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr K in 
these circumstances was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment for Mr K, but I want to assure 
him that Ive thought about and considered all the evidence that has been made available to 
me.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman