DRN-4078813
The complaint
P and Mrs C and Ms W complain that Capital Home Loans Limited (Capital) requested 
information from them when they were wishing to make lump sum overpayments to their 
mortgage account, which they found to be excessive and intrusive. Further, that a 
representative they spoke to, when asked, refused to provide their surname, which they feel 
is unreasonable and unprofessional.
What happened
P and Mrs C and Ms W wanted to make a lump sum overpayment to their mortgage account 
and rang Capital making an enquiry. Capital asked questions about the source of the funds 
for the payment and also about their income and employment. Capital then wrote to P and 
Mrs C and Ms W confirming that they required information on the source of the funds 
together with documentary evidence. 
P and Mrs C and Ms W objected to providing this information and pointed out that other 
lenders they dealt with didnt have the same requirements. Capital explained that in line with 
their policy and Anti-Money Laundering Regulations, they were obliged to establish the origin 
of the funds, monitor the business relationship, and scrutinise transactions to ensure 
consistency with their knowledge of their customers. Capital also suggested that to avoid 
this, P and Mrs C and Ms W could make the overpayment through a solicitor.
P and Mrs C and Ms W said during one call they asked for an advisors surname, who 
declined to provide it. Capital said that in order to protect its staff it does not require them to 
disclose their surnames, that being personal information. That policy is in place to provide 
protection for staff, and as such the staff member concerned did nothing wrong in not 
providing their surname. Capital pointed out that all calls are recorded, and customers 
accounts noted with any communications allowing them to identify their staff if so required.
Capital didnt accept it had acted unfairly, believing it had acted in line with its policies and 
legal obligations. P and Mrs C and Ms W were unhappy with Capitals final response and so 
approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator 
thought that Capital hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
P and Mrs C and Ms W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive taken account 
of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available 
evidence. 
Capital agree that it made requests for information about the source of the funds that were to 
be used to make the overpayment, and additionally for further information about Mrs C and 
Ms Ws income and employment. I can understand why initially one might think there is no 
need to provide such information, especially when the purpose is to repay money to a lender 
rather than borrow it. 
However, currently there are a raft of regulations and requirements to which lenders must 
ensure they adhere, not least in relation to guarding against money laundering and other 
financial crime. Principally these are the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, the 
Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, and the Anti Money Laundering Regulations and the Financial 
Conduct Authority's financial crime requirements. 
Capital explained to P and Mrs C and Ms W that as a regulated financial business it has to 
be able to evidence who it is accepting money from, irrespective of how well known a 
customer might be to them. This includes verifying a customers identity, establishing the 
purpose, and intended nature of the business relationship and the origin of funds. It is 
required to have systems and controls in place to mitigate against the risks posed by 
financial crime, and it must continually monitor its relationship with its customers. What this 
means it has to assess all transactions to ensure they are consistent with the knowledge the 
business has of its customer. 
Against this background, businesses must interpret these regulatory requirements and 
implement their own procedures. Naturally, this will mean that some firms will have different 
approaches. Capital had in place a policy which required them to ask for the information it 
sought when lump sum payments over a certain amount were proposed. This is a 
reasonable requirement, bearing in mind the significant and punitive consequences for those 
businesses who fail to comply with these rules. 
Further, its not for me to dictate or recommend how a financial business should conduct or 
arrange its commercial operations and processes. This service doesnt have the power to 
make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change their policy or 
procedures. We only look at what happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint 
and check the business followed its rules and procedures and applied them fairly. The 
evidence provided by Capital shows it followed its overpayment procedures and was 
applying them to P and Mrs C and Ms W as it would to all of its customers.
I also note that at paragraph 4.23 of the mortgage terms and conditions, P and Mrs C and 
Ms W agreed to provide such information as Capital might reasonably require. And I think for 
the purposes of guarding against financial crime, their request was reasonable.
I recognise that if P and Mrs C and Ms W took up Capitals suggestion of employing a 
solicitor to make the overpayment, it would likely incur a fee, but that is something they are 
free to do, or not, as they see fit. Again, on the face of it, it might seem somewhat odd that if 
they were to use a solicitor, the information Capital sought would no longer be necessary, 
but the reason behind that is that Capital would, for their own purposes, be able to rely on 
the solicitor having carried out the appropriate checks. 
I do understand why Mrs C and Ms W would want to note down the advisors surname. It 
would be useful if there was ever an issue arising over who said what to whom and when. I 
also understand why Capital have a policy in place that its employees need not provide their 
surnames. As a responsible employer it must do all it can to protect its employees from harm. I readily appreciate that Mrs C and Ms W might take this as a form of insult, but 
unfortunately there are some customers in all walks of life who behave in a deplorable way 
towards employees of all kinds of business. Whilst that clearly does not apply to Mrs C and 
Ms W, it does not negate the need for a Capital to have in place a protective policy. 
Not being able to know the surname of the person concerned is not however a real issue, 
because all calls are recorded, and each customers account is noted with each 
communication, allowing Capital to identify if need be, who it was who said what.
So, although P and Mrs C and Ms W will probably be disappointed with my decision, I dont 
think Capital have acted unfairly or unreasonably in requesting the information it did, and I 
dont think it unfair that it has a policy in place which does not require its staff to disclose 
their surnames.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P and Mrs C and 
Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman