DRN-2561972
The complaint
Mrs M complained about the advice she received from Phoenix Life Limited (then trading as 
Royal Life) to invest her pension contributions in a single managed fund, which she now 
thinks meant a lack of diversification and unnecessary risk.
Mrs M is represented in this matter by a claims management company, who I refer to below 
as F.
What happened
Mrs M told us that one of Phoenixs advisors saw her at her home in 1987 and sold her a 
pension. She said he didn't go into much detail about where her contributions would be 
invested; although he told her they would be split between her pension policy and a payment 
for insurance.
Following the meeting Mrs M took out a personal pension policy. The policy started in 
September 1987. The contributions were invested in a managed fund.
Phoenix has provided a brochure from the time. It said this would have been given to Mrs M. 
The brochure highlighted and briefly described the six funds that were available:
Equity Fund  this invests in ordinary shares of UK companies
International Fund  this invests in overseas equities
Property Fund  this invests in commercial property and property shares in the UK
Gilt Fund  this invests in UK gilt-edged securities, local authority stocks and loan stocks
Money Fund  invests in local bank deposits, short term local authority bills and treasury 
bills
Managed fund  the money is spread over a selection of investments, including
oordinary shares (in the UK and overseas)
ocash
ogilt-edged securities
oproperty
In November 2019 F complained to Phoenix. They said Mrs M shouldnt have been advised 
to invest all her contributions into the managed fund  it was unsuitable for her as it lacked 
sufficient diversification and there was an unnecessary concentration of risk. Other points 
they made were:
Mrs Ms attitude to risk was cautious
Mrs M should have been advised to spread the risk by investing in different funds and 
asset classes in line with her attitude to risk
Mrs M lost money in real terms, despite a simple portfolio of 50% UK Equities and 50% 
UK Bonds from 1987 to 2008 delivering a compound return of approximately 6,500%
the advice Mrs M received was in breach of:
othe regulator's rules in force at the time of the advice
othe common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care, and
othe requirement for disclosure of material information regarding risks, costs and 
available alternatives.
Phoenix didnt think it had done anything wrong. In summary, it felt the advice was 
appropriate, and there was no evidence to suggest the advisor was negligent or made any 
mis-statements to Mrs M. Points Phoenix made were:
Mrs M would have received the sales brochure and policy schedule, together with the 
policy terms and conditions, which explained the nature of the policy and how it was 
designed to work
it wasnt a requirement at the time for Mrs Ms attitude to risk to be assessed
although inflation has an impact on the value of an investment over time, there were 
potentially 31 years before Mrs Ms benefits would be paid; it was therefore considered 
the potential performance of the investment could still make the pension worthwhile.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt that of the 
choices available, the managed fund offered the most diverse range of investments. He felt 
the other funds were less diverse as they concentrated on specific investments. So he didnt 
think the advisors recommendation was unsuitable.
F disagreed. They said its good practice for an advisor to diversify between different funds 
rather than investing all of a client's contributions into a single fund. They said it was 
common at the time for advisors to concentrate contributions into one fund; but they didnt 
think common practice was necessarily good practice.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. Ive repeated my provisional decision below. It forms part of my final decision.
Issue for me to determine
Ultimately, the issue I need to determine is whether Phoenix treated Mrs M fairly.
F has confirmed that the only complaint point of Mrs Ms complaint is the fact she was 
advised to invest solely in the managed fund, which lacked sufficient diversification to spread 
the risk of loss. So the issue I need to consider and decide in respect of whether Phoenix 
treated Mrs M fairly is whether the advice to invest solely in the managed fund was 
appropriate.
Relevant rulesThe obligations on an advisor advising on and selling a pension policy werent as stringent in 
1987 as they are now. In considering a complaint I have to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  which includes me being fair to both Mrs M and 
Phoenix. Ive noted what F has said in respect of common practice not necessarily being 
good practice  either in 1987 or now. However, I have to decide this complaint based on the 
circumstances and practices in 1987. I dont think its fair to apply todays standards to 
something that happened more than 30 years ago.
There was no requirement at the time of the advice for the advisor to complete a fact find 
document, which would record things like Mrs Ms financial position, objectives, attitude to 
risk and capacity to suffer a loss. The advisor was nevertheless bound by the common law 
requirements, which were:
to not make negligent mis-statements
where information is given, to disclose all material information; and
where advice is given, to advise with reasonable care and skill.
When the complaint was first made to Phoenix F referred to the Life Assurance and Unit 
Trust Regulatory Organisations (LAUTRO) rules. I dont think theyre relevant to this 
complaint because they werent in force when the advice was given  they came into force 
following the Financial Services Act coming into force, which was on 29 April 1988.
F also referred to a legal case heard in the Supreme Court in 2015 (Montgomery v 
Lanarkshire Health Board), which he felt required the disclosure of risks and alternatives by 
professionals such as financial advisors in order for consumers to make an informed 
decision whether to follow the advice being given.
Relevant evidence
In deciding this type of complaint Im generally guided by the documentation thats available 
from the time of the sale/advice and what the consumer and advisor can recall. In this case, 
theres very little information or documentation available to me from the time of the sale.
Phoenix has only been able to provide a copy of the brochure Ive outlined above. All Mrs M 
has provided in respect of her recollection of events is what Ive said above.
The basic argument
Fs argument here is straightforward. They feel by recommending that all of Mrs Ms 
contributions be invested in the managed fund the advisor breached the requirements in 
force at the time by not acting with due skill and care. They in turn feel this led to Mrs M 
receiving a poor return on her investment, compared to ordinary market returns.
There is no evidence supporting Fs assertion that the advisor recommended or advised 
Mrs M where to invest her contributions. Its of course possible that advice was given in this 
respect; but its equally possible that no advice was given and Mrs M made the choice to 
invest in the managed fund herself. I have nevertheless considered this case as if advice 
was given.
For me to find in Mrs Ms favour I must be persuaded that its more likely than not (ie it not 
merely being a possibility) that any advice she received to invest solely in the managed fund 
was inappropriate.Was the advice appropriate? (That is, was it given with reasonable care and skill?)
Its important to note first of all that one advisors recommendation isnt automatically 
deemed inappropriate simply because another advisor (or consumer or consumer 
representative) says it is or feels that another recommendation would have been more 
appropriate. Thats simply a difference of opinion.
I agree with F that diversification is important because it spreads the risk. This is because if 
100% of a consumers money is invested in one place, all of that money could be lost if that 
one investment performs poorly and/or is subject to negative returns. Spreading the money 
into different investments and asset classes helps reduce the risk of the overall investment 
underperforming or losing money. Its therefore important that advisors recommend funds 
that have adequate diversification.
In my view, the investments in the other five funds listed above are quite specific eg the 
equity fund only invests in UK shares, and the international fund only invests in overseas 
equities. In contrast, the investments in the managed fund are well diversified across asset 
classes and industry sectors. And there was nothing complex about the managed fund for an 
ordinary retail investor that would cause any concern. In fact, this type of fund is relatively 
straightforward to understand, even for those who may not have invested before.
Its clear Mrs M was only invested in the managed fund. But Im not persuaded there was 
anything wrong with any advice in this respect or that it was inappropriate. This is because 
the managed fund was sufficiently diverse, which in turn meant that Mrs Ms risk was 
reasonably spread.
Alternatives
F referred to a portfolio of 50% UK Equities and 50% UK Bonds as a comparison to illustrate 
the loss Mrs M suffered. It may be that, with hindsight of over 30 years since the sale, 
Mrs Ms investment might have performed better had she invested differently. But even if this 
was the case, that in itself doesnt mean any recommendation to start a pension and initially 
invest solely in the managed fund was inappropriate.
Conclusion/Summary
I agree with Fs argument that its good practice for a financial advisor to recommend 
sufficient diversification. But if advice was given in this case, Im satisfied this is what the 
advisor did  as the managed fund was sufficiently diverse and it sufficiently spread the risk.
Based on the limited information I have, I think the managed fund in this case was a 
reasonable fit for Mrs Ms needs at the time because it provided a sufficient degree of 
diversification  and more diversification than the other available funds. The managed fund 
provided a balance of lower risk assets as well as more cautious ones. Mrs M was still many 
years from retirement age and I think its reasonable to assume she was able to take some 
risk with her pension investments over such a long period.
The limited evidence Ive seen doesnt indicate to me its more likely than not that Phoenix 
failed to meet its obligations:I havent seen any evidence of a negligent mis-statement
I dont know what information Mrs M was given other than probably the brochure 
Phoenix provided, but Ive no reason to think material information was withheld, and
Im satisfied the advisor acted with reasonable care and skill  as the product/investment 
was reasonably fit for purpose.
I conclude that any advice Mrs M received to invest solely in the managed fund was 
appropriate at the time, and that Phoenix treated her fairly.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both F and Phoenix confirmed that they had no further points or comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further comments or points following my provisional decision, 
my final decision remains as outlined in my provisional decision  for the same reasons.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman