DRN-1190219
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S policy was added to cover their monthly mortgage repayments in 1994. They 
paid a monthly premium for the policy, which covered them if Mr S couldnt work due to 
disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs S case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The sale took place many years ago, so its not surprising that there are gaps in the 
information from the time thats still available. Ive considered the remaining evidence, 
including what Mr and Mrs S say about not knowing the PPI was optional. 
Looking at the mortgage application form Mr and Mrs S signed, I think they were made 
aware they were being sold PPI that was separate to the mortgage and was optional, and 
that they chose to take it. Given how long ago the sale took place, I understand if they 
remember things differently. 
Lloyds has assessed the complaint as though it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S. If 
it did, as well as having to give them enough information for them to make an informed 
choice about taking it, Lloyds should have looked into whether it was right for Mr and Mrs S. 
I dont know what steps Lloyds took but I think its recommendation was suitable for them in 
any case.
I say that based on what Mr and Mrs S have told us about their circumstances in 1994 and 
experience of what the key features of the policy are likely to have been, since I havent 
been provided with the policy terms from that time. For example, it appears Mr S would have 
been eligible for the policy and that it was affordable for them. And I cant, for instance, see 
that hed have been affected by the main exclusions to  or limits on  the cover. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were entitled to generous levels of sick pay through their respective 
employers and that they had savings and shares they could have relied on. However, the 
policy would have paid out on top of any other pay and for up to 12 months per claim. It would have allowed them to retain their savings and shares or use them to put towards their 
other living costs if Mr S wasnt working. 
Overall, and not least because Mr and Mrs S borrowing was secured against their home, I 
think its likely theyd have valued the extra protection the PPI provided.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out everything it should have about the PPI. But I dont find 
that Mr and Mrs S lost out because of any failings. I say that because, for the same reasons 
I think the PPI was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think better information would 
have stopped Mr and Mrs S from buying it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of how 
Lloyds sold them the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman