DRN-4064106
The complaint
Mr W complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) for 
blocking his credit card and for poor complaint handling. He wants Barclaycard to explain 
why blocks were set on his account. 
What happened
Mr W has been a customer of Barclaycard for a long time. Both he and his wife held credit 
cards linked to the same account. 
Around mid-May 2022, Mr W tried to purchase currency for his holiday from a company 
online. The transaction was declined. 
Mr W contacted both Barclaycard and the currency retailer to find out what was wrong. Both 
businesses suggested to him that there was no issue at their end. Mr W had to make a 
number of calls to Barclaycard to find out why the transaction was declining but he did not 
receive a satisfactory response. The card was checked and the agent he spoke to advised 
that they had removed the block on the card in relation to the transaction. 
Mr W was then able to purchase his currency from another retailer. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr Ws insurance premium was charged to his card. 
Several weeks later in mid-June 2022, Mr W was able to use his card whilst on holiday. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr W tried to pay for his hotel using the card and it was declined again. 
Mr Ws wifes card was also declined, and he would have had to use another form of 
payment. 
Mr W contacted Barclaycard. He experienced delays and inconsistent information when 
getting in touch, and ultimately learned that a block had been placed on his Barclaycard 
between 22 June 2022 and 25 June 2022. The block was then removed. 
Mr W wanted to know what the reason for the block being placed was. Barclaycard gave 
unclear information and was unable to confirm to Mr W the reason for the block being 
placed. 
During the few days while the card was blocked, Mr Ws insurance company tried to take 
payment from his card but was unable to. Payment to Mr Ws insurer was ultimately made 
around a week later. 
Mr W complained to Barclaycard. He felt that he had been messed around and caused to 
spend a long time on calls. 
Barclaycard responded. It acknowledged that the card had been blocked for several days as 
a temporary safeguard. It was unable to give a specific reason for this and offered Mr W £50 
compensation for his inconvenience in having to make multiple calls. 
Mr W was not happy and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
They explained that businesses are entitled to block payments in order to protect customers 
and that they can ask additional security questions. They also explained that we are not able 
to consider complaint handling as a separate issue and so could not award compensation for 
poor complaint handling. 
Mr W did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I have made additional enquiries with Mr W. I asked for details of the inconvenience he 
encountered whilst on holiday and for some additional information. He has not responded to 
that request. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr W was frustrated at his experience. It is always frustrating and 
concerning when a transaction is declined, and he understandably wanted to know what the 
problem was. He was away and had limited access to his other resources so it would have 
been of significant worry when the card was declined.  
I agree with my colleague, however, that businesses are entitled to block transactions when 
they have concerns, and they are entitled to request information before removing blocks and 
restoring card use. 
In this instance I can see that Mr W was caused some inconvenience by this, but I have not 
seen evidence of substantial effect on him from the decline of the card, or of Barclaycards 
immediate handling of that block. Consequently, I must agree that Barclaycards offer of £50 
compensation is a reasonable offer to reflect the inconvenience caused to him by not 
receiving an explanation for the block.
I can also see that Mr W experienced substantial distress and inconvenience through the 
way his subsequent complaint was dealt with, and this clearly caused him frustration and 
upset. As, however, complaint handling is not a regulated activity we are unable to award 
compensation for complaint handling when that is the only thing that the business has done 
wrong. 
I therefore understand that this will be upsetting to Mr W, but I agree with my colleagues 
view and do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. I do not ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to do 
anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and I do not ask Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman