DRN-3455087
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has declined to fully reimburse him for 
payments he transferred when he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In saying this, I should acknowledge that 
some of Barclays call notes give slightly different details. I have put most weight on what 
Mr P has told this service rather than the banks phone notes- I will explain in my findings 
why I consider that fair.
Mr P explains he was introduced to a business contact by a family friend. This business 
contact said they were a clothes designer. Mr P was told they already held contracts to sell 
clothing to large, well-known retailers. 
The designer said he was looking for short-term loan funds and would offer to double what 
had been borrowed, seemingly in a matter of days. Mr P says he initially thought it was too 
good to be true. 
But the designer kept in contact and openly shared copies of identification documents with 
Mr P. Mr P says the fact the designer was willing to show these documents helped to 
persuade him to find out more. Unfortunately, it now appears these were fakes.
Before going ahead, Mr P says he carried out due diligence. He asked to discuss the loan 
arrangement at the designers home, but the designer said he was almost never there 
because work was so busy. It was arranged that hed visit a clothing workshop - where it 
appeared the designer had a small team making clothes and some stock. Already the 
director of some small businesses, Mr P was interested in what was being discussed as a 
potential investment opportunity. He was told an investment of £40,000 would result in him 
receiving £200,000 in just six days time. Mr P was given a loan agreement document setting 
out these terms.
Mr P says he thought this high return in less than a week could be possible because he 
believed retailers were making large clothing orders at the time (demand having increased 
following Covid-19). Mr P was given a screenshot that appeared to be a message from a 
large retailer, which the designer said proved he had a contract with that retailer. However, 
the designer said the contract was confidential so Mr P shouldnt contact the retailer directly 
to query it. Mr P says the designer then started calling daily, and eventually said if he didnt 
invest within 24 hours, theyd go elsewhere for the money and Mr P would miss out. 
Mr P sent the money from his account with Barclays on 4 February 2021. In total he sent two 
payments on the same day, one of £40,000 and an additional one of £8,000. He says he 
borrowed money from friends and family with a view to making these investments, but most 
of what he sent was his own money.
The returns Mr P was expecting did not materialise. After some time, he was unable to make 
further contact with the designer and he didnt receive any of his money back. He reported 
the matter to Barclays as being a scam.
Barclays contacted the bank the funds had been sent to in order to attempt to recover Mr Ps 
money. But unfortunately, by the time Mr P had contacted Barclays to report the scam, the 
money had been removed from the beneficiary account and nothing remained to be 
recovered.
Barclays initially told Mr P that this was something he needed to resolve through civil dispute 
rather than being a scam. But it later said it accepted Mr P had been the victim of an APP 
scam. Barclays then considered these payments under the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides 
additional protection when customers fall victim to Authorised Push Payment scams (APP 
scams) such as this one.
But Barclays didnt think Mr P had taken enough care to check this was a legitimate 
investment proposal before hed sent the payments. So, it didnt think it was liable to fully 
reimburse him under the CRM Code. Barclays accepted that it didnt meet all its 
requirements under the CRM Code. It said it equally shared liability for the losses with Mr P. 
It reimbursed Mr P half of what hed lost. It also thought it could have handled things better 
when Mr P had reported the scam so paid him a further £150 to recognise this.
Mr P didnt accept this outcome and referred his complaint to our service for an impartial 
review. Our investigator looked into what had happened. The investigator thought Barclays 
had treated Mr P fairly in refunding him half of the money hed lost. She said Mr P hadnt had 
a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate scheme when he made the payments. 
In particular she thought the promised rate of return within a week was simply too good to be 
true. She thought it was fair for Mr P and Barclays to share the liability equally.
Mr P didnt agree. In summary, he said:
- He needed all of the money back and he was being chased by his friends and family 
for the money hed been lent to pay into the scheme;
- Barclays should have known he was sending the money to a scammer  it has the 
technology and the resources to identify this;
- The fake statements and ID the scammer had provided had made him think the 
scammer was a customer of Barclays  as the scammer appeared to be a Barclays 
customer Barclays should have known the destination account wasnt legitimate;
- If Barclays had alerted to him that this was a scam hed have stopped and done more 
research before going ahead  that would have stopped him from losing the money;
- While hed had limited information, hed made a judgement call that this was an 
opportunity to make £200,000 from a quick transaction because hed thought the 
designer was dealing successfully with a major retailer; and,
- Other victims of the same scam had been fully reimbursed by their banks.
Because of this disagreement Ive been asked to reach a final decision on Mr Ps complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is conflicting evidence, I am required to reach my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words what I consider most likely given the available 
evidence. As I noted at the outset, there are some minor differences in the version of events 
recorded by Barclays in its call notes from around the time Mr P first reported the scam. I have taken Barclays notes from the time of the fraud claim into account, but where they 
differ from what Mr P has explained directly to this service I have relied on Mr Ps 
recollections in the background I set out above. In saying that, I can reassure both sides that 
in reaching my findings I have given careful consideration to all of the evidence before me. It 
is simply that I consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances to use Mr Ps 
submissions to set out the background to this case. In particular, Im satisfied that those 
areas of difference I have identified are not significant in the sense that they would not have 
any material effect on the outcome I have reached.
Furthermore, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, 
Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr P. I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him, and why he doesnt accept that Barclays 
shouldnt take full responsibility. Mr P explains the significant impact this has had on him. 
Hed borrowed money from friends and family who are now chasing up the repayment of 
those loans. He was deceived by a scam that lead him to believe he would make significant 
profits in a very short space of time, but hes been left out of pocket as a result of this scam.
However, the principal cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mr P. It isnt 
enough to simply establish that Mr P is the victim of a scam (which both sides now accept 
this was) to say that Barclays should reimburse him for the money he lost to the scheme.
For me to say Barclays is fully liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the 
bank is required to reimburse the customer under the CRM Code, that the bank could and 
should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in 
some other way.
These were authorised transactions even though Mr P was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. He authorised the two payments and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
In saying that - where the customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a bank to reimburse its customer 
even though the customer authorised the payment. 
Amongst other things, Barclays has a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and to follow good industry practice to keep 
customers accounts safe. It should also apply the provisions of the CRM Code where 
relevant. 
Barclays share of liability
Barclays has already accepted it could have done more here. It has already reimbursed 
Mr P half of the money he lost in recognition of its share of the blame. It has paid him 
interest on that loss for the time he was without the money at the rate of 8% simple. 
Besides this, Barclays has paid Mr P a further £150 to acknowledge it could have handled 
his claim faster and more effectively, which I consider a fair sum in all of the circumstances.I think its worth pointing out that destination bank to which Mr P sent his payments wasnt 
Barclays. Barclays couldnt have had the insight into the usage of that destination account 
that Mr P says it would  its simply the case that the recipient account wasnt a Barclays 
bank account. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays ought to have recognised that destination as 
being a fraudulent account. In such circumstances it could not have told Mr P that he was 
falling victim to a scam  theres nothing to indicate it had that knowledge. 
Of course, Barclays does accept it fell short in what it did. That is why it says it accepts a 
share of the blame for the losses that resulted. It argues though that Mr P should bear some 
of that responsibility.
So what remains for me to consider is whether it is fair and reasonable that Mr P should 
share some responsibility for the losses he incurred. In considering that, Ive thought about 
whether Mr P did enough to verify the legitimacy of this loan arrangement.
Should Mr P fairly and reasonably share liability for his losses?
Mr P was given some documentation by the designer that he explains helped convince him. I 
accept that he didnt realise at the time that these documents were fake. 
But I dont think seeing ID documents in itself should have been enough to convince Mr P 
that this was or wasnt a legitimate business.
I think there were clear signs that this wasnt a legitimate investment opportunity for Mr P. 
The exceptional returns on offer (400% within 6 days) were simply too good to be true. 
Indeed, Mr P acknowledges that he first heard about it he thought this was too good to be 
true  he was right to think that.
He thought that perhaps retailers stocking up after Covid-19 explained why the designer 
could pay him such an extraordinary rate of return in under a week. Im not convinced Mr P 
should reasonably have believed this to the case  there is no explanation why the designer 
couldnt have simply obtained lending from a significantly less costly source. The only 
explanation would be that the designer couldnt access regular legitimate funding. That was 
a red-flag.
The evidence of the designer holding a contract with a major retailer that Mr P has produced 
is simply a screenshot without any details or figures. This should not have given him any 
reasonable reassurance that such a contract existed at all. He did see what appeared to be 
a workshop and stock, but while this might have provided some reassurance it didnt 
demonstrate this contract (or the others the designer claimed) had any basis in reality. 
More fundamentally, the loan agreement document sets out that Mr P would be extending a 
loan to the director of a limited company. That limited company does exist and is registered 
on Companies House. But the listing on Companies House shows the director is someone 
completely different to the person Mr P was dealing with. 
In short, the name on the loan agreement is not the name of the company director. This is 
something I think Mr P could easily have established, even as part of minimal due diligence 
into the designers business.This was a significant red-flag. Mr P was entering into an agreement to send someone 
money who was not the director of the company they claimed to be. At the very least such a 
loan agreement would be rendered unenforceable.
Before sending the sums he did, I think it was reasonable for Mr P to have at least checked 
some basic details for the company he was proposing to lend money to, and checked that 
the person he was dealing with was authorised to sign on its behalf.
Considering the above, I think it is fair and reasonable that the blame for the resulting losses 
should rest at least as much with Mr P as with Barclays. Unfortunately, I think the attraction 
of the significant returns and the involvement of people he knew well led Mr P to invest when 
otherwise he might have had second thoughts. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont require Barclays to reimburse Mr P by 
more than the 50% figure it has offered. I think it is fair and reasonable for both sides to 
share equal responsibility for the losses here.
Does the CRM Code mean Barclays should fully refund Mr P?
I have considered whether the CRM Code would require Barclays to do more than it has 
already offered to do. 
For Barclays to be liable to refund Mr P more than the 50% figure it has offered, Id need to 
be satisfied that Mr P had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were going towards 
a legitimate loan arrangement - because otherwise Barclays is entitled to apply an exception 
to full reimbursement under the CRM Code.
But for very similar reasons to those Ive set out above, I dont think Mr P did hold such a 
reasonable basis for believing this was legitimate. I think the exceptionally high returns being 
offered should have prompted Mr P to do more research before sending a large payment, 
and that had he taken the steps I think he should have taken this would have led him to 
realise the scheme was not legitimate. 
In short, I dont think Mr P had a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate 
investment scheme, which means I find Barclays is entitled to rely on the relevant exception 
to full reimbursement under the CRM Code. Therefore, Barclays doesnt need to pay Mr P 
more than the 50% it has already offered him.
In saying this, Im very sorry to hear that Mr P has been the victim of this scam and lost the 
significant sums he has. But I can only look at what Barclays is required to do  I cannot 
consider the actions of those who have tricked and deceived Mr P. And I need to decide that 
based on the facts of Mr Ps own case  reimbursement of someone else by their bank does 
not make Barclays liable here.
With that in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Barclays needs to do 
more than it has already done and does not need to refund more than the 50% it already has 
paid to Mr P. I understand that this is not the outcome Mr P wants and I recognise what the 
loss of this money has meant for him. But I can reassure Mr P that Ive carefully considered 
all the circumstances of his complaint before reaching what I consider to be the fair and 
reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman