DRN-3862858
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund money 
he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
A business associate recommended to Mr O a trading company (that Ill call B). The 
associate appeared to be doing very well from her investment and claimed she had made a 
substantial profit and had made substantial withdrawals of their profits from her investment.
Mr O was introduced to a representative of B. The representative appeared to Mr O to be 
very credible. Mr O was signed up to a WhatsApp group that contained people who had also 
invested in this company. 
Mr O agreed to invest and made a number of transfers to Coinbase totalling over £40,000. 
My understanding is that these were used to purchase dollars which he then forwarded on to 
B. After several months Mr O was not able to withdraw his profits and after some back and 
forth with B he discovered that his friend had also not been able to withdraw her profits and 
at this point Mr O realised he had in fact been scammed. Mr O believes Halifax didnt do 
enough to protect him.
He reported the matter to Halifax and it didnt think it had made an error, so declined his 
claim. He referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators concluded that  
Halifax had questioned the payments and it had asked probing questions and the answers 
provided by Mr O allowed the payments to go through. So, she thought that Halifax had not 
done anything wrong and therefore the payments Mr O made should not be refunded.
Mr O didnt agree. As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Coinbase, so the starting point 
here is that Mr O is responsible for having made the payments. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
There is no doubt that the payments made were unusual as they did prompt calls between 
Mr O and Halifax. During these calls Halifax warned Mr O about scams involving crypto 
exchanges such as Coinbase. Including that scammers would try and make someone send 
funds to a trading platform which was not legitimate and then keep the funds sent there. 
Mr O in these calls confirmed he was investing on his own behalf, that nobody had access to 
his Coinbase account and that he knows what he is doing and takes full responsibility for it. I 
also note that during the latter calls Mr O was increasingly frustrated at these interventions 
from Halifax.
So overall I think that Halifax warned Mr O of the risks he was taking and that the answers 
he gave Halifax meant that Halifax did not need to do anything more.
I should also add that even if Halifax did go further, and I dont think they needed to. Its hard 
to see how Mr O would have been dissuaded from going ahead with the payments. Mr O 
was recommended the investment by a business associate. This associate said that she had 
made and withdrawn substantial profits. Moreover, Mr O says that he asked a life-long 
friend who lived in Canada if he was aware of B (as it claimed to be based in Canada) and if 
it was a legitimate company and he was assured by his friend, who he says had expertise in 
trading, that the company looked legitimate.
Mr O has explained that as Halifax intervened in other transaction in the past he put less 
weight on the warnings given during these transactions. But I dont think Halifax over 
communicating the risks of scams is a reason why it should be liable for Mr O not heeding 
the warnings given.
So overall I cant ask Halifax to refund any of the transactions. Im sorry Mr O has lost a 
considerable amount of money and I can understand why he would like to be compensated 
for his loss. I do accept Mr O has fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only 
consider whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held 
responsible for what happened. For the reasons set out above I do not find Halifax can be 
held liable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman