DRN-3855789
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) has asked for personal 
information about his employment and income.
Mr F is unhappy with this as he feels Starlings request is intrusive. Mr F believes Starling is 
requesting the information so that it can be used for marketing purposes. Mr F also 
questions why Starling is asking for this information now, given that he has had an account 
with Starling for a number of years.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Starling has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to be able to find in Mr Fs favour, I would need to see that Starling has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in this matter. But having considered everything, I dont think that it has.
I understand that Mr F feels that Starlings requests for information are intrusive. But the anti-
money laundering regulations, UK legislation and industry guidance place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to establish the purpose, nature and origin of 
funds within a customers account. Starling has a set of procedures in place for monitoring 
accounts because of the legal and regulatory obligations it has to follow. Our role is to check 
whether it has followed the correct procedures, and if it hasnt, we ask the business to put 
things right for the consumer.
Having reviewed everything in this case, I cant see that Starling has failed to follow the 
correct procedures or acted unreasonably. Indeed, Starling has recognised that it doesnt 
hold up-to-date key information about Mr F and the source of his funds and so has asked Mr 
F to provide such information via its banking App. And looking at the information that Starling 
is asking Mr F to provide, it is all fairly standard information for a bank to ask for from its 
customers. So in the circumstances, given that Starling needs the information to comply with 
its regulatory obligations, and as the information being requested is fairly typical information 
that a bank will need to know, I dont think Starlings request for Mr F to provide up-to-date 
personal information is unfair or unreasonable.
I understand that Mr F questions why Starling is asking for this information now, when he 
has been a customer of the bank for a number of years. But, as Starling explained, the KYC 
responsibilities place an on-going obligation on banks and other financial businesses to 
ensure they have up-to-date information about their customers. As such, it is not unusual for 
a financial business to ask for such information periodically, even if the account holder has 
been a customer for some time. And this is the case especially if the information being asked 
for was not recorded (for whatever reason) at the time an account was opened, or for 
example, if the business has reason to believe that the information it holds may now be out 
of date.
Mr F believes that Starling is trying to obtain the requested information to use for marketing 
purposes. He says this because on the first page used to supply his details, he says there is 
a section asking for his permission to send him marketing emails, which he can opt out of. 
However, from everything I have seen, Im satisfied that Starling is not requesting the 
information to use for marketing purposes. Indeed, the same screens in the App that Mr F 
refers to also make it clear that Starling will not use the personal information being submitted 
for marketing purposes. As far as I can see, it seems that Starling is simply checking it still 
has the correct marketing preferences recorded for Mr F, whilst it is asking for Mr Fs up-to-
date personal details.
I understand that Mr F is required to provide the requested information in a pop-up screen on 
the Starling App. And the App has been designed in a way that Mr F is unable to get past 
this screen until the information is provided. 
Starling has explained that whilst Mr Fs access to his account is restricted via the App, he is 
still able to access his account and make payments from it outside of the App. So, I cant say 
that Mr Fs access to his account is completely restricted. I can see that Mr F also had a 
savings account and that account was only accessible via the App. However, I understand 
that matter was resolved as Mr F asked for the savings account to be closed. I can see 
Starling has since actioned Mr Fs request and transferred any money and automated 
payments over to his current account. 
Nevertheless, as the information is being requested so that Starling can adhere to its 
regulatory requirements, I cant say that preventing Mr F from viewing his accounts in the 
App, until he provides the requested information, is unreasonable. 
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Starling has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman