DRN-2373021
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tor Currency Exchange Limited didnt handle his subject access 
request properly.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M opened a foreign exchange account with Tor. Shortly after he asked 
for it to be closed. Tor initially said that while it could treat the account as dormant, it wasnt 
allowed to close it for six months in order to comply with rules set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Anti-Money Laundering Regulation (AML). 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained. That complaint is being dealt with under a 
separate reference. 
On 2 April 2020, Mr M also made a subject access request (SAR) to Tor. In particular, he 
requested recordings of the calls he had with members of staff there. Tor released those 
recordings on the same day and sent them, in an encrypted format, to Mr M. 
On 6 May 2020, Mr M contacted Tor and said that he wanted those recordings on CD-R  
and said that he considered Tor had been in breach of relevant rules around responding to 
SARs. 
There was some further correspondence between Mr M and Tor  in particular, Mr M 
continued to say that he had no access to a smartphone, tablet or laptop, and was therefore 
unable to play the recordings in any other format. On 2 June 2020 Tor emailed Mr M asking 
him to share the make and model of the phone had been using to take screenshots so that it 
may advise him on an appropriate application that would allow him to play the recordings of 
the calls. Mr M didnt accept this offer.
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. In short, he was unhappy 
that he hadnt received the response in line with the required timescales, and that he had not 
received copies of the calls hed had with the business in the format that was convenient for 
him. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint, but didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. He said:
There werent any particular rules around the format of call recordings or how they 
should be sent. 
Tors actions in accommodating Mr Ms request were reasonable. Sending them in a 
digital format rather than on CD was also reasonable given that Mr M had made his 
request when the UK was in national lockdown. 
He considered Tor acted fairly and reasonably when trying to find ways in which to 
help Mr M, for example by offering to help him find suitable applications to play the 
recordings. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said:
Tor had acted unfairly during this process. 
Tor had broken the criminal code by withholding his SAR request for more than 200 
days. 
Other companies have provided recordings on CD-R and DCD-R  Tor never offered 
that option. 
He didnt have a computer to open the files he was sent, and Tor took advantage of 
that.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I should start by making it clear that I wont be commenting or making any findings on 
whether Tor broke the criminal code. Id like to express my sympathy to Mr M for the illness 
he is suffering from and hope he makes a speedy recovery. 
In relation to the complaint, Im afraid I dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
said. Mr M made his SAR on 2 April 2020 asking for call recordings. Im satisfied the 
evidence shows that Tor provided these call recordings on the same day. Therefore, I dont 
agree there was a delay. 
Mr M asked for the call recordings in a different format on 6 May 2020. Ive seen the 
correspondence between Mr M and Tor. Im satisfied Tor tried at all times to respond and 
assist where necessary. Whilst Id agree in principle that in responding to a SAR, information 
ought to be accessible, the format which Tor used is widely acceptable and common place. 
That being said, once Mr M notified Tor that he couldnt access that format, Tor attempted to 
engage with him to find solutions to his issue  including offering to advise him on any 
appropriate applications that might help him access the files on his phone. Mr M didnt 
accept this offer. I note that Tor also offered to look into burning the files on CD  which Mr 
M declined - but explained that these files would still not be played by a standard CD player. 
Ive considered whether there was anything further that Tor needed to do given the 
circumstances  and Im satisfied there wasnt. For these reasons, I dont agree it would be 
fair and reasonable to ask it to pay any compensation. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman