DRN-3064004
The complaint
Ms B complains about the advice given by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada (Sun Life) to transfer the benefits from her 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. She believes the 
advice was unsuitable and has caused a financial loss.
Ms B is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Ms B.
What happened
Ms B had an occupational pension that she had accrued working for an employer between 
1987 and 1991.
Ms B says she was approached by an adviser working for Lincoln Financial Group (LFG) in 
1999 to discuss potentially transferring her pension. Ms B has said she was aware of the 
adviser by name as she remembers them having been involved in the management of the 
occupational pension scheme when she worked for her former employer. Sun Life has since 
become responsible for answering complaints about this policy. So, to keep things simple, Ill 
generally refer to Sun Life in my decision.
Sun Life completed a fact-find to gather information about Ms Bs circumstances and 
objectives. It recorded that she was 34 at the time of the advice, single, with no dependents, 
owned her own home, with an outstanding mortgage, and employed. Sun Life also carried 
out an assessment of Ms Bs attitude to risk. It initially deemed this to be balanced. But it 
says Ms B was interested in investing in a specific fund which carried additional risk. So, it 
revised its assessment of her attitude to risk to balanced / aggressive. Ms Bs DB pension 
had a transfer value of £14,490. This was made up of £5,064 in respect of contributions Ms 
B had made to the pension fund and £9,426 earned in respect of contracting out of the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).
In August 1999, Sun Life (then LFG) advised Ms B to transfer her pension benefits into a 
Lincoln Personal Pension, which Sun Life has also referred to, in its final response, as 
Personal Transfer Accounts. The summary of advice document, provided by Sun Life at 
the time, said the reasons for this recommendation were,
a) With your balanced  aggressive risk rating and the long term to your expected retirement 
age, there is a very good chance that you will achieve better benefits at retirement by 
transferring.
b) You prefer to have a wider choice of investment funds that a Personal Pension offers and 
the ability to switch between funds to suit your needs.
The document said that Ms B was not concerned about giving up the guaranteed element of 
this pension as it only formed a small part of her retirement provisions and she preferred 
control over how it was invested. It also said she was happy to forego the death benefits 
associated with her existing scheme as she was single with no dependents. And it noted that 
the existing scheme was apparently in liquidation, with no future plans to improve the 
available pension benefits.
The transfer went ahead in line with Sun Lifes recommendation. It has explained that two 
new accounts were opened  one to receive the transfer of the contributions Ms B had made 
to her pension and another for the protected rights element of the transfer value. Sun Life 
has said this was due to how its systems were set up at the time.
In early 2020 Ms B made an enquiry about taking her pension savings as cash, as she was 
approaching her 55th birthday. Sun Life sent her a summary outlining the value of both of 
her pension plans and said that, if taken as cash, theyd be worth £13,245.27 and 
£24,653.19 respectively.
Ms B then raised concerns with Sun Life. She said she didnt think her pension had been a 
good investment. She also said a colleague of hers from the same former employer had 
made a successful claim for mis-selling so she wanted her pension looking into. She added 
that she had automatically enrolled in her pension scheme by her employer in 1987, and 
hadnt had a choice regarding this. She indicated she thought it had always been managed 
by LFG, and the specific adviser she spoke to in 1999, from the outset. She said she was 
not aware of how her pension savings were invested and had understood these were being 
managed on her behalf by the adviser that had recommended the transfer. She says Sun 
Life never informed her that her pension was not being managed in this way. And if it had, 
shed have taken independent financial advice regarding how it was invested.
Sun Life said a full transfer analysis had been carried out which concluded that Ms B may 
achieve a better return by transferring. It said the adviser could not recommend how her 
savings were invested, he could only look at Ms Bs attitude to risk when making a 
recommendation. And, having done so, the adviser concluded the transfer was right for Ms 
B, also bearing in mind the money transferred only being a small part of her retirement 
provisions and the existing scheme being in liquidation. So, Sun Life thought the 
recommended plan was suitable. Sun Life also said, while an investment recommendation 
wasnt made, information was provided which allowed Ms B to choose how her funds were 
invested. And her pension savings were invested in professionally managed funds  the unit 
values of which could go up or down. And it said it believed LFG had made Ms B aware 
shortly after the transfer that it had changed its operating model, and advisers were no 
longer available.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I intended to uphold Ms Bs 
complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why I thought this.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Sun Life has said that a full transfer analysis was carried out  so it thinks the 
recommendation was correct. But a transfer analysis being completed is not on its own 
enough to say that the advice given was suitable.
The advice was provided by Sun Life (then LFG) in August 1999. At this time, it was 
regulated by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). It was a previous member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). When the PIA took 
responsibility for LAUTRO businesses in 1994, they adopted the LAUTRO rules. And these 
adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case.
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
However none of this went as far as meaning that the adviser could just sell the least 
unsuitable contract from within the providers range. Paragraph 13(4) made clear that if a 
customer required a type of policy that couldnt be satisfied by the provider, they should be 
referred to an IFA.
Ive considered the advice given to Ms B with this in mind.
The representative has said that Ms B thinks all contact regarding this sale was carried out 
by post. And they dont think this is an appropriate way of conducting the sale. Sun Life 
hasnt provided any information to the contrary. But even so, I dont think the sale being 
conducted by post means it was necessarily unsuitable. There wasnt a requirement on the 
business to use a specific channel of communication. And the business was entitled to set 
its own processes and procedures.
That being said, while I dont think the communication channel used meant there was 
anything wrong with the sale, I think there were a number of other factors that made it 
unsuitable.
Financial viability
Achieving a better return on her pension is the main aim that Sun Life has suggested Ms B 
had at the time of advice. And the suitability document said there is a very good chance that 
you will achieve better benefits at retirement by transferring based on her risk profile. But I 
dont agree with this statement for several reasons.
Sun Life said it initially categorised Ms B as having a balanced attitude to risk but this was 
later updated to balanced / aggressive, because she expressed, during the advice process, 
an interest in diversifying her investment and specifically investing in a higher risk fund. It 
has also made reference to the existing pension being only a small part of Ms Bs retirement 
provisions.
Ms B has said she had no other investment backed assets. And none of the information Ive 
seen suggests that Ms B was an experienced investor. From what Ive been told and 
provided, it appears that Sun Life approached Ms B to offer advice, rather than her seeking 
advice on transferring her pension with an investment plan already in mind. Im also 
conscious that part of her original dissatisfaction with Sun Life was that she didnt know that 
an adviser was no longer managing her fund and making decisions for her. This would seem 
to be at odds with Sun Lifes suggestion that she wanted to choose and manage funds herself and that she wanted to invest in a specific fund in 1999  if she thought investment 
choices were being made for her. So, I dont think diversifying her portfolio and taking 
additional risks were genuine objectives for Ms B.
I also havent seen any information, recorded at the point of sale, about Ms Bs other 
retirement provisions  to show that her DB scheme was only a small part of her provisions. 
And indeed, Ms B has said this statement was incorrect and she had little by way of other 
provisions. Which suggests she didnt have the capacity for loss that Sun Life has 
suggested.
In addition, her existing DB scheme included guaranteed benefits. If Ms B was looking to 
take additional risks, as Sun Life claims, with some of her retirement funding to achieve 
greater returns, I dont understand why shed risk a portion of her retirement provisions that 
were guaranteed rather than another part of her provisions (although again details of what 
other provisions she had dont appear to have been recorded). And the documents provided 
dont explain why that potential alternative wasnt discussed with Ms B.
With this in mind, Im not sure Ms Bs risk profile was in fact balanced  aggressive. As an 
inexperienced investor and given her understanding that the fund was going to be managed 
on her behalf, it was unlikely she had a specific fund choice in mind  which seems to have 
been the basis of this categorisation. It is also questionable in my view whether her attitude 
to risk was even balanced, given that she has said she had little by way of other provisions 
so in my view a low capacity for loss. But, given her time left to retirement, I dont think 
saying her attitude to risk was balanced is entirely unreasonable.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at age 60, 
which according to the information Sun Life has provided is when Ms B was interested in 
retiring, was quoted as 7.3% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 7.0% per year 
for 25 years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
Taking this into account along with, the composition of assets in the discount rate, what Ive 
said about Ms Bs attitude to risk and also the term to retirement, I think Ms B was likely to 
receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with her balanced attitude to risk. And even if I 
agreed her attitude was balanced / aggressive, which again for the avoidance of doubt I 
dont, I think it is unlikely shed have received a better return. And I certainly dont agree with 
the suitability report that there was a very good chance of this. At best, given the required 
growth, it seems likely the return mightve been broadly the same. And there would be little 
point in Ms B giving up the guarantees available to her through her existing pension only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme doesnt seem to have been in Ms Bs 
best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and control
The suitability report said that the other main objective that transferring would achieve was 
that itd give Ms B access to a wider investment choice and allow her to choose the funds 
that met her objectives. But again, Ive seen no evidence that Ms B was an experienced 
investor. And her concerns that her pension and investment choices were not being 
managed on her behalf suggests to me that this was not a genuine objective, rather was a 
consequence of the transfer, and has been overstated.
I also havent seen anything that suggests, at the time of the advice, Ms B required greater 
flexibility in retirement in terms of her income. I think given how long it was until she retired, it 
wouldve been difficult to make any definitive decision about this at that time. The information 
from Sun Life indicates she was interested in potentially retiring at 60 at the time. But not 
that she had need for fluctuating pension repayments or that retiring under her existing 
scheme, albeit potentially early and at a reduced pension rate, was out of the question. It 
appears her complaint began after receiving information shed asked for in 2020, when 
looking to take her fund as cash at age 55. Suggesting this may since have become a 
preference. But I dont think this was a known requirement at the point of advice.
As Ms B had at least 20 years before she could think about accessing her pension, I think it 
was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I 
dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Ms B to give up her guaranteed benefits 
when she didnt know what her needs in retirement would be. And if Ms B later had reason 
to transfer out of the DB scheme, she could have done so closer to retirement.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Sun Life has said that Ms Bs DB scheme was in liquidation at the point of the advice and 
the surplus was being distributed amongst the former members according to salary and 
length of service - there would therefore be no future plans to improve benefits. Im aware 
that Ms Bs former employer, under which the DB benefits accrued entered compulsory 
liquidation in 1991. And I can see that a letter sent to Sun Life around the time of the advice, 
from the assurance society responsible for the scheme, indicated the scheme was in the 
process of being wound up. And there was no fund of last resort in place as a safeguard at 
the time.
But the letter also said that the trustees of Ms Bs occupational pension scheme had secured 
the benefits it went on to detail, with the assurance society that sent the letter, for Ms B. The 
benefits detailed  a deferred pension allowing for early retirement and a tax free lump sum, 
including a guaranteed minimum pension, to be revalued annually in line with the retail price 
index  seem to be the same as those Id have expected under the occupation pension 
scheme. The details of how those benefits had been secured are unclear. But the 
information suggests that the assurance society had taken on the responsibility of providing 
the benefits due to Ms B under the existing pension scheme  potentially as part of it being 
wound up. That assurance society was not tied to the former employer. And indeed, still 
trades now.
So, based on the limited information available, although Ms Bs former employer had ceased 
trading and the staff pension scheme mayve been in the process of being liquidated, it 
appears that the benefits due to Ms B were secured via another provider. So, I dont think 
there was a significant threat to Ms Bs pension fund. And so, it doesnt appear that she had a need to be concerned or to complete a transfer because of this.
Suitability of investments
Sun Life has said its adviser could not recommend which investments Ms B place her 
pension fund in and could only provide information in order for her to make that decision. Ms 
B has said she was under the impression her investments were being chosen and managed 
by the adviser that recommended she transfer. Its difficult for me to see how the overall 
recommendation to transfer could be considered to be in Ms Bs best interests without some 
thought about how the funds would be invested. And at the very least, what Ms B has said 
about her understanding of matters calls into question how clear any information given was.
But ultimately, as I intend to uphold the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the 
DB scheme wasnt suitable for Ms B, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of 
the investment recommendation. This is because Ms B should have been advised to remain 
in the DB scheme and so the investments in question wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice 
had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and control offered by a personal pension would have 
sounded like attractive features to Ms B. But Sun Life wasnt there to just promote the 
potential positives or to transact what Ms B might have thought she wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Ms B needed and recommend what was in her best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Ms B was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income in retirement at a stage where she had no 
pressing need to make such a decision. And by transferring, I think Ms B wasnt very likely to 
improve on the guaranteed retirement benefits she already had and, in my view, there were 
no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think Sun Life shouldve advised Ms B to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Ms B would've gone ahead anyway, against Sun Life's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Ms B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Sun Lifes advice. I say this because, from what 
Ive seen, Ms B was an inexperienced investor. She doesnt seem to have initiated the 
discussion around this policy as she says she was contacted by Sun Life. So, it doesnt 
appear Ms B was set on doing anything with her policy. And from what she has told us this 
pension accounted for the majority of Ms Bs retirement provision. So, if Sun Life had 
provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Sun Life should compensate Ms B for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I understand that this complaint started after Ms B enquired about taking pension benefits at 
age 55. So currently I think it is reasonable that this  her retiring and taking benefits from 
the pension at age 55  should be the basis for the calculations.
Responses to my provisional decisionI gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Ms Bs representative said that she, and they, had nothing further to add.
Sun Life said it agreed with my provisional findings and would await my final decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party have provided any further comments for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons summarised 
above, I think the advice Sun Life gave to Ms B was unsuitable. I think it shouldve advised 
her to remain in her DB scheme and I think she wouldve accepted this advice. So, I think 
Sun Life should compensate Ms B.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Sun Lifes unsuitable advice. I consider Ms B 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Sun Life must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
As Ive mentioned, I understand that this complaint started after Ms B enquired about taking 
pension benefits at age 55. So, I think it is reasonable that this  her retiring and taking 
benefits from the pension at age 55  should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Bs acceptance of the decision.
Sun Life may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Ms B within 90 days of the date Sun Life receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Sun Life to pay Ms B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Ms Bs complaint.
To resolve matters I order Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as 
Sun Life Financial of Canada to take the action set out in the Putting things right section of 
my decision, set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman