DRN-1913536
The complaint
Ms M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Ms M. The car here 
was around eight years old and had completed about 95,315 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if the engine failed within a few weeks of driving the car. 
The ACE report suggests the engine failed because of a lack of lubrication and MotoNovo 
say it was Ms Ms responsibility to check the oil frequently. But only three weeks before the 
catastrophic failure of the car Ms M had returned the vehicle to the dealership and theyd 
replaced the oil. Whilst it may be best practice to check the oil more frequently, as MotoNovo 
suggest, I dont think its reasonable for MotoNovo to expect Ms M to have necessarily done 
so after only three weeks. And, regardless, the ACE report doesnt suggest there were any 
oil leaks. It suggests there was insufficient lubrication. And it was the dealership who had 
done the most recent oil change. So, in the absence of any leaks, it seems that oil change 
was most likely not to have been adequately completed.
Im therefore not persuaded that the car failed due to operator error and I dont think the 
engine should have failed so soon after the car was supplied to Ms M. I think it hasnt proven 
to be suitably durable.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should therefore allow Ms M to reject the car and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Ms M hasnt been able to use the car since it last broke down on 8 November 2019, so they 
should refund any finance instalments made since that breakdown.
They should also refund any deposit Ms M made as she has been deprived of that money 
whilst funding a car that was of unsatisfactory quality.
MotoNovo should add 8% simple interest to any refunds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
end the finance agreement at no further cost to Ms M;
collect the car at no cost to Ms M;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments paid by Ms M since she stopped using it on 8 
November 2019. They should add 8% simple interest per year to those refunds from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman