DRN-3364315
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that he was told several times by Scottish Widows Limited that his 
pension policy included a loyalty bonus. He was then told that wasnt in fact correct and his 
annuity was lower than hed been expecting.  
What happened
Mr S had a personal pension policy with Clerical Medical which is now part of Scottish 
Widows. For convenience Ive just referred to Scottish Widows below. References to 
Scottish Widows should be taken as meaning Clerical Medical where appropriate. 
Mr S was 65 in January 2020 and contacted Scottish Widows about options for taking his 
pension. I dont think what happened is in dispute. During a telephone call on 24 January 
2020 Scottish Widows told Mr S his fund value was £26,953.21. The call handler checked if 
the policy had any special features and told Mr S there was a loyalty bonus. 
Mr S had another telephone conversation with Scottish Widows on 5 February 2020. During 
that call the consultant confirmed, after checking with a colleague, there was no loyalty 
bonus. Mr Ss annuity options were discussed. The consultant said he was using the fund 
value as at 24 January 2020 which wasnt guaranteed. Annuity quotations were sent out 
based on a fund value of £26,953.21.  
On 5 March 2020 Mr S telephoned Scottish Widows and confirmed he wanted to take one of 
the annuities quoted  an annuity paying £936.72 pa (£234.18 per quarter) with a ten year 
guarantee. The next day, 6 March 2020, Mr S received two letters. The first said no special 
features applied to the policy and the other confirmed the fund value of £26,953.21 and 
annuity payments of £936.72 pa. I understand Mr S telephoned Scottish Widows who 
confirmed the policy didnt have a loyalty bonus. I think Mr S complained at that stage, 
saying hed had a written quotation. Mr S was initially offered £50 compensation.
Scottish Widows settled the policy using a value of £25,107.37. That was £1,875 lower than 
the value that had been mentioned. No tax free cash was paid and the full value was used to 
buy an annuity paying an annual (gross) income of £872.76. That was again lower than the 
£936.72 that had been quoted. 
Mr S received confirmation of the (lower) annuity on 26 March 2020 (the letter having been 
sent on 19 March 2020). Mr S was unhappy and tried to telephone Scottish Widows but he 
was unable to get through. On 31 March 2020 he sent a letter by registered post which was 
delivered on 1 April 2020 confirming he wished to cancel the annuity. 
Mr S called on 2 April 2020 to check his letter had been received. Amongst other things, he 
said the figures were different to those originally supplied and which hed accepted within 30 
days. That meant hed lose £3,119.30 over a 25 year period. He also complained the letter 
had arrived on 26 March 2020 even though the annuity contract had a start date of 5 March 
2020. And hed been unable to speak to anyone on 26 and 27 March 2020 over the 
telephone.
On 14 April 2020 Scottish Widows wrote saying Mr S couldnt sell or cash in the annuity. And 
Mr S received a letter on 5 June 2020 informing him the annuity payment would be made. 
He called to say that a letter of cancellation had been sent. Later in June he received P45s. 
He telephoned again to reiterate that the annuity had been cancelled. 
The offer of £50 was increased to £300. That was on the basis that Mr S had been given a 
fund value which had incorrectly allowed for a loyalty bonus. And the letter dated 14 April 
2020 shouldnt have been sent as Mr S had cancelled the policy within 30 days. 
Mr S received an annuity payment. He got several letters about returning it. And he had 
further telephone calls with Scottish Widows about his complaint. Scottish Widows wrote to 
Mr S on 2 October 2020 saying the annuity had been cancelled and Mr Ss policy had been 
reinstated. But £218.19 had been paid which Mr S was asked to return. I understand Mr S 
did so on 25 November 2020. 
On 30 November 2020 Scottish Widows said, having reviewed the complaint, a further 
payment of £300 for the additional trouble and upset Mr S had had experienced would be 
made. But Mr S received a further letter dated in December 2020 requesting the annuity 
payment was returned (which Mr S had already done). After some further dialogue with 
Scottish Widows Mr S referred his complaint to us on 25 March 2021. He pointed out hed 
received an annual statement on 22 September 2021 which indicated his policy included a 
loyalty bonus.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. He wrote to Mr S on 21 October 2021 
setting out his views. In summary he said:
Thered been poor service which Scottish Widows had acknowledged and had made 
two payments of £300 as compensation.
Mr S wasnt entitled to a loyalty bonus. Scottish Widows had provided a copy of the 
policy provisions which didnt include a loyalty bonus. A charges sheet had also been 
supplied which confirms no loyalty bonus was applied to single payments made 
before 1 January 1997. The investigator shared both documents. He said, as no 
payments had been made since the single payment in October 1989, the loyalty 
bonus didnt apply. 
Mr S had said the quotation hed received should be honoured  an income of 
£936.72 pa from a fund value of £26,953.21. That showed the income started off at 
3.47% of the fund. The fund value was reduced to £25,107.37 and the income was 
due to start at £872.76 pa which was also equal to 3.47% of the fund value. The 
same annuity rate had been used and it was the fund value which had reduced the 
income from that shown on the original quote.
The notes section to the annuity quotations said the actual fund value used to 
provide the annuity will normally be calculated on the day all the information required 
for payment was received. And that a change to the fund value may result in the 
(actual) annuity amount being higher or lower than that shown in the quotation.
The fund value was the actual fund value on the day Scottish Widows received all of 
the information required for payment. Thered been an error in explaining Mr Ss 
benefits over the telephone, it was clear that, while the annuity rate was secured, the 
fund value and therefore the annuity amount could change. 
The (more recent) annual statement used generic wording for which Scottish Widows 
had apologised. But, by the time Mr S had noted what the annual statement said, he 
was aware the loyalty bonus didnt apply to his policy. 
The fact that a mistake had been made didnt mean Mr S became entitled to that 
amount. Scottish Widows had shown that Mr Ss policy didnt qualify for a loyalty bonus and, as he was never entitled to it, he hadnt made a loss. Hed been made 
aware early in the process and had time to adjust his plans. 
Hed been caused upset and distress. But Scottish Widows had acknowledged that 
and paid a total of £600. That was in the range wed consider appropriate. 
  
Mr S responded by letter dated 15 December 2021. I understand that by then hed encashed 
his pension on 5 November 2021, then valued at £28,937.11. Mr S didnt agree with the 
investigators views. Mr Ss main points were:
Hed been told verbally and in writing that the value of his pension pot was 
£26,953.21. 
Over the telephone on 5 February 2020 he was given a guarantee that the figures 
were valid for 30 days. The annuity was expressed in pounds and pence. There was 
no mention of an annuity rate as a percentage of the pension pot. 
He wasnt a pension expert and it was misleading for Scottish Widows to talk to 
policyholders and put in writing that a pension pot has a specified value and that an 
annuity derived from that has a specified value.  
Hed been given, more than once, a fund value of £26,953.21. Hed had quotations  
as distinct from estimates  which were based on that value. 
Scottish Widows couldve informed him during the period 24 January 2020 up to 6 
March 2020 (some 43 days) that the value had changed. 
The investigator considered Mr Ss further comments and issued a second view on 3 
December 2021. He said hed concentrated more on the telephone calls. In summary the 
investigator said:
On 24 January 2020 the call handler had said the policy value was £26,953.21 but 
that was the last available price and wasnt guaranteed. Later in the call the value 
was repeated and Mr S was told it was a current value  so it wasnt guaranteed. 
What was said about a loyalty bonus being included and which would be lost if Mr S 
transferred away was wrong. 
During the call on 5 February 2020 the consultant confirmed, more than once, that 
the fund value being used was from 23 January 2020. And he explained accurately 
how the guarantee worked  that the annuity rates were guaranteed but the fund 
value could go up or down. Mr S had indicated he understood that. Examples in 
monetary amounts were given to help comparing different options. Mr S had the 
opportunity to ask further questions. He was told about the Pension Wise service and 
it was recommended that he speak to a financial adviser. The letter dated 5 February 
2020 also confirmed that the figures could change. 
Mr S wasnt entitled a loyalty bonus and so not being paid it hadnt caused him a 
loss. Mr S was clearly disappointed by the process and felt the values couldve been 
explained better. But he hadnt been misinformed and hed been able to cancel the 
annuity and so he hadnt made a loss  hed encashed his pension for £28,937.11, 
which was £1,983.90 more than the value he was expecting when he originally 
wanted to take his pension. He hadnt chosen to use the higher value to buy an 
annuity. Hed been compensated for any distress and inconvenience. 
Mr S remained unhappy. Hed been misinformed  hed been told his pension had a loyalty 
bonus. And hed been told, more than once, that the value of his pension fund was 
£26,953.21 and the quotations had used that value too. Hed tried to seek advice. But his 
pension fund was too small. It was for Scottish Widows to provide clear, up to date and 
accurate advice. His pension pot was relatively small and he shouldve been able to rely on 
accurate figures and information from Scottish Widows. Another organisation, such as 
Pension Wise, wouldnt have access to Scottish Widows information. Any implication he was at fault for not seeking advice was wrong. Hed signed a contract under 
misrepresentation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything and Ive listened to the telephone calls. But I havent commented on all 
that happened when Mr S was trying to buy his annuity with Scottish Widows. Instead Ive 
focused on what I see as his main issue  that Scottish Widows should honour the 
quotations it provided to him. 
Mr S has said that Scottish Widows had a duty to provide him with clear, up to date and 
accurate advice. Id just qualify that by saying Scottish Widows wasnt advising Mr S and 
was unable to give him any advice. But I agree that Scottish Widows had a duty to provide 
clear and correct information. And, if errors are made and a customer is unhappy, Scottish 
Widows should endeavour to put things right quickly and in such a way that further issues 
dont arise. 
In summary, during the annuity purchase process Mr S was given incorrect information 
about whether there was a loyalty bonus. That was reflected in the annuity quotations he 
received. He then faced problems trying to cancel the annuity, details of which he didnt 
receive until 26 March 2020, although the annuity had been set up on 5 March 2020. He was 
able to cancel the annuity within the thirty day window but he had to do that by letter. There 
were then further issues. For example, he received a letter which Scottish Widows shouldnt 
have sent, saying he couldnt cash in or sell the annuity. And he wasnt told what his next 
steps were, the annuity purchase having been reversed and the proceeds returned to his 
policy. Mr S was unhappy about other things too, such as the timing of the telephone call on 
25 September 2020 and how the call itself was conducted. 
I dont think Scottish Widows was at fault in respect of all the issues that Mr S has raised. 
For example, although he had difficulty in contacting Scottish Widows by telephone, Scottish 
Widows has explained that, at the time, the service it was able to offer was impacted due to 
Covid and the restrictions in place. I think other financial institutions may have faced similar 
problems. And, although Mr S has criticised the P45 he was sent, the form is a standard one 
in use by HMRC.   
But overall Mr S has received poor service. I dont think Scottish Widows disputes that and 
has offered Mr S, in total, £600 for the distress and inconvenience, including disappointment, 
Scottish Widows failings caused. I think that amount reflects the fact that there were several 
issues. And the degree of trouble and upset Mr S was caused in trying to take his benefits 
from his pension policy, including the disruption, uncertainty and disappointment hes 
suffered in connection with his retirement planning. I dont think Scottish Widows needs to 
pay any more for distress and inconvenience.
In saying that I note that, after Scottish Widows had offered a further £300, Mr S got another 
letter about repaying the annuity payment which, by then, hed already done. And a further 
issue came to light after Mr S had referred his complaint here about the wording of the 
annual statement. But, even taking into account those further issues, I think the amounts 
already paid or offered by Scottish Widows are fair and reasonable.Ive focused on what I see as Mr Ss main issue  that hes suffered a financial loss, being 
the difference in the amount of the annuity he was expecting to be paid (£936.72 gross pa) 
and the amount of the annuity that was actually set up and cancelled (£872.76 gross pa). 
The difference, over 25 years, would represent a shortfall of £3,119.30. 
But the quotation was based on the higher fund value of £26,953.21 which included a loyalty 
bonus to which Mr S wasnt actually entitled. The policy terms and conditions dont include 
one and the charges sheet Scottish Widows has supplied shows that no loyalty bonus was 
applied to single contributions and transfer payments paid before 1 January 1997. Mr Ss 
policy consists of a single contribution made before then and so didnt attract a loyalty 
bonus. 
During the call on 24 January 2020 Mr S was told that a loyalty bonus was a special feature 
of his policy. And the written quotations issued on 5 February 2020 were based on a fund 
value which included a loyalty bonus. So I can understand why, in the circumstances, Mr S 
might think that Scottish Widows should honour the incorrect figures provided. But I dont 
think Scottish Widows is bound (that is contractually required) to honour the fund value 
figure it quoted and which incorrectly included a loyalty bonus. 
Thats because, generally speaking, giving incorrect information doesnt, of itself, create any 
entitlement to the benefits, in error, stated. That said, sometimes, where someone who has 
been given wrong information and has acted on it, the party who provided the incorrect 
information will be bound by it. The legal term for that sort of situation is estoppel. But the 
circumstances where that might arise are very limited. Generally, the recipient of the 
incorrect information must have acted to their financial detriment in reliance on the incorrect 
information. 
I dont think thats the situation here. Mr S may have relied on the (incorrect) information to 
the extent that he was expecting to get an annuity in the amount indicated but thats all. He 
didnt, for example, enter into any financial commitment on the basis that hed be paid the 
(higher) amount indicated. And he was, in the end, able to cancel annuity anyway. 
Mr S might say that Scottish Widows provided him with a quotation which he accepted and 
so a binding contract was created. But, again, I dont think that was the situation. I think the 
quotations (and I recognise thats what they were, rather than estimates) made it clear that 
the fund value wasnt guaranteed. So any contract that might have been created was on the 
basis that the fund value wasnt fixed or guaranteed. 
I think that was made clear to Mr S over the telephone. During the call on 5 February 2020 
the consultant correctly explained how the guarantee worked. It seems Mr S may not have 
fully understood and, because actual amounts were mentioned, he thought the figures 
themselves were guaranteed which wasnt the case. 
As the investigator explained, the annuity rate was guaranteed but the amount quoted wasnt 
 it was subject to change if the fund value changed. Mr S may have been confused by the 
investigators reference to the annuity as a percentage of the fund value. The annuity rate is 
the purchasing power of the fund  the rate at which the fund value is converted into income. 
I think the investigator was just trying to show the difference between the annuity rate (which 
is guaranteed and which didnt change) and the amount that will actually be paid (which may 
change as it depends on what the fund value is and which did change). 
Mr S says that quoting an actual monetary amount gives rise to an expectation that will be 
the amount that is actually paid. But setting out an amount gives a clear indication of what 
will be paid and enables comparisons to be made with other annuity formats (for example, 
an annuity which escalates  that is increases each year by a set percentage to try to counter the effect of inflation). But any amounts quoted are subject to the caveat that the 
fund value might change (for example due to market fluctuations) which will in turn affect the 
annuity amount. Here the fund value didnt change because of market movements but 
because an error had been made. But the same principle applies  that a change to the fund 
value will change the amount of the annuity. 
I dont think Mr S was misled in terms of how his annuity would actually be calculated and 
why it might not be exactly the same as the monetary amount quoted. And the paperwork 
with the annuity quotations reiterated how the guarantee worked. So I dont agree that he 
was induced to enter into the contract by misrepresentation. Misrepresentation in contract 
law involves an untrue statement made by one party on which the other party relies. But 
here the fund value could change and Mr S knew or ought to have known that. Further, and 
in any event, the remedy where theres been misrepresentation is that the contract is void or 
voidable  any misrepresentation doesnt operate so as to create a contract on the basis of 
what that the incorrect information should be treated as being correct. Here Mr Ss annuity 
was unwound. 
The upshot is, although theres no dispute that Mr S was given wrong information, I dont 
think that translates into any legal entitlement to be paid the higher amounts which were 
indicated. 
Although we take into account the legal position, we decide complaints on the basis of 
whats fair and reasonable. Looking at things from a less legal perspective, I dont think it 
would usually be fair and reasonable to say that a business should pay more to a customer 
than they are really entitled to. From what Ive seen, Mr S wasnt entitled to a loyalty bonus 
and so I dont think it would be fair to say that Scottish Widows should treat him as if he was. 
It will however depend on all the circumstances. For example, if an annuity had been in 
payment for some years and it was then found that a mistake had been made and the 
annuity shouldve been less, we might say it would be unfair for the payments to be reduced 
to the correct amount. 
But here the mistake came to light before Mr Ss annuity had been set up  I think he was 
told over the telephone on 6 March 2020 that he wasnt actually entitled to a loyalty bonus.  
Even if that wasnt the case, the annuity that was actually set up was on the basis of the 
lower correct fund value and, when Mr S saw what that meant in terms of the amount hed 
get, he was able to cancel the annuity. The purchase was then reversed and the proceeds 
returned to Mr Ss pension policy. 
And it isnt the case that the annuity he actually bought was lower  either because annuity 
rates fell and/or his fund value was less  Mr S subsequently decided against buying an 
annuity and has encashed the policy. 
So, although I have sympathy for Mr S, Im unable to say Scottish Widows should be 
required to honour the higher fund value figure that was provided to Mr S but which 
unfortunately turned out to be wrong.  
All in all I agree with the investigator that Scottish Widows doesnt need to do any more.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman