DRN-2749379
The complaint
Miss M complained because Capital One (Europe) plc refused to refund her for a transaction 
she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 16 August 2020, Miss M rang Capital One. She said she didnt use the card at all, but 
had received alerts saying the card had been used. Miss M said shed lost the card, so the 
adviser blocked the card, and said there would be a fraud investigation. She arranged for 
Miss M to be sent a new card and new PIN. 
Miss M told the adviser shed had a party in her house the previous day, with a lot of people 
in her home. She said she was worried someone might have gone through her things and 
seen her PIN. She asked the adviser to note that shed had a party, saying that this was so 
she wouldnt be found liable. She said it could have been anybody, and because she didnt 
use the card, it wasnt in her purse but with her documents, and her PIN and card had been 
together.
One attempted transaction had gone through. This had been made at 8.52pm on 15 August. 
It was for beauty products for £54.23, and it was an online transaction, using the CVV 
security numbers on the card.
Capital One initially refunded Miss M, in line with its standard practice. But after 
investigating, it emailed her on 24 September, and said it was holding her liable. This was 
because the merchant had provided evidence to show that Miss Ms correct name, address, 
email address and mobile number had all been given to complete the order. So it re-debited 
the £54.23.
Miss M complained on 26 October. She said the her name wasnt right on the order. Her 
name was a double-barrelled name, but only the first part had been used on the order. She 
also said she lived in a building with four flats in it, and her address should have had flat B 
on the address, which it didnt have on the order. Capital One said flat B wasnt on her 
account address either, but agreed to add it. Miss M said she hadnt received any goods.
In this call, the adviser asked Miss M whether anyone could have got hold of her details. She 
said yes, they could have got her details if theyd been in her room. She said shed asked 
them, and theyd just said she should report it to Capital One. Miss M said she lived with 
several relatives whose names were Miss M. But her name was double-barrelled, whereas 
their name wasnt.
Capital One didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint in its final response letter on 4 November. It 
said the merchant had provided evidence of Miss Ms personal details having been given 
when the order was placed. As the details matched, it held Miss M liable. 
Miss M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said someone had purchased 
goods in her name as Miss M. She said she had half-sisters, a mother and grandmother, all 
of whom were known as Miss M. Miss M said It could be any one of them. She also said 
the address the merchant has wasnt right because it didnt have the B as part of it. Miss M 
said she shouldnt be liable for a purchase she didnt make, and wanted a refund.
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. She didnt think it was likely that a 
fraudster who had obtained a bank card would then use it to make purchases to be delivered 
to the cardholders address, unless they had access to that address. It was also unlikely that 
a fraudster would use the cardholders genuine email address and mobile number. So the 
investigator said Capital One had acted correctly when it found Miss M liable.
Miss M didnt agree. She said she hadnt received a delivery, and no-one had signed for it. 
She asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in August 2020 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Capital One) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
it has provided computer evidence showing authentication.
The disputed payment was made online, so it counts as a distance contract. And as it was 
made on a credit card, the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 is also relevant.
All of these rules mean its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. 
I recognise that Miss M has said she didnt receive a delivery or sign for one. But that isnt 
what determines the outcome.  The regulations are about the authentication and 
authorisation of the transaction. 
Who authorised the disputed transaction?
Ive carefully considered whats most likely to have happened here. Miss M has argued that 
she couldnt have ordered the beauty product because the name used on the order didnt 
include the second part of her double barrelled surname. Im not persuaded that this alone 
proved that Miss M didnt authorise the transaction. The first part was correct, and other 
information on the order was also correct.
Whoever ordered the beauty product on Miss Ms card arranged for it to be delivered to her 
address. I recognise that Miss M said that the address on the order didnt include flat B. 
However, Miss Ms account with Capital One, which shed set up, also didnt have this. And 
nor did her complaint form to this service, where she agreed to the declaration that 
everything shed told us was correct. 
So Im not persuaded that the absence of flat B means Miss M didnt authorise the 
transaction. And I think its most unlikely that a third party fraudster unknown to her would 
have had the item sent to Miss Ms address. There would be no benefit to them in doing this, 
because they wouldnt be able to get the item.Whoever ordered the item also did so using Miss Ms email address and phone number. 
Again, I think its most unlikely that a third party fraudster would do this. There would be too 
high a risk of being found out.
Ive considered Miss Ms party guests, as Miss M suggested they could have accessed her 
card and PIN. But for the same reasons, this is unlikely. They wouldnt have had reliable and 
regular access inside Miss Ms home, after the party. Theyd have needed this to obtain the 
product whenever it was delivered.
So I consider its most likely that Miss M authorised the disputed transaction herself, and I 
dont require Capital One to refund it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman