DRN-3796834
The complaint
Mr R complains that Starling Bank Limited declined a transfer request he made. Mr R also 
complains about problems with the Starling Bank banking app. 
What happened
Mr R wanted to transfer funds to an account hed previously sent money to. Mr R says he 
attempted a sizable transfer to an account in his name but Starling Bank blocked the 
payment. Mr R has told us he checked his banking app but wasnt given a reason to explain 
why the transfer failed and was asked to attempt it again, after submitting supporting 
information. 
Mr R contacted Starling Bank and has told us he was asked to reinstall his banking app. 
After the banking app was reinstalled and verified Mr R was able to complete the transfer. 
Mr R complained and Starling Bank sent him a final response. Starling Bank said the first 
transfer Mr R tried to make was picked up for review and rejected. Starling Bank advised 
there was no bank error and that it stood by the decision to reject the first transfer request. 
Starling Bank didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Rs complaint. They thought Starling Bank had 
dealt with Mr Rs case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr R asked didnt accept 
the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R was attempting to transfer a substantial sum to another account in his 
name, held with a different bank. As part of the transfer authorisation process, the Starling 
Bank app asks various security questions. Starling Bank has provided systems evidence that 
shows Mr Rs first attempted transfer was picked up for review due to the answers provided. 
And Starling Bank says that its decision to decline the transfer based on the responses Mr R 
gave was correct, and in line with its policy. 
Ive looked at the information Starling Bank has sent us. Im satisfied the first transfer was 
flagged for further checks in line with the information provided by Starling Bank. I havent 
found any evidence of a mistake or that Starling Banks decision was unfair. 
Mr Rs explained he experienced technical problems with his banking app after he attempted 
the first transfer and was asked to reinstall it. But Starling Banks advised there were known 
issues with its banking app at that time. Ive listened to Mr Rs calls with Starling Bank and 
accept what Mr Rs told us is the case. The agent Mr R spoke with talked him through the 
process of reinstalling the banking app and arranged for the verification process to be 
completed as quickly as possible. I agree that reinstalling the banking app wouldve been 
inconvenient for Mr R, but we all experience some inconvenience in our day to day lives. In 
my view, the assistance provided by the agent after Mr R raised problems with the banking 
app was a fair way to resolve the matter.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R but I havent found evidence that shows Starling Bank 
made a mistake or acted unfairly when it declined the first transfer request. As Im satisfied 
Starling Bank dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman