DRN-1822813
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc failed to prevent fraudulent activity on his bank 
account. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. Im also mindful that 
I dont wish to put information in the public domain that might be useful to those looking to 
commit crime, so Ill deliberately be brief. 
A third party called Barclays and pretended to be Mr D. Barclays discussed details of Mr Ds 
account with the third party on more than one occasion. As a result of this the third party was 
able to authorise transactions on Mr Ds account to the value of around £1,300. The third 
party also contacted Mr Ds mobile phone provider and falsely reported his phone as stolen.
When Mr D discovered this he contacted Barclays to complain. Barclays investigated. They 
accepted they shouldnt have allowed the third party to pass security during the calls and 
that Mr D hadnt authorised the transactions that had occurred. Barclays promptly refunded 
the transactions to Mr Ds account, they also offered him £300 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Mr D didnt feel the £300 was sufficient and referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and recommended that the compensation be 
increased to £500. Barclays accepted this, but Mr D still didnt think it fairly compensated him 
for the impact of Barclays failings. So, he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both parties that things went wrong here. Im satisfied that Mr Ds financial 
loss has all been correctly dealt with. So financially, he is back in the position he would have 
been in had Barclays not allowed the third party to discuss his account. So, all that remains 
to be decided is whether the £500 Barclays have already agreed to pay is fair compensation 
for the trouble and upset Mr D was caused. I think it is, and Ill explain why. 
Whilst there were undoubtedly failings by Barclays, they acted promptly and refunded the 
financial loss to Mr D very promptly. So I dont think Mr D was left worrying that hed be 
without his funds for an extended period of time. 
Mr D has questioned why Barclays didnt initially provide all the call recordings for our 
investigator to assess. But Im not persuaded that Barclays were trying to conceal anything 
from our service. Theyve upheld Mr Ds complaint from the start and ultimately the calls 
were obtained. I dont think this caused a significant delay in our service addressing the 
complaint or that this means the compensation needs to be further increased. That being said, I can quite understand Mr Ds frustrations and concerns. Including his worry 
that the information the third party obtained might make him vulnerable to further instances 
of fraud. I absolutely accept this has had quite an impact on Mr D and that this impact and 
worry has been ongoing beyond the resolution of the immediate events. 
Much of this trouble and upset could have been avoided had Barclays correctly followed 
their procedures. But £500 isnt an insignificant amount of compensation. And having 
carefully thought about the specific circumstances of this complaint and the impact on Mr D 
as an individual, Im not going to direct Barclays to pay more. I think it is a fair amount to 
resolve this complaint. 
Putting things right
Beyond the award I'm making below, I don't think there is anything further Barclays need to 
do to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay Mr D £500 compensation in total for the trouble and upset 
caused. If the original £300 compensation has already been paid, they need only pay the 
extra £200 to make £500 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman