DRN-3839728
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC:
a. Mis-advised them to cash in their ISA accounts and transfer them to new ones.
b. Has failed to provide them with sufficient information about all of their account 
holding.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J say they were told by Barclays to move their ISAs over to ones with better 
interest rates but it turned out that the rates werent any better. Additionally, in trying to 
account for all of their funds, they requested that Barclays provide them with statements of 
all of their financial products, to include information about deposits, transfers, withdrawals, 
closures and dormant accounts. But they say that Barclays hasnt done this.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagree with the investigators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
As Mr J is complaining on behalf of himself and his wife, I will just be referring to Mr J below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cashing in of ISA accounts
I can see from the available evidence that Mr J was corresponding with his local branch in 
April 2009 seeking clarification about tracker ISAs and how they worked, particularly about 
what would happen if the Bank of England base rate dropped to zero or even into a negative 
position. He also sought clarification about the amount that could be invested. He then asks 
for the new ISAs to be arranged.
In letters to Barclays in June and October 2012 Mr J comments that he has been told that 
their ISA accounts continue to receive interest at the rates initially negotiated and that 
interest would continue to run on the ISA accounts. 
Mr J then wrote to Barclays again in September 2013 saying hed received a letter saying 
the interest rate on some of the ISA accounts would be reducing. He says when he phoned 
a while ago he was told that the interest rates would continue as they were. Mr J later writes 
that surely the Government or the Bank of England cant move the goalposts. In January 
2014 Mr J writes to ask what is to be done about the drop in ISA interest rates.
Mr J does then take steps to address matters and in July 2014 he instructs Barclays to move 
his three existing ISAs into one new ISA for him and Mrs Js three existing ISAs into one new 
ISA for her. He says he was advised to transfer the various ISA accounts into one compound 
ISA each and that he wasnt given promised information about the transfers. 
As I understand it, this is the real starting point of Mr Js dissatisfaction. He says he believes 
he was told that the old ISAs had to be closed but he now believes they didnt have to be 
closed when interest rates were falling. Instead he now thinks he was told this so that 
Barclays could place their money into a new ISA with a lesser interest value income. In 
addition, having later been provided with information on the closed ISAs, he thinks that not 
all the funds were moved to the new ISAs.
Barclays assessment of events is that all the ISAs had offered promotional preferential rates 
for set terms and that they were providing the best rates available at the time. It hasnt been 
able to provide fuller details of this, which isnt surprising given the time that has elapsed.
As our investigator has said, Mr J also hasnt provided any evidence of the interest rates of 
the accounts that were closed and the ones opened in their place. So I dont know the 
reasons why he believes the interest rates on the new ISAs to have been no better than the 
old ones.
Without detailed information about the relevant products its difficult to deduce what the 
situation with their various interest rates was. But what I can tell from the available evidence 
is that Mr J was experienced with accounts like this and was regularly contacting Barclays 
with instructions to move money from one account to another, with an eye on getting the 
best deal. 
Mr J says he couldnt check the new ISA rates were better than their old ones because 
Barclays failed to provide a promised full transaction summary list after the event. But given 
the active way that Mr J managed his finances, Im not persuaded he would have arranged 
to transfer his ISA accounts without checking for himself in advance that the interest rates 
made it worthwhile.
Overall, there is insufficient evidence for me to be able to conclude that Barclays mis-
advised Mr and Mrs J to transfer their ISA accounts or that it resulted in a loss of interest at 
the point of the transfers.
Providing specific information
Over the years, Mr J has regularly asked Barclays for information about his various 
accounts. He has always been very exacting about what he wants and sometimes he has 
been happy with what he has received and sometimes not.
Mr J would like to be provided with concise statements with full details of investments, with 
correct account numbers and the precise amount invested and where from, including full 
information of any deposits, transfers, any interest added and maturity details of where it 
was reinvested or transferred. Ideally he would like the information to be provided as one A4 
piece of paper for each account. Mr J says that Barclays staff were able to discuss individual 
accounts in detail over the phone and should therefore be able to translate this information 
into written documents.
I can see that Barclays has made great efforts to supply Mr J with the information he has 
requested. It has at times provided him with very large amounts of information, such as in 
December 2017 it sent him two letters, one with details of all his open accounts and one with 
details of all his closed accounts. This included the opening and closing dates and opening 
and closing balances with printouts.
As Mr J said that information was insufficient for his needs, Barclays said the next step 
would be to send him copy ledgers of every account. He was unhappy with that as it meant he would have to go through them all. Barclays said it could do no more but that if he came 
back to it with specific details it could provide support in tracing particular funds. Barclays 
then did send him copy statements for all of his sole and joint accounts, both open and 
closed, for a minimum of the last ten years. 
Ive thought very carefully about whether Barclays has acted unfairly in providing the 
information to him in the way that it has. Mr J has described the large amounts of information 
provided as being document bombs which would take months to try and decipher.  
Based on the available evidence, it also appears that Barclays was regularly providing 
routine information about various accounts. But Mr J says that Barclays account at a 
glance information is no good because he needed full information periodically for accounting 
purposes. 
Barclays has provided Mr J with information though. It seems to have provided him with the 
usual information that it would give any other customer about accounts like the ones hes 
asked about. Where that wasnt enough for Mr J, its dealt with his requests for further 
information and given him what it can. So, the problem is not that Barclays has failed to 
provide information, it is that it hasnt provided it in the exact format that Mr J would want. 
But, based on the available evidence I think that Barclays has provided sufficient information 
for Mr J to carry out any further analysis that he wishes to in relation to the movement of 
funds between accounts over time.
As already mentioned, Mr J is someone who has actively managed his investments. For 
example, Ive seen correspondence he sent to Barclays, in anticipation of a bond maturing, 
instructing it to transfer the funds into an everyday saver account at that time and from there 
to further transfer the funds into another fixed rate bond. In the same letter he also asks for 
two other amounts of money to be transferred from the saver account to other accounts. So 
he seems to have had a good overview of the products that he had. 
It seems to me that, in combination with his own records, information provided to Mr J should 
be sufficient for him to track his funds. I appreciate Mr J says that would take time and effort 
on his part. However, I dont think that is a reason to conclude that Barclays has acted 
unfairly. Barclays has said that it could put a trace on certain funds if Mr J is able to provide 
more specific details of monies that are unaccounted for. It follows that I do not uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman