DRN-3576050
The complaint
The estate of Miss G complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited (FIL) and the way theyve 
handled the insurance claim it made following a burglary at the late Miss Gs property.
What happened
The late Miss G held a home insurance policy, underwritten by FIL. Unfortunately, Miss G 
passed away in September 2019. Mrs G, the late Miss Gs sister, was appointed as the 
estates administrator.
In November 2019, the estate of Miss G contacted FIL to make a claim on the home 
insurance policy as it believed at some point after the late Miss Gs passing, her home had 
been burgled and personal items removed.
FIL initially instructed a third-party company, who Ill refer to as T, to make further 
investigations into the claim. And following Ts report, FIL accepted the claim. But during this 
time, the estate of Miss G encountered difficulties with the policy premiums, both in paying 
them and the cost of them overall. The estate of Miss G complained about this at the time, 
and FIL paid the estate a total of £200 to recognise the trouble this caused.
After accepting the estate of Miss Gs claim, FIL then attempted to substantiate the items 
stolen, in order to provide the estate with a settlement. But the estate of Miss G was 
unhappy with the way this settlement was calculated. So, it raised a complaint.
The estate of Miss G raised several issues, which included but was not limited to its belief 
the settlement of the claim should be paid up to the limit of the policy. It didnt think the way 
FIL calculated the settlement was fair or reasonable. It was also unhappy with FILs decision 
to appoint T, FILs response to the Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) it submitted and 
several other issues regarding the way FIL had handled the claim. So, it wanted the claim to 
be settled to the full limit available.
FIL responded to the complaint and upheld it. They provided a detail breakdown of the 
£20,000 settlement offer put to the estate and they felt this was a fair offer, made in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So, they didnt think they should increase it. And they 
thought the previous compensation of £200 they paid to recognise the issue with the policy 
premiums was fair. But they recognised there had been service failings which had impacted 
the estate, and its administrator. And to recognise this, and the sensitive nature of the late 
Miss Gs passing, they paid the estate an additional £500. The estate of Miss G remained 
unhappy with this response, so it referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the settlement 
offer FIL put forward was a fair one, based on the items they were fairly able to substantiate. 
And they thought FIL acted fairly when instructing T to undertake investigations on their 
behalf. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more regarding these issues. And 
our investigator acknowledged that there were issues regarding the policy pricing and 
premium payments. But they thought the £200 FIL had already paid, plus FILs agreement to 
action the £97.51 refund that had been agreed before our involvement, was fair. And they 
thought the additional £500 compensatory payment FIL paid to the estate was a fair one to 
acknowledge the issues the estate has faced when trying to settle the claim. So, they didnt 
think FIL needed to do anything more.
The estate of Miss G didnt agree. And it provided detailed comments explaining why. This 
included, but is not limited to, its belief the police valuation of £32,000 wasnt fairly 
considered. And that the items left to the estate after the death of the late Miss Gs mother 
should also have been considered within the settlement that was offered. The estate of Miss 
G also made comments regarding the involvement of T, and FILs failures regarding its 
DSAR request. As the estate of Miss G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on the estate of Miss G and its 
administrator, Mrs G. I recognise the sensitivity of the situation surrounding Miss Gs 
passing, and the amount of time and effort Mrs G has put in as part of her role as 
administrator. And I dont dispute this wouldve been both inconvenient and upsetting, made 
worse by Mrs Gs own medical conditions she is suffering with at this present time.
But I think its important to note that, for the purposes of this complaint, it is the estate of 
Miss G that is the customer of FIL, and not Mrs G, as it is Miss G and so Miss Gs estate 
who held the policy. So, when considering this complaint, Ive only been able to consider the 
complaints brought by, and the impact to, the estate of Miss G. This means Ive been unable 
to consider, or compensate, Mrs G for any upset shes felt herself directly.
And before I explain why Ive reached my decision; I think it would be useful for me to set out 
the complaints I havent thought about further. I recognise the estate of Miss G has 
expressed concerns about the way FIL handled its complaint. But complaints handling is an 
unregulated activity and so, any complaints about this fall outside of our services 
jurisdiction.
The estate has also complained about FILs handling of its DSAR request. But this falls 
under the remit of the regulator of data within the UK, the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). So again, this issue falls outside of our services jurisdiction to consider. But Im glad 
to see in documentation provided that the estate has already contacted the ICO about this.
And before I outline why Ive reached my decision; I also think it would be useful for me to 
explain exactly how Ive considered the complaints our service can consider. Its not my role 
to re-underwrite the claim the estate of Miss G has made. Instead, its my role to consider 
the actions FIL have taken, and the settlement offer theyve reached, to decide whether I 
think they acted fairly. And to do this, Ive thought about whether FIL have acted in line with 
the terms of the policy the estate of Miss G held. And whether they acted fairly when doing 
so. If I think FIL have acted unfairly, Ive also considered any offers of compensation already 
made by FIL to think about whether they need to do anything more. And having considered 
all of the above, I dont think FIL need to do anything more on this occasion. Ill explain why.Ive first focused on what I believed the be the crux of the estates complaint, which centres 
around the value of the claim and what it felt the settlement should be. I can see FIL have 
offered to pay £20,000 to settle the claim. But I note the estate thinks the claim should be 
settled up to the limit of the policy, which was just over £80,000 less the policy excess.
From what Ive seen, it is clear there is a dispute surrounding which items were in the 
property of the late Miss G at the time of the burglary. And Im unable to know for certain 
which items were, and were not, present nor do I intend to speculate around this. I also think 
it follows that FIL were unable to know this for certain as well.
Because of this, I think FIL were fair to ask the estate of Miss G to substantiate the claim it 
made, as this is standard industry practice. And its set out clearly in the terms and 
conditions that FIL may request information such as the information the estate of Miss G has 
provided. I can see the estate of Miss G has provided receipts, credit card statements and 
photos amongst other information in an attempt to substantiate their claim. 
As Ive explained above, its not my role to re-underwrite the claim nor do I intend to do so. 
So, this decision isnt intended to state what I think the value of the claim should be. Instead, 
Ive thought about whether I think FIL have made a fair settlement offer, considering the 
information the estate of Miss G has been able to provide. Ive seen a breakdown of the 
£20,000 FIL have put forward. And Im satisfied this is based on the evidence the estate has 
been able to provide, plus an additional amount to take into consideration the difficulties 
created needing to provide proof of purchase considering Miss Gs passing. So, I think FIL 
have acted fairly when arriving to this settlement amount and I dont think they need to do 
anything more regarding this unless further additional evidence is provided to substantiate 
further items.
I understand the estate of Miss G is unlikely to agree with this. And I want to reassure the 
estate Ive considered its comments about the valuation mentioned by the police and the 
items left for Miss G by her mother. But the police arent loss adjusters, nor are they qualified 
to value the contents of a home. So, I dont think FIL have acted unfairly when not increasing 
their settlement offer to match the police valuation. And while I recognise Miss G, and so her 
estate, was left items in her mothers will, I dont think this is evidence that these items were 
in the property when it was burgled. So, I dont think FIL have acted unfairly when not 
factoring all of these items into the settlement offer theyve put forward.
I appreciate the estate of Miss G feels the increase in the policy limit in the most recent 
renewal should be seen as evidence of the inherited items. But I dont think this is the case. 
FIL have confirmed the increase in the contents limit was due to Miss Gs policy migrating to 
a new policy from a policy they no longer provided. As Ive seen no evidence to show Miss G 
purposefully increased the level of cover, I think its reasonable for me to assume it was 
increased automatically by FIL and so, I dont think this substantiates the estates claim for 
the inherited items. Because of this, I cant say FIL have acted unfairly in the way theyve 
calculated the settlement offer regarding this. And so, I dont think they need to do anything 
more.
Ive then turned to the estates complaint regarding FILs decision to instruct T. And I 
recognise the estate feels as though this was unfair and has potential ramifications on the 
outcome of its claim.
Again, I want to emphasise that this decision focuses on the estate of Miss G, and not Mrs G 
acting as the administrator. So, while I note Mrs G feels the instruction of T made her feel as 
though she was being accused of acting fraudulently, this isnt something I can comment on any further.
But what I can see is that, within the terms and conditions of the insurance policy it states:
Sometimes we, or an expert we appoint, may wish to meet with you to discuss the claim, 
inspect the damage, or carry out further enquiries.
Crucially, this term doesnt state exactly what qualifications an expert will need, or the 
specified type of work they are known for carrying out. In this situation, due to the complex 
nature of the estates claim, FIL have said they appointed T to understand more about the 
claim to assist their claim decision which I think they were able to do, within the terms of the 
policy. And although I appreciate Mrs G, and so the estate of Miss G, had concerns about T 
and the reason for their appointment, I dont think this means FIL acted unfairly. I think its 
also important to note the report compiled by T concluded that the claim should be accepted 
by FIL and so, the estate of Miss G wasnt negatively impacted by Ts involvement. So, I 
dont think FIL need to do anything more regarding this. 
I can also see its already been accepted by FIL that they acted unfairly regarding both the 
increase in policy premium, and the cancellation of the policy when premium payments were 
missed. FIL have already paid £200 to the estate of Miss G, and they have confirmed they 
will refund the estate of Miss G the payment of £97.51 that they agreed to do but failed to 
action. This is on top of the waived premium of about £143.86. Considering the above, I 
think the actions FIL have taken have covered any financial loss incurred by the estate. And 
I think the compensation adequately recognises any inconvenience caused to the estate as 
the policy was reinstated and so, its ability to make a claim hasnt been impacted. Because 
of this, I dont think FIL need to do anything more in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
Finally, I recognise FIL have paid the estate of Miss G an additional £500 to recognise the 
inconvenience the estate, and Mrs G as its administrator, will have been caused during the 
lifetime of the claim. While I cant consider any impact to Mrs G, I do recognise the claim has 
been ongoing for some time. And I think its likely there have been some delays that can be 
attributed to FIL and the confusion theyve caused at times, for example when the 60-day 
unoccupancy exclusion was discussed without the need to do so. And I think these delays 
have impacted the length of time it took for the estate to receive a settlement offer from FIL. 
But I think the £500 FIL have paid reasonably compensates the estate for any delay in 
receiving a settlement offer, plus any other inconvenience it may have experienced. So, I 
dont think FIL need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome the estate of Miss G, and its administrator Mrs G, were 
hoping for. I want to reassure the estate of Miss G that all of the complaints, comments and 
information it provide has been considered at length, even if it hasnt been directly 
commented upon within this decision. And I also want to recognise the matter regarding the 
burglary is still ongoing, and that there is both a criminal and civil dispute between the estate 
of Miss G and the accused. 
But I think its crucial to explain that it is not FILs role to become involved in the civil and 
criminal matters. Nor is any settlement they offer under the policy designed to cover the 
estates losses through the civil matter. 
Instead, FILs sole purpose is to accept and substantiate the insurance claim and provide a 
fair and reasonable settlement offer, based on the evidence and information available to 
them. And I think they have on this occasion. It is now up to the estate of Miss G to decide 
whether they wish to accept the settlement offer FIL have made.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the estate of Miss Gs complaint about 
Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
G to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman