DRN-3316973
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 
August 2011 by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R says that she felt she had to upgrade due to her overdraft fees and the URCA was 
unsuitable for her.
BOS says that Mrs R chose to upgrade to an URCA based on the information it supplied in 
its online application process.
BOS has supplied evidence that in my view shows the upgrade was done online, and Mrs R 
has not disputed this.
Mrs R previously had a fee free account, so she knew these were available. And the BOS 
online process required Mrs R to consent to the upgrade following provision of information 
about it.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs R knew she had a choice and chose to take out 
the URCA based on the information provided in the online process.
I cant see any evidence of advice being given through the online process, so this sale was 
information only, which means BOS was only required to provide enough information for Mrs 
R to make an informed decision about it.
And I think it did. I say this because I cant see that BOS failed to provide any information in 
the online process about the URCA that was relevant to Mrs R in her circumstances. And it 
has provided evidence that it sent her a welcome pack after the sale and a substantial 
amount of update and reminder communication in subsequent years.
I can also see why Mrs R might have been interested in the URCA. She immediately 
benefitted from the cheaper overdraft facility and she had a home, a car, a mobile phone, 
and she travelled regularly. So, she could benefit from the insurance benefits the URCA 
provided. She wasnt required to register for these insurances, so she had cover for her 
home emergency, car breakdown and travel needs over the full period she held the account.
Mrs R has said that she had some alternative cover, but that would have been for her to 
cancel if she didnt need it. And although she didnt need to claim, the cover was still there.
So, overall, I cant see that BOS did anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman