DRN-3792759
The complaint
Mr J says U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt compensate him properly for the poor service 
it provided when he tried to renew his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Js policy was due to renew on 9 February 2022. He told us he was unable to renew it 
online in good time as a result of UKI having two email addresses for him. UKI emailed Mr J 
on 1 February 2022 to say that a system failure meant his attempted renewal by phone had 
also failed. But it said hed be covered from the date hed requested cover (the renewal date) 
for 21 days from the date of its correspondence, and that he should contact it again within 
that time to renew the policy. 
Mr J thought UKIs letter was ambiguous - so he felt he couldnt rely on it. He says he then 
struggled to contact UKI by phone due to very long waiting times. So he decided not to drive 
his car. Mr J says he spent between 20 and 30 hours in call queues, and that the only other 
option UKI had offered him was contacting it through social media routes that he doesnt 
use. He finally renewed the policy by phone on 16 February 2022. In the meantime, Mr J 
made a formal complaint to UKI. It wasnt progressed because UKI asked for personal 
details from him that he wouldnt provide by email due to his concerns about security.
UKI provided a final response to Mr Js complaint in September 2022, after we advised it that 
hed complained to us. It said there were technical problems with the renewal and confirmed 
that it held two email addresses for him. UKI upheld Mr Js complaint and paid him £75 
compensation for the time hed spent trying to resolve the situation. As hed also complained 
that he hadnt received a refund of premium  due on a scheme for customers like Mr J, who 
had reduced mileage during the policy year - it refunded £25 to him for that. 
Mr J didnt say he was unhappy with the refund, but he wanted more compensation for the 
time spent in call queues, and also for not being able to drive his car for a week. One of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint, but she didnt think compensation for a weeks loss of 
use was merited. She said UKI had undertaken to cover Mr J for the period after the end of 
the previous policy, so he could have driven his car. 
Mr J said as he didnt think he could rely on the document UKI had sent him, it would have 
been dangerous to drive his car - and that UKIs letter didnt mention the associated 
breakdown cover. He pointed out that hed told UKI about his new email address a year 
earlier, so there was no reason for it to hold two email addresses for him. He said UKI made 
it hard to complain by only allowing contact through social media. And he said it didnt need 
personal details from him for the complaint, as it had them from his previous policy.
The investigator said we couldnt consider the situations that Mr J thought might have 
happened had he driven his car, as we can only look at what actually happened. She said 
UKI didnt limit contact to social media routes, and that anyway, we cant tell an insurer how 
to run its business. Mr J replied to say that in terms of being covered by UKIs written 
assurance, he took a cautious approach to risk. He also said UKI should have called him to 
renew the policy, as hed requested, since it had caused the problems with the renewal. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think UKIs written assurance that it would cover Mr J from the date he wanted cover 
to start was ambiguous. And if Mr J had tried to renew the associated breakdown cover as 
well, then I dont think he had any reason to assume that UKI wouldnt honour that too. 
It isnt unusual for insurers to give assurances about cover or to backdate it when - for 
technical or other reasons - a policy isnt in place when it should be. Mr J says there could 
have been dire consequences from not being insured and not having an insurance 
certificate. In the circumstances here, I dont think those concerns were justified. Mr J was 
entitled to decide not to drive his car anyway, but I dont think it would be reasonable to 
require UKI to compensate Mr J for that decision, when it had assured him in writing that he 
was covered, and he had no reason to assume that he wasnt. 
Mr J thinks he spent over 20 hours in call queues. UKI cant trace calls that are held in 
queues but arent answered, so we dont know the exact waiting time he faced. But it must 
have been very frustrating for Mr J to have been on hold for an excessive amount of time. 
Unfortunately many consumers have a similar experience when trying to contact their 
insurers. That doesnt make it right, but we arent the industry regulator. We cant instruct 
UKI or other insurers how to organise business processes, such as their call systems - or 
what policy to adopt for dealing with consumers who request calls from them.
Most consumers arent compensated for long waiting times in call queues. But here, UKI 
recognised that the renewal issue that led to the calls being made stemmed from its error. It 
accepted that it was at fault and in my opinion it paid adequate compensation to Mr J. The 
sum it awarded was in line with the sum I would have required it to pay otherwise. 
I dont think Mr J has shown that UKI insisted on him contacting it through social media 
channels. I think its clear from the correspondence Ive seen that it also said he could call, 
use its online chat option or email. And in the end, Mr J managed to renew the policy by 
phone, despite the process being frustrating and time-consuming. 
In my opinion, UKI didnt ignore Mr Js complaint. It couldnt proceed with it until it identified 
him, in line with its security policy requirements. We cant instruct UKI what the content of its 
policies should be. Many organisations (including this one) ask consumers for personal 
details that are already held by them, as part of their data protection process. I understand 
Mr Js concerns about email security, but I think he could have provided the details by other 
means. And I dont think the outcome of Mr Js complaint was prejudiced by UKI not 
progressing it anyway. He was able to bring it to us when UKIs process stalled, and UKI 
provided a final response to the complaint subsequently. 
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, and I can see why he was frustrated by 
UKIs processes and by the error and the technical issue that affected his renewal. But I 
think UKI tried to put matters right by putting cover in place initially and by paying Mr J 
adequate compensation. As I think UKI acted reasonably, I cant uphold Mr Js complaint.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman