DRN-1664890
The complaint
Mr M complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr M acquired a second-hand car costing £10,150 funded by a deposit of 
£2,150 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. The car was some seven years old 
and had covered 43,320 miles.
On the day of purchase the car suffered a problem with the alternator causing Mr M 
inconvenience. This was repaired and Mr M took the car to a main dealer for a diagnostic 
test which showed that there was a problem with the battery. The test cost £202.80. Mr M 
says he was told there had been two manufacturers recalls which hadnt been actioned. 
He says the car was clamped after he acquired it due to unpaid parking tickets from a 
previous owner. He also says that when he washed the car, he discovered a number of 
marks, a cracked indicator light and a disengaged bumper.
Secure Trust rejected his complaint. It said the dealer had offered Mr M £60 for a diagnostic 
test, but he had taken the car to a main dealer which had charged significantly more. It also 
said that it was unable to identify any recalls and in any event Mr M should refer the car to 
the manufacturers for any remedial action needed. It suggested Mr M contact the dealer 
regarding the parking tickets. As for the battery that Secure Trust regarded that as a wear 
and tear issue.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She didnt recommend it be upheld. Our investigator said it was agreed there 
was a fault with the battery, but she considered this to be due to wear and tear. She also 
said that the fault with the alternator which had been repaired didnt make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality such that rejection be a reasonable resolution. Mr M didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Secure Trust is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I can see that Mr M was disappointed with the car, but I dont consider I can uphold his 
complaint. I will explain why.
The car was relatively old and it is to be expected that complex mechanical machines such 
as cars will suffer wear and tear and parts will fail. It is regrettable that the alternator failed 
on the day Mr M acquired the car, but it was repaired and I consider that to have been a 
reasonable response. I dont consider that failure to be such that it merits rejection. 
On the matter of the battery it is a fact that these items do give out after a period of time and 
will have to be replaced. They are renewable items and it is not unreasonable to have to 
replace a battery after seven years.
Secure Trust has no responsibility for the parking tickets and this is a matter for Mr M to 
resolve with the dealer. As for the marks on the car including the bumper and indicator light it 
was open to Mr M to inspect the car before acquisition and to make a decision as to whether 
it was satisfactory. I cannot hold Secure Trust responsible in that regard.
Finally, I have checked the Government MOT website and this states that there are no 
outstanding safety recalls for this car. I have concluded there is no basis for me allowing the 
rejection of this car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman