DRN-2168957
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) and their failure to 
submit several of their claims before the Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) deadline.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H initially contacted WFAC in March 2017, where they discussed submitted 
claims for mis-sold PPI. WFAC sent Mrs H and Mr H a pack to complete that would allow 
them to submit claims to lenders on Mrs H and Mr Hs behalf.
Mrs H and Mr H returned this pack to WFAC on 28 August 2019, the day before the deadline 
to submit claims of this nature. There were several Letters of Authority (LOA) that werent 
signed, meaning WFAC were only able to submit one claim on this day. They spoke to Mrs 
H and Mr H the following day, the day of the deadline, and explained theyd submit any 
further claims where LOAs had be signed before midnight. Mrs H and Mr H signed several 
forms on the advice provided by WFAC that the claims would be submitted in time.
But this wasnt the case. When Mrs H and Mr H asked WFAC for an update in September 
2019, they were told any claims theyd returned documents for on the 29 August hadnt been 
submitted in time. So, those claims wouldnt be considered by the lenders. Mrs H and Mr H 
were unhappy with this, so they raised a complaint.
Mrs H and Mr H were unhappy theyd been told the claims would be submitted and then 
hadnt. Mrs H and Mr H said they explained to the call handler they would submit the claims 
to the lenders directly themselves if WFAC couldnt submit them on their behalf. So, they felt 
theyd been lied to and had now lost the opportunity to claim on several accounts were PPI 
may have been mis-sold. So, they wanted WFAC to cover the cost of their prospective 
losses.
WFAC responded and upheld the complaint. They explained that a system fault meant 
documents received on 29 August werent recognised as received, meaning they werent 
sent to the lenders until 30 August, which fell after the PPI deadline. They apologised for this 
and offered Mrs H and Mr H £100 to recognise the fact theyd missed the chance to submit 
claims to the lenders. But they didnt offer to cover Mrs H and Mr Hs prospective losses, as 
they were unable to say whether the claims would or would not have been successful. Mrs H 
and Mr H were unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought WFAC had made an 
error by not sending the documents before the deadline. And they didnt think the £100 
WFAC was enough to recognise Mrs H and Mr Hs loss of opportunity, and the upset it 
wouldve caused. But she didnt think it was fair to ask WFAC to cover any prospective 
losses, as there was no way of knowing whether the claims wouldve been successful. So, 
they recommended WFAC pay Mrs H and Mr H an extra £100, putting the total 
compensation at £200.
WFAC accepted this recommendation. But Mrs H and Mr H didnt. They didnt think the total 
compensation amount was fair or adequate. As Mrs H and Mr H didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact the complaint has had on Mrs H and Mr H. Ive no doubt 
they submitted the paperwork to WFAC under the impression it was guaranteed the claims 
would be submitted. So, when they werent, and they realised they had no way of submitting 
them, I can appreciate the upset this wouldve caused.
Its not in dispute that the failure to submit the claims resulted from an error WFAC made. 
Theyve confirmed a system failure meant forms received on the day of the deadline werent 
submitted till the day after the deadline had passed. Because of this, Im satisfied WFAC did 
something wrong and they should compensate Mrs H and Mr H for this. 
But I am also aware that Mrs H and Mr H first spoke to WFAC in 2017. And despite this, they 
didnt contact WFAC until two days before the PPI deadline. This meant that WFAC were left 
without any room for error in a very time sensitive situation. While I dont think this impacts 
the fact WFAC made an error and failed to uphold the promise they made Mrs and Mr H, Ive 
thought about this in the context of what I think WFAC should fairly do to recognise the error 
they made.
Putting things right
Im aware Mrs H and Mr H didnt think the recommendation of our investigator was 
adequate. And this was because they felt theyd lost out financially as they believed it was 
likely several the claims wouldve been successful.
But for me to consider this, Id need to see evidence that PPI was present on the accounts 
Mrs H and Mr H wanted to claim against. And even if that was the case, it wasnt a 
guarantee that the PPI was mis-sold on the policy. Mrs H and Mr H were given the 
opportunity to obtain evidence to show PPI was present so I could consider this before 
making my decision. But from the documents Ive been provided, I cant see thats the case. 
So, Ive considered what I think is fair to compensate Mrs H and Mr H for their loss of 
opportunity to know whether they had any successful claims.
And having done so, I think the total compensation amount of £200 is a fair one. I think this 
offer recognises the upset Mrs H and Mr H felt when they realised the claims hadnt been 
submitted. It also takes into account the fact they queried whether the claims would be 
submitted with WFAC and they were reassured they were.
But I think it also takes into account the fact Mrs H and Mr H didnt submit the claims until the 
last two days before the PPI deadline, when they were aware they couldve submitted the 
claims from March 2017. I appreciate Mrs H and Mr H say they wouldve submitted the 
claims themselves, but I must also take into consideration the fact they had two years to do 
this after first speaking to WFAC. And they didnt do so. So, I cant say for certain that they 
wouldve done.And finally, it takes into consideration the fact I cant say for certain that any of the claims 
wouldve been upheld. I gave Mrs H and Mr H the opportunity to provide evidence of PPI on 
their accounts as this may have convinced me there was a greater loss of opportunity, as 
PPI was present. But I wouldnt have been able to say for certain the claims wouldve been 
upheld by the lenders as mis-sold. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to say 
WFAC should cover these financial losses.
Its our role to place Mrs H and Mr H back in the position they wouldve been, had the error 
not occurred. Its not our role to place them in a better position. And if I was to decide that 
WFAC should compensate them for potential financial losses, and none of the claims 
wouldve been successful, Mrs H and Mr H would be left in a better financial position. And 
that wouldnt be fair on WFAC and for that reason, its not something I can do.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs H and Mr H were hoping for. But I hope this decision 
goes some way to explaining what this service is and isnt able to consider. And gives more 
clarity on why I think the total compensation amount of £200 is fair in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint against We Fight Any 
Claim Limited and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs H and Mr H £200 to recognise their loss of opportunity and the upset this 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman