DRN-3926882
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the service they received from Tilney Investment 
Management Services Limited (Tilney) during the pandemic in 2020. As a result, their 
SIPPs and ISAs have suffered a loss of around £40,000.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held their SIPP and ISA portfolios with Tilney on a discretionary basis. 
Because of the falls in the stock market during the pandemic Mr and Mrs B instructed Tilney 
to switch their portfolios to cash on 28 February 2020. A meeting with Tilney followed and 
the instruction to sell went ahead on 13 March. 
Mr and Mrs B were to be advised when the stock market started fully rebound in order for 
them to reinvest. Mr and Mrs B say this was from 24 March onwards and reinvested on        
5 June. As of 10 June, they hadnt received any comment from Tilney. They raised a 
complaint.
In its response on 27 July 2020 Tilney didnt uphold the complaint; 
It managed Mr and Mrs Bs portfolios on a discretionary basis and it took a long-term 
approach. It didnt think it was right to move to cash and would not have 
recommended it.
It had not ignored the instruction to sell. A meeting had been held and the options 
available to Mr and Mrs B were clarified, and the sales went ahead.
It had a regulatory obligation to inform Mr and Mrs B if their portfolio fell by more than 
10% in a quarter. It had failed to do this at the end of the business day but the 
difficulty of the circumstances of the time had been recognised by the regulator.
It wasnt for Tilney to advise Mr and Mrs B when to reinvest. Its house view was that 
it doesnt try and market time. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with the outcome and brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said;
She didnt think the four-day delay in the 10% fall notification being sent to Mr and 
Mrs B had any financial impact on them. 
Tilney had acted promptly in its responses to Mr and Mrs B and in arranging the 
meeting.
She didnt think Tilney should have contacted Mr and Mrs B prior to them reinvesting 
on 5 June. The stock market was volatile and uncertain, and Mr and Mrs B had made 
it clear they wanted to avoid suffering further losses. 
Tilney had been clear in explaining the situation and the level of care given in its 
responses was in line with what would be expected. The investigator couldnt 
conclude that Mr and Mrs B hadnt been treated fairly.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and maintained that Tilney were required to advise them of any 
significant rise or falls in the market above 10% and they didnt. As a consequence, they had 
suffered a potential loss of between £30,000 and £40,000 in their SIPPs and ISAs. 
As the complaint could be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why.
However, I should first like to say how sorry I am to learn about Mr Bs current poor health, 
and I appreciate their efforts in bringing their complaint during what must be a very difficult 
time for both Mr and Mrs B. 
Notification in the fall in value of Mr and Mrs Bs portfolios
Under the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) Tilney has a regulatory obligation to inform 
its clients where the value of the customers portfolio falls by 10% or more compared with its 
value in the last periodic statement and each subsequent 10% fall. This has to be done no 
later than the end of the business day.
Tilney wrote to Mr B on 18 March 2020 in line with its regulatory responsibility to inform him 
that the value of his portfolio had fallen by 10% since the end of the last quarter. It concluded 
that it was important that investors look to the long term and resist the urge to react to short-
term market movements at the cost of long-term fundamentals and the risk of being out of 
the market during the recovery periods.
Mr and Mrs B have said that Tilney failed in its duty and which caused the losses they 
suffered. But I dont agree. I dont think this notification alone would have made any 
difference to Mr and Mrs Bs financial circumstances. Its evident from the correspondence 
on file and actions that Mrs and Mrs B took they were very aware of what was going on in 
the stock market and the volatility that was occurring. And I dont think its unreasonable to 
assume they would have known that such volatility would have had an impact on their 
portfolios, and they would have fallen in value. 
Mr and Mrs Bs portfolios fell by more than 10% on 12 March and Tilney didnt alert them to 
this until four business days later. But Im not convinced this delay would have made any 
difference as its evident Mr and Mrs B were sufficiently aware of the falling values, hence 
their earlier instruction to sell their assets to cash on 28 February. 
I dont think any notification of a 10% fall before 18 March would have altered their decision 
to sell as evidenced by the sales that did take place which were against the 
recommendations of Tilney. And the instruction for those sales was given on 13 March so 
the day after the notification should have been received. So even if that notification had been 
sent on time. I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have acted any more quickly in giving the 
instruction they did on 13 March. 
The FCA issued a letter to financial firms on 31 March 2020 and I note it recognised there 
was some regulatory flexibility in businesses contacting customers about 10% falls in the 
value of their portfolios. For a period of six months it wouldnt take any action if the business 
had contacted the customer only once about a 10% fall  and not any subsequent falls. So, the regulator recognised the sharp and significant falls in the stock market were causing an 
operational burden to businesses in such a highly volatile market. 
Overall, I dont agree that the delay in sending the 10% fall notification had any impact on  
Mr and Mrs Bs investment decisions and I dont find that it caused any additional loss. 
The sale instruction
On 28 February 2020 Mr and Mrs B emailed Tilney to request that with immediate effect I 
think it best to switch all of our funds to cash until the stock market recovers.
Tilney responded immediately to clarify whether Mr and Mrs B did want to make the sales 
and cautioned against them trying to over trade around such uncertainty. It believed the key 
to successful investing is to focus on long-term returns from a diversified mix of assets that 
aligns to your own risk tolerance. A meeting was arranged for the next business day,           
2 March. 
Further to the meeting, Tilney emailed Mr and Mrs B on 3 March to confirm the options that 
had been discussed and which were available to them which were;
1) to sell all of your portfolio into cash
2) to sell just the equity portion of your portfolio
3) to do nothing and allow [Tilneys representative] to just manage the portfolio                                        
ongoing
4) to reduce the overall risk profile.
Ten days later Mr and Mrs B emailed their instruction to proceed with encashment of the 
portfolios on 13 March. 
I think Tilney acted appropriately here. Mr and Mrs B were discretionary clients  which 
meant Tilney had discretion over what actions should be taken with their portfolios. I would 
expect a client to fully understand the ramifications of a discretionary relationship and be 
comfortable with it. The alternative otherwise would be to opt for an advisory or execution 
only account. I note that Mr and Mrs B had been clients of Tilney since 2017 so were aware 
of how the agreement worked but I appreciate the market volatility had caused them 
concern. 
And the underlying assets were theirs and they could act with those assets as they chose to 
do. But I think Tilney was right to seek clarification of the sale request and arrange a meeting 
in which it could suggest caution in taking the action that Mr and Mrs B wanted to take. And 
Tilney acted extremely quickly in arranging that meeting bearing in mind the circumstances 
and in light of the  no doubt  many concerned enquiries it would have been receiving from 
its clients. 
I think Tilney would have been remiss if it had just acted on Mr and Mrs Bs instruction 
without seeking some sort of assurance that they were sure they wanted to take it. They 
were acting against Tilneys professional investment opinions  a service for which they paid 
 and it needed make sure Mr and Mrs B were aware of the ramifications and possible 
outcome of taking such action. 
I dont think that Tilney acted incorrectly when it was asked to sell Mr and Mrs Bs portfolios. 
The reinvestmentOn 1 April Mr and Mrs B wrote to Tilney requesting some valuations of their portfolio and 
concluded with Presumably there is no point returning to the market until this virus situation 
looks to be under control, which I assume wont be for another 3-6 months? Please advise 
us when you believe the market starts to fully rebound.
As part of its response Tilney did refer to the fact this it didnt specifically advise on market 
timing and that he might want to reinvest before the market had fully recovered but it would 
keep him updated. Mr B then clarified that he wanted to know when the market starts to 
fully rebound [Mr Bs emphasis]. Tilney explained this was hard to gauge because of 
potential false restarts and Mr B confirmed he would await its advice.
In response on 2 April Tilney said;
With regard to when we believe markets begin to fully rebound we will be looking 
for signs of this.
That said as we have always stated the Tilney house view is dont try and market 
time. As we discussed the very nature of the setback made it virtually impossible to 
anticipate and there is a large body of evidence to support our approach of having 
seen the markets fall, staying invested to fully capture the eventual recovery.
That said risk/reward is moving in the right direction and last weeks rally suggests 
investors believe Armageddon will be avoided; we would agree with this. However, 
there is plenty of bad news to come and market conditions remain difficult.
Sentiment (and market levels) are therefore likely to remain volatile and markets will 
only begin to fully rebound on evidence that the stimulus is indeed working and signs 
that covid-19 virus momentum is peaking, in the US and Europe. This will take time 
to emerge. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt hear anything more from Tilney and on 5 June instructed that 75% of 
their fund be invested into equity and 25% in the safer areas as before when we had a 50/50 
split. We prefer to have an extra 25% risk than previously.
I think the correspondence that took place between Mr and Mrs B and in particular the above 
email explained that it was difficult to assess when the markets were beginning to fully 
rebound and there would inevitably false starts. Spotting the right time would be very difficult 
and that can only be correctly assessed with the benefit of hindsight. And I note one of the 
earlier emails does refer to it being a crystal ball scenario. Tilney suggested Mr and Mrs B 
may not want to wait until the markets had fully recovered, as then you would be selling at a 
low point and buying at a high point. 
So again, I dont agree that Tilney has done anything wrong. It was Mr and Mrs Bs decision 
to reinvest and at what time. By Tilney not making any contact with them about investing 
assumes that it hadnt concluded that the markets had begun to fully rebound. The decision 
to invest was theirs and Ive seen nothing to suggest that any earlier contact from Tilney 
would have altered their decision to invest at the time that they did.
I am sorry for the financial position that Mr and Mrs B are in. But I dont find that Tilney is 
responsible for that. I dont think the delay in the 10% fall notification made any difference to 
the timing of the sales, Tilney acted quickly and responsibly after that instruction was given, 
and it was Mr and Mrs Bs decision when to reinvest. Taking all of the above into account, I dont agree that Tilney has acted incorrectly or hasnt 
been fair and reasonable in its dealings with Mr and Mrs B. It follows that I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
No doubt Mr and Mrs B will be disappointment with the outcome, but I hope I have been able 
to explain how and why I have reached that decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman