DRN-3986141
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined his claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 for a refund of his payment for a repair of his sons car.
Background
In June 2022 Mr C paid a garage to repair his sons car. The issue was that the timing chain 
was no longer fitting properly. The repair necessitated removing the engine from the car to 
reach the timing chain, and then putting the engine back in again. Mr C paid about £2,055 on 
his Lloyds credit card.
When the car was returned, Mr Cs son drove it for about 20 minutes, covering around ten 
miles, when it broke down. After a two hour wait, a roadside recovery service attended and 
identified the cause as the water pipe not being correctly attached, resulting in the engine 
over-heating. The pipe was re-attached, the water was topped up, and Mr Cs son was 
advised to add coolant as soon as possible.
Mr C inferred that the reason the pipe was not attached was because the garage had 
negligently failed to attach it properly, or at all, when replacing the engine. He complained to 
the garage, which apologised and offered to pay for the cost of the coolant, which was £3. 
Mr C rejected that offer (understandably, I think), and raised a section 75 claim with Lloyds. 
He asked for a refund of the entire amount he had paid to repair the timing chain, on the 
ground that the repair had not been carried out properly.
(Subsequently, the car broke down a second time due to the clutch failing, but Mr C has not 
complained about that. While he feels that it must also be the result of the garages 
negligence, he accepts he cannot prove that.)
Lloyds investigated what had happened, but declined Mr Cs claim. In its final response 
letter, it told him that as the garage had fixed the timing chain, there had been no breach of 
contract. (Earlier, in a phone call, Lloyds had offered to reimburse Mr C for the cost of the 
roadside repair, but he said he had incurred no cost because he has an annual 
subscription.)
Mr C brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. He also said 
that as the timing chain had been fixed, the garage had fulfilled its contract.
Mr C disagreed with that opinion. He argued that the garage had been obliged not only to fix 
the timing chain, but also to carry out all necessary and incidental work to restore the car to 
good order after completing that repair. That meant replacing the engine in the car and 
reconnecting everything to it, including the water pipe. Since that had not been done 
properly, there had been a breach of contract. He asked for an ombudsman to review this 
case.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I completely agree with Mr Cs logic. It simply must have been a term of Mr Cs contract with 
the garage, if not express then certainly implied, that the garage would not only repair the 
timing chain but would also put the engine back in the car and do whatever was necessary 
to achieve that. That undoubtedly meant that the garage was supposed to reattach the water 
pipe, not just as a matter of good practice but as a contractual obligation. There are ample 
grounds for inferring that it failed to do that, so I am satisfied that there was a breach of 
contract.
However, I do not agree that it follows that Mr C is entitled to a refund of the entire price he 
paid for the repair. It still remains the case that the timing chain has been fixed. I think that 
getting that done for free would be a disproportionate remedy for what went wrong.
I think that Lloyds understood that too, and just failed to explain it properly in its final 
response letter. I have seen (in confidence) an internal document in which its claim handlers 
discussed Mr Cs claim, and reached the conclusion that the garage was liable for the 
breakdown, but that as the timing chain had been fixed there was no need to refund the 
entire price Mr C had paid to the garage. Instead, it considered the smaller remedy of 
compensating Mr C for the cost of the roadside repair, until it learned that he had incurred no 
additional cost for that. Unfortunately, in the final response letter this was reduced to a 
sentence to the effect that the garage had not breached its contract, which was not an 
accurate summary of the banks reason for declining the claim (and nor was it an accurate 
statement of the facts).
If Lloyds had explained that properly in its letter to Mr C, then he might have accepted that 
answer and not been put to the trouble of bringing this complaint to our service. I consider 
that to be an error by Lloyds, in that its response to his claim was poorly communicated. 
I think that £100 is fair compensation for that.
I have considered whether I can also require Lloyds to compensate Mr C or his son for the 
inconvenience caused to either of them for the breakdown. However, I do not think that 
I can. I have no doubt at all that Mr Cs son was inconvenienced, because he had to wait by 
the side of the road for two hours, and there was also the distress caused by the breakdown 
happening in the first place, especially so soon after leaving the garage. But Mr Cs son was 
not a party to the contract, and so I do not think the garage was liable for that (at least not for 
a breach of contract; I have not considered the tort of negligence because section 75 does 
not cover that). I am sure that Mr C himself must have been annoyed to learn about what 
happened to his son, but I am not persuaded that this would rise to the level where a court 
would consider it to be an actionable loss.
I have considered Mr Cs argument that it could have been much worse  that the car might 
have had an accident, causing injury or death to his son. However, I wont award 
compensation for hypothetical damages which did not in fact occur. And I dont think that 
failing to re-attach a water pipe is so deplorable that a court would award exemplary or 
aggravated damages for it.
If in his response to this provisional decision Mr C does manage to change my mind about 
compensation for the garages breach of contract, I will need to avoid the risk of double 
recovery  that is, Mr C being compensated twice for the same thing. I have noted that in 
August he sent an email in which he said he had issued proceedings against the garage in 
court. So I wont award compensation in respect of anything the garage did, unless I see written confirmation that the court proceedings have been discontinued. But I am not 
advising him to end the court case, because Mr C may feel that he has better prospects in 
court. (He should seek independent legal advice about that, if he has not done so already.)
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties I intend to order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr C 
£100.
Responses to my provisional findings
Following my provisional decision, Mr C told me that he had already discontinued his court 
case against the garage (not for lack of merit but because the costs would be 
disproportionate to the damages). However, he made no further submissions.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay Mr C £100.
There is therefore no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm 
them here. In summary, Mr Cs son was not a party to the contract and so Lloyds is not liable 
for what happened to him, and Mr C himself was not personally inconvenienced by the 
breakdown (see paragraph six of the previous section).
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman