DRN-3019596
The complaint
Miss P complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Around March 2021, Miss P contacted her insurer, Tesco, to make a claim under her home 
insurance policy. She said storm conditions in December 2020 caused damage to her roof 
resulting in water leaking into her home.
Tesco sent its surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor reported that storm conditions 
were operating at the time but that the storm wasnt the cause of the damage. The surveyor 
concluded that the storm simply highlighted a pre-existing problem  so Tesco declined the 
claim.
Miss P complained and Tesco stood by its decision. Miss P was unhappy that the surveyor 
told her that internal damage to her home was covered but Tesco later said this wasnt the 
case. The insurer apologised for the misinformation Miss P was given and said it had asked 
the surveyor to correct the advice it had provided. Remaining unhappy, Miss P asked this 
service to get involved.
Our investigator concluded that Tesco declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy 
terms. Miss P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the opinion that Tesco has declined the claim fairly  Ill explain why.
Tesco agrees there were storm conditions around the time. Given this isnt disputed by any 
of the parties, I dont think I need to comment on this point further. The key issue here is 
whether the storm is what caused the damage to Miss Ps roof.
The only reliable assessment of the damage I have available is the report completed by 
Tescos surveyor. The surveyor concludes there were storm conditions at the time, but that 
the storm wasnt the cause of the damage. The surveyor says the storm merely highlighted 
an existing problem with the roof. Its reasonable in my view that Tesco relies on this report, 
given that its been completed by someone thats considered to be knowledgeable in this 
field. So I think Tesco acted fairly when it decided to decline the claim based on the findings 
of the survey.
Ive also reviewed the images taken by the surveyor at the time. And I cant see anything 
that makes me think that theres obvious signs of storm damage. The report also says that 
the surveyor couldnt locate the actual location where the water was entering Miss Ps home. 
So I think, on balance, its unlikely that the storm was what caused water to leak through 
Miss Ps roof. 
Miss P says there isnt enough proof that the storm didnt cause damage to her roof. She 
says the roof was only four years old and only started leaking after the storm. I dont doubt 
Miss Ps comments. But the surveyors report points out that the storm only brought to light 
an existing problem with the roof, rather than cause the actual damage. So its reasonable 
that the leak became apparent after the storm conditions. And as I said, the survey was 
carried out by an expert in the field so its fair for Tesco to rely on it.
I appreciate the frustration Miss P has experienced because she was incorrectly told that 
internal damage was covered. Looking at the insurers notes, it seems Tesco took steps to 
put this right quickly and apologised to Miss P for the error. And upon reviewing the policy 
terms, it appears Miss P wouldnt have been covered in these circumstances. So I think its 
fair that Tesco didnt cover this part of her claim.
So I wont be asking Tesco to review its decision to decline Miss Ps claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman