DRN-2930939
The complaint
Mr R complains about Carnegie Consumer Finance Limiteds (Carnegies) decision to 
reject a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75), that a training course was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr R made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr R says the course that he financed through the loan was misrepresented to him because 
he was told the training centre was close to his home and it wasnt and also because he 
says he was told the qualification would allow him to work anywhere in the world, but he 
subsequently discovered that it wouldnt.
If I thought Mr R had been told something that was untrue and that had led him to enter an 
agreement with Carnegie that he wouldnt have otherwise entered into, then Id think the 
agreement had been misrepresented and Id ask Carnegie to take some action.
But here I am not persuaded there is enough evidence of misrepresentation.
When Mr R signed up for the course he received a welcome pack that set out the training 
locations. It was clear from that pack that the nearest location was about an hour and forty 
minutes away and at that point I think its fair to suggest Mr R should have complained to the 
business. But he didnt complain for eight months and whilst I understand Mr R says there 
were mitigating circumstances I dont think there was anything that would have prevented 
him raising concerns with the business earlier. So, I dont think theres evidence this 
agreement was misrepresented on that basis.
Similarly, the Welcome pack explains that the course leads to an NVQ level 2 Diploma and I 
think Mr R could have been expected at that point to understand, or research, any 
restrictions the qualification may have presented to him working in other countries. Ive not 
seen evidence to corroborate that Mr R was told the course would allow him to work 
anywhere either and I think he would have been likely to complain earlier had he been given 
inaccurate information of this sort. Overall, Im afraid I dont have sufficient evidence to 
suggest the course was misrepresented to him on this basis either.
Im not therefore asking Carnegie to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman