DRN-3061665
The complaint
Mr G complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited undervalued his motorbike 
following a claim on his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
In 2020, Mr G was involved in an accident. He made a claim on his motor insurance policy 
and following an inspection of the damage, Markerstudy deemed his motorbike to be a total 
loss. It made an offer of £5,500 (minus the policy excess of £500) to settle the claim. Or 
£2,745 if Mr G wanted to keep the motorbike. Markerstudy said this offer was in line with its 
engineers assessment, trade guides and sale adverts.
Mr G felt the motorbike had been undervalued. He said it was an extremely rare bike and 
that inferior models were selling for more than Markerstudys offer. He asked that the offer 
be increased to £7,500 and that he be allowed to keep the motorbike. He was also unhappy 
with the handling of his claim.
Markerstudy maintained its position on the valuation. It said it hadnt seen any trade guides 
or adverts which supported a higher value. It said the adverts it had seen for the same bike 
put the advertised prices between £4,700 to £5,100 and these bikes had a lower mileage 
than Mr Gs. But it did agree there had been failings in its customer service, which it offered 
£300 compensation for.
Mr G didnt accept this, so he brought his complaint to our service. He felt it was unfair that 
hed been charged a policy premium based on his estimated value of £11,500 if he was 
never going to receive this following a claim. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He completed his own enquiries with the motor 
trade guides and was satisfied Markerstudy had fairly valued the motorbike. So he didnt 
think it needed to increase its offer. But he did think it was unfair that Mr G had been 
charged a higher premium based on an estimated valuation he was never going to receive. 
So he asked Markerstudy to refund the difference in price plus 8% simple interest, based on 
what the premiums wouldve been if Mr G had estimated the value at £5,500.
In regard to the customer service issues, our investigator thought the compensation offer of 
£300 fairly reflected what went wrong. 
Markerstudy said the policy premium was calculated based on Mr Gs estimated value and it 
couldnt be held responsible if this turned out to be incorrect. But in order to resolve the 
complaint, it offered to refund the difference in premium as a gesture of goodwill. It said this 
amounted to £30 inclusive of interest.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view of the complaint. He said hed be willing to accept 
£6,500 settlement plus retaining the bike, but when this wasnt agreed he asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its useful for me to point out that this services role isnt to work out the exact value of an 
individual vehicle. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy 
correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy say:
We will cover you against loss or damage to the motorcycle (less any excess that 
applies) caused accidentally or as a result of malicious damage or vandalism. 
The most we will pay will be either:-
the market value of the motorcycle immediately before the loss, or
the cost of repairing the motorcycle,
whichever is the lower amount.
The policy defines market value as
The replacement cost of the motorcycle (including permanently fitted accessories) at 
the time of loss or damage compared with one of the same make, model and 
conditionThe market value will be assessed by an automotive engineer in 
conjunction with the published trade guides at the time of loss.
To determine the pre-accident market value, its standard practice for the industry to use 
valuation guides  and we think this is fair. In Mr Gs case, Markerstudy said it could only 
obtain one trade guide able to offer a valuation, due to the rarity of the motorbike. This 
valued the bike at £2,191. 
As part of our investigation, we also looked at the trade guides. Two of the main guides we 
use determined that the value of a bike the same make, model, year of manufacture, and 
approximate mileage as Mr Gs at the time of loss would be around £2,175 and £2,325.
As such, Im satisfied Markerstudy valued the motorbike fairly when it made its offer of 
£2,745 on the basis that Mr G could keep the bike.
We dont usually find adverts for similar vehicles very persuasive because they are a 
reflection of what the seller believes the vehicle is worth, rather than what it actually sold for. 
Its common for there to be further negotiation and the advertised price isnt necessarily the 
price that might finally be agreed upon. But we do consider them, as they could indicate if 
there is a problem with the guide values. They can also be useful when a vehicle isnt 
covered by the trade guides or is a limited edition.
In Mr Gs case, Markerstudy used sale adverts to account for the limited valuations available 
through the trade guides. It found motorbikes of the same make and model for sale between 
£4,700 and £5,100, but these had lower mileage. Ive also looked at for sale adverts, and 
Ive been able to find a bike for sale at just over £6,000. But this bike has significantly less 
mileage  almost one quarter of Mr Gs.
 
Based on this, Im satisfied Markerstudys offer of £5,500 (minus the policy excess) is fair on 
the basis that it retains the savage. 
I appreciate Mr G wants a higher settlement as well as being able to retain the motorbike. 
But I cant agree thats fair. Even if he was able to sell the bike for £7,500, he wouldnt be 
able to keep it as well  it would go to the buyer. So if he wants to accept the higher valuation of £5,500  which Ive determined is a fair reflection of the market value  then 
hed need to give the bike to Markerstudy.
Turning to the issue of policy premiums, Markerstudy has agreed to refund the difference 
between what Mr G wouldve paid had he valued his bike more accurately at inception and 
what he actually paid  plus 8% per year simple interest. Whilst it doesnt accept that it did 
anything wrong, its agreed to do this as a gesture of goodwill. As Markerstudy has agreed, I 
dont need to make a finding on whether its fair to do so. 
Markerstudy has calculated what the premium wouldve been. As this is a multi-bike policy, 
its only applied the reduction to the premium for this motorbike. Its said:
If wed have been made aware the value of the bike was £5500 and not £11500 at 
the time of quotation then we would have offered a rate of £455 instead of £480 for 
the drop in value on bike1Worth noting this is a deduction just on bike1 premium 
and not the total premium.
This is a difference of £25. Markerstudy has offered to pay £30 inclusive of interest  which 
is in line with the 8% per year simple interest recommended by our investigator. 
And finally, Markerstudy has offered £300 compensation for the failings in its customer 
service. It acknowledges that there were some delays in progressing the claim, an email 
from Mr G wasnt responded to and there was some miscommunication with the approved 
repairers. 
Its clear Mr G was put to some distress and inconvenience, in particular over the collection 
of his vehicle. And he should be compensated for what went wrong. Based on the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied this offer fairly reflects the impact these errors had on 
Mr G and it is in line with what I wouldve awarded, had an offer not been made. Mr G hasnt 
provided any information to imply that he disagrees with this offer or that it doesnt fairly 
reflect the impact he experienced. So Ive no reason to direct that the amount of 
compensation be increased.
My final decision
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has offered to pay £300 compensation and a £30 
refund of premiums inclusive of interest to resolve this complaint. I think this is fair, for the 
reasons Ive explained. 
As such, my final decision is that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr G 
£330.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman