DRN-2310937
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs O payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy. The policy started when 
Mr and Mrs O took out a mortgage in 1992. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Looking at the mortgage application form from 1992, I think Bank of Scotland made 
Mr and Mrs O aware that the PPI was optional, but that they still chose to take it.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs O, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Os particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Os situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr O (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, and so would have 
been entitled to put in a claim. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr O received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs O would need to fall back on any savings (of which it seems they had 
few) or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living 
costs. This all would have put Mr and Mrs O in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr O would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs O to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy at 
the point Mr and Mrs O agreed to take the PPI. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and 
clear information about this would have affected whether Mr and Mrs O took the PPI. I say 
this because the potential benefits were likely to have been greater than Mr Os sick pay and 
savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high. So the PPI would still have seemed useful.
Mr and Mrs O say that, when they remortgaged in 2006, Bank of Scotland should have 
advised them not to take PPI. This is because Mr O was preparing to become self-employed 
and they believe Mr O would not then have been covered by the PPI. 
I havent seen evidence that there was actually a new PPI policy sold in 2006. It would 
appear the policy just continued, and would have been useable against the new mortgage. 
This would mean Bank of Scotland didnt have a duty to give advice to Mr and Mrs O about 
the PPI. 
But even if it had recommended PPI, I dont think that Mr Os impending self-employment 
would have made a recommendation unsuitable. Ive looked at the terms of the policy that 
were likely to have applied in 2006. Unlike some PPI policies, Bank of Scotlands policy at 
that time didnt make it particularly difficult for a self-employed person to claim PPI 
unemployment benefits. And even though Mr and Mrs O say they had savings in 2006, the 
PPI could still have delayed the time when theyd need to use the savings to cover their 
mortgage and day-to-day living costs. So the PPI would still potentially have been useful. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman