DRN-2847424
The complaint
Mr M complains that he received unsuitable advice about his pension from Tidal Wealth 
Management (TWM), an appointed representative of Cowley & Miller Independent Financial 
Services Limited (Cowley & Miller). Mr M has also complained about the lack of ongoing 
advice received from TWM.
What happened
Mr M met with Harry Young of TWM and was advised to move from a Group Personal 
Pension (GPP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with the same provider.
On 18 November 2014 Mr M signed an ongoing service agreement with Cowley & Miller, 
choosing a silver service for 0.75% of the value of the investments or a fixed fee of
£750.
On 19 January 2015 an illustration was produced which detailed a tax-free cash lump sum of 
£69,569 with all of the fund moving into drawdown.
The illustration detailed initial commission of £2,000 to be paid to Cowley & Miller. Mr M 
signed the GPP to SIPP switch forms on 23 January 2015 and Cowley & Miller sent the 
correspondence to Standard Life on 28 January 2015.
On 6 February 2015, the provider issued a letter to Cowley & Miller which confirmed the 
change from a GPP to a SIPP.
On 17 February 2015 Horizon Stockbroking e-mailed Mr M the bank details of IG Markets 
(a trading platform) and confirmed a call will be made to discuss this in more detail.
Mr Ms tax-free cash was invested into high risk Contracts For Difference (CFD) this was 
done through Horizon but Harry Young (trading as TWM) signed the forms as a witness. 
Mr M says that TWM advised him on this investment and told him that it was safe and not 
subject to any risk. 
Approximately six months later in August 2015, the entire investment was lost. And I 
understand Horizon went into default.
In May 2016, TWM had ceased to be an appointed representative of Cowley & Miller. And 
on 14 June 2018 Mr M found out through the SIPP provider that he no longer had an 
appointed financial adviser.
Mr M complained to us that the advice to invest in the CFD was unsuitable for him and that 
the advice was given by TWM whilst representing Cowley & Miller. And he also said he 
hadnt been provided with the ongoing service that hed paid for.
Cowley & Miller didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it had no paper or money trail 
for Mr Ms investment in the CFD. It said TWM became an appointed rep of another firm 
(which was no longer trading) and they believed it was the new firm who should be held 
accountable.
The investigator pointed out the advice to invest in the CFD was before TWM had joined the 
other firm and whilst they were still with Cowley & Miller. He provided Cowley & Miller with 
the documentation regarding the CFD investment.
Cowley & Miller responded to say this only showed that Harry Young was a witness to the 
investment but provided no evidence that he gave advice.
The investigator didnt think it was plausible that Mr M made this investment decision 
without advice.  He said without TWMs advice, Mr M wouldnt have invested in an area 
that was clearly unsuitable for him. He said he accepted that Cowley & Miller may not have 
been aware of the advice, but it was responsible for its representatives actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I continue I should clarify that this decision is only considering the investment of the 
tax-free cash and the ongoing advice service. Mr Ms said he isnt complaining about the 
transfer to the SIPP.
It seems its accepted by all parties, that investing in CFDs through the Discretionary Fund 
Manager, Horizon Stockbroking, was unsuitable for Mr M. And out of step with the balanced 
attitude to risk that was recorded by TWM. But for the avoidance of doubt, I think the 
investment of his tax-free cash in a high-risk CFD, an unregulated investment not suitable for 
your regular investor, and which put his entire capital at risk, was unsuitable for Mr Ms 
circumstances.
Cowley & Millers defence is that it isnt responsible for the advice. I dont doubt what it has 
told us about the lack of information it had about Mr Ms investment in the CFD. But the 
evidence shows that TWM was at the time of the investment an appointed representative of 
Cowley & Miller. The evidence also shows that TWM advised Mr M acting in his capacity as 
an appointed representative of Cowley & Miller to transfer his pension to a SIPP in February 
2015. And that the investment in the CFD using tax-free cash released from the SIPP, 
occurred less than two weeks later, and Harry Young of TWM was involved. His signature 
was on the Power of Attorney form (acting as a witness) allowing Horizon to act on Mr Ms 
behalf.
More compelling still, is the evidence shows the arrangements to invest in the CFD were 
made before the pension transfer actually took place and the tax-free cash became available 
to invest. When TWM submitted the transfer paperwork to the provider and the instruction to 
commence drawdown, he said Mr M wished to take the maximum tax-free cash. At the same 
time he was involved with the arrangements to set Mr M up with Horizon Stockbroking to use 
the tax-free cash amount to invest in CFD.
So its clear to me the advice to invest in the CFD was part of the overall pension advice 
given to Mr M. And in any event the regulator had already made clear prior to this transfer in 
2013, that advisers needed to take account a customers overall investment strategy when 
advising on pension transfers and switches.
Furthermore, the regulator in 2014 specifically referred to cases where advisers were under 
the false impression they could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract: Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable. The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a 
product (such as a SIPP) which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other 
products, provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall 
transaction, that is, the vehicle or wrapper and the expected underlying investments 
(whether or not such investments are regulated products). Despite the initial alert, some 
firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly restrict their advice to the merits of 
the SIPP wrapper. 
Whilst Mr Ms complaint isnt about the underlying investments within the SIPP, the 
investment of the tax-free cash was wrapped up in the pension advice. Both events 
happened concurrently, and the evidence points to TWM being the driving force behind the 
tax-free cash withdrawal and the investment within the CFD. So I think the above makes 
clear that TWM shouldve considered the suitability of the investment within the CFD as part 
of their advice even in the event they didnt give advice about the CFD. But I dont agree that 
they were separate events, there is a clear link of causation.
Cowley & Miller has also questioned why it is held responsible when Horizon Stockbroking 
made the investments for Mr M. However, I can only look at the complaint that has been 
brought to us which is against Cowley & Miller. Whether other parties - for example a DFM - 
might also be responsible for the same losses or some of the losses is a distinct matter, 
which I am not able to determine here. And without TWMs involvement I dont think Mr M 
would have proceeded with this strategy. Had TWM given Mr M suitable advice and properly 
informed him of the risks involved in the investment, as was the advisers responsibility, I 
dont think Mr M wouldve gone ahead with this investment.
Mr M has said he had no need at the time to take tax-free cash, so suitable advice ought to 
have been to retain it within the SIPP. If that advice had been given, Mr M wouldnt have 
suffered the losses that he has.
Whilst I appreciate Cowley & Miller as principle says it has been left in the dark over this 
arrangement  as it wasnt informed by TWM  it is responsible for TWMs actions whilst it 
was an appointed representative of it. And Im satisfied, given TWM arranged the pension 
transfer which Cowley & Miller accepts it was responsible for, that Harry Young/TWM was 
acting in its capacity as an appointed representative of Cowley & Miller when the advice was 
given and arrangements made to invest in the CFD around the same time period.
Therefore, I think it is fair and reasonable to hold Cowley & Miller responsible for the loss of 
Mr Ms tax-free cash from his SIPP.
Mr M has also complained that he paid for an ongoing service agreement but yet didnt 
receive anything for this. And it wasnt until years later that he found out he no longer had an 
adviser. He says he is unhappy that he was left in limbo and without an adviser. However, 
TWM left Cowley & Miller some months after the initial advice. Cowley & Miller said it 
stopped receiving commission and it understood Harry Young took his clients with him to the 
new principal firm. Mr M says he wasnt told about this but I dont think I can fairly hold 
Cowley & Miller responsible beyond the time that it was receiving commission from the 
provider. Mr M may wish to complain about the new principle firm regarding the later fees 
charged (although I understand they are now in default). The SIPP provider will be able to 
give him information about the fees paid.Cowley & Miller will have received some ongoing commission as it was payable monthly. It 
hasnt presented any evidence it did anything to justify that ongoing commission. Mr M said 
he didnt receive any reviews or ongoing advice. And considering the experience he has 
had, I think it is fair that Cowley & Miller should refund any fees it was paid for ongoing 
advice/renewal commission. 
Finally Mr M has told us he suffered mental anxiety, worries and money problems due to the 
loss of his tax-free cash. This wasnt an unsubstantial loss and represented all of Mr Ms tax-
free cash. I think it wouldve had a big effect on him and therefore I think Cowley & Miller 
should pay Mr M £400 in respect of the distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused 
him.
So it follows that I uphold this complaint and find Cowley & Miller responsible for Mr Ms 
losses.
Putting things right
To put Mr M as closely as possible back in the position he wouldve been but for the 
unsuitable advice. Cowley & Miller should compare the performance of Mr M's CFD 
investment with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Cowley & Miller should pay into Mr M's pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Cowley & Miller are unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Cowley & Miller should provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Cowley & Miller consider that it is 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr 
M how much has been taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interestMr Ms 
tax-free 
cash 
invested in 
CFD.Illiquid/
lapsedStandard Life 
My Folio 
Managed iiidate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement8% simple per 
year from date of 
final decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Cowley & Miller total all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The Standard Life My Folio Managed iii fund was where the 75% remainder of Mr Ms 
pension was invested. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return.
It is a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr M's circumstances and balanced risk 
attitude.
Cowley & Miller should also refund any fees it received as ongoing/renewal commission 
to Mr M. And pay Mr M £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Cowley & Miller Independent Financial Services Limited 
and direct it to put things right as explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman