DRN-3323748
The complaint
Ms B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money she lost when she fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
Ms B was looking online for an investment opportunity after receiving money from a house 
sale and came across BinaryOnline. She was contacted by a Customer Success Manager 
and they drew up an investment plan to build profits on a quarterly review which she could 
withdraw as and when needed. She started with an initial investment of £500, which was one 
of three deposits to her binary options trading account that day. She saw her investment 
grow and made further deposits. In all, she invested £20,001 between 28 November 2017 
and 4 January 2018.  Between 9 March and 14 June 2018, Ms B received credits totalling 
£10,290.51 from BinaryOnline. 
At the first quarterly review, Ms B says she attempted to make a withdrawal, but this was 
refused. And BinaryOlines continual refusal aroused her suspicions. She contacted HSBC in 
May 2018 for help and was told what shed need to provide to raise a chargeback claim. She 
requested a cancellation of BinaryOnlines services on 28 June 2018 and provided 
information to HSBC to raise a chargeback. Included in this was warnings about 
BinaryOnline and other information suggesting it was operating a scam.  
In September 2018, HSBC raised a chargeback for misrepresentation. But it was defended 
through the merchants bank. And although HSBC contacted it again, it was further defended 
 with the merchant showing the service had been provided. HSBC didnt take the matter 
further as it said there were no further chargeback rights. But it did pay £100 compensation 
to Ms B because of avoidable delays in that process. 
Ultimately, our investigator concluded that all the payments to BinaryOnline ought to have 
been blocked, as by the time they were made there was a warning about the trader on the 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) alert portal, that it had been 
trading in a jurisdiction without being registered to do so. She concluded HSBC ought to 
have intervened and had it done so, she was satisfied the scam would have unravelled. She 
didnt find Ms B should bear any responsibility for the position she found herself in. She 
asked HSBC to reimburse the transactions, less any credits, and add 8% simple interest. 
HSBC disagreed. In summary, it said:
That Ms B received back more than 50% of her deposit has been ignored by the 
investigator. This significantly detracts from a suggestion the merchant was 
fraudulent at the material time. 
The investigator has mis-quoted the FCA paper, and their findings in respect of its 
action are unrealistic and unfair. The investigator seeks to apply retrospective 
regulation by the back door. If it was intended for it to be obliged to take steps to 
block payments one month after a published warning, the regulator would make this 
clear. 
It doesnt believe the investigator has properly considered contributory negligence. 
It considers 8% interest to be punitive as there is no evidence that she would have 
obtained interest at such a level or that she had to borrow as a result of the loss 
suffered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute authorised payments without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for an authorised payments rests with the payer even where they have been duped 
into making that payment, for example as part of an investment scam. There is no dispute 
that Ms B authorised the payments. 
Banks and other payment services providers have duties to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering. But they dont have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice. And Im mindful the regulator has confirmed that 
providing a fraud warning to a customer, doesnt amount to investment advice. The first 
question I need to consider is whether this trader was actually a fraudster.
The investigator has already set out the reasons for finding that BinaryOption wasnt a 
legitimate trader. I agree with those reasons, in summary they were:
BinaryOnline wasnt regulated by the UKs Gambling Commission when it ought to 
have been.
A warning about BinaryOnline was published by IOSCO on 16 December 2016. 
This noted that it has been operating in another jurisdiction without being 
registered to do so. The FCA also later published its own warning in May 2018, 
that BinaryOption was operating in the UK without authorisation.
There are reports in the public domain about BinaryOnline being scammers.
So I need to consider whether:
HSBC ought to have intervened in any of the payments?
Whether intervention would have made a difference?
Whether Ms B was partly to blame or what happened such that it would be 
fair and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
HSBC is aware of our general approach to its safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers. As well as decisions being published on our website setting out these 
principles and which quote the relevant rules and regulations, HSBC itself has also had a 
number of decisions setting out our position.
We are required, and as provided for in the DISP Rules, to take into account rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to be good industry practice, as 
well as the law, when reaching a decision. And were tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances of the complaint. In doing so, were satisfied 
our approach isnt inconsistent with the law.
I understand all of Ms Bs payments that are in dispute went directly to BinaryOnline. The 
first payment was sent in November 2017. By that time, there had been a warning on the 
IOSCO investor alerts portal, that BinaryOnline had been operating in a jurisdiction without 
being registered, for 11 months. I accept, as mentioned by the investigator, that it doesnt necessarily follow that these were fraudsters. But nevertheless, Im satisfied its not 
unreasonable to expect an international bank to update watchlist to includes businesses  
payees  that have carried out regulated activities without being licensed. Afterall, a 
legitimate business carrying out regulated activities would usually submit itself to regulation. 
The warning posted by the relevant jurisdiction urged caution. 
HSBC has said that blocking payments is ineffective as merchants circumvent this by 
changing the merchant/acquirer code. But HSBC hasnt provided any evidence that is what 
happened here - that it had a watchlist that BinaryOnline had circumvented in the way 
described. And the approach for the watchlist is based on the name of the merchant rather 
than any merchant code. 
As the payments from November 2017 were 11 months after the warning was published, Im 
satisfied HSBC had sufficient opportunity to update its watchlist, and so I think it should have 
automatically blocked the first payment to BinaryOnline. Had it done so, and asked 
appropriate probing questions, I think the scam would have come to light. Had HSBC 
brought to light that BinaryOnline had been operating without being registered and 
suggested that Ms B carry out more research, Im satisfied she would have paused and 
taken that action. And she could have been advised to check if it was regulated with the 
Gambling Commission, as it ought to have been. Ive no reason to doubt she would have 
followed any due diligence recommendations given by her trusted bank.  Im satisfied that 
finding out BinaryOnline had been operating without a license in another jurisdiction, and 
without being regulated by the Gambling Commission in the UK, is enough to have stopped 
Ms B in her tracks, therefore preventing any of those losses.
HSBC has argued this approach amounts to retrospective regulation. I disagree. The paper 
referred to by the investigator, published in 2012, set out that the then regulator said it was 
good industry practice for businesses to have updated watch lists of potential perpetrators 
and types of scam. So having a watch list of this type has been considered good industry 
practice for many years now  and thats something Im required to take account of in 
reaching my decision. Furthermore, the IOSCO portal was suggested as a source of 
information in relation to putting together a watch list, so it was clearly the intention that 
international information was also supposed to contribute to that. Im satisfied that updating a 
watch list within one month of a published warning is reasonable  in the event, here the 
payments were made 11 months later, plenty of time for any watch list to be updated.
HSBC has said the same consultation paper said that there should be strong grounds for 
suspicions for payments to be delayed. In my view, given the purpose of the portal, the 
purpose of a watchlist, and that this was a suggested source of information, that the very 
appearance of a trader or business on this list, ought to be grounds for such suspicion. After 
all, jurisdictions post voluntarily in a section of the website designed for investor protection. I 
dont find the argument the threshold hasnt been met by an appearance on a published 
warning (IOSCO or FCA) persuasive.  
HSBC has also referred to Ms B receiving significant credits back from the merchant which 
would have detracted from a suggestion that the merchant was fraudulent at the material 
time. But I dont find this argument persuasive either. The first credit wasnt paid until March 
2018, so it wouldnt have factored into any discussions about carrying out due diligence on 
the merchant, nor persuaded Ms B at the point I think HSBC ought to have intervened, that 
she was dealing with a legitimate trader. And as HSBC is well aware, scammers use 
allowing withdrawals as a way to further dupe investors into parting with ever larger sums. It 
follows that I dont find the credits to be persuasive evidence the trader was legitimate.  
I have thought carefully about whether Ms B is partly to blame for what happened. And 
having done so, Im not persuaded she is. I accept it doesnt appear that Ms B did much research before she decided to invest. A bank might be knowledgeable about checking 
for regulation etc, but I dont believe the same could be said for a layperson, particularly 
when that regulator is the Gambling Commission. And I havent seen anything else that 
would lead me to conclude that Ms B was aware, or ought to have been aware, that she 
might have been at risk of being scammed. Overall, Im not persuaded Ms B should 
share the blame for what happened and so I wont be reducing any compensation 
accordingly.
HSBC has argued that there isnt any evidence that Ms B would have been able to earn 8% 
interest on the sum lost, or that she had to borrow because of the loss. It says the award for 
8% interest is punitive. I do understand the point the bank is making. But I dont agree its 
punitive. The 8% interest isnt there to replace interest Ms B might have earnt had the money 
stayed in her account, but for the loss of use of her money. It has been our approach for 
many years to add 8% simple interest on loss in these types of situation and I see no reason 
to depart from that here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to:
Pay Ms B £9,710.49 representing the loss she suffered; and
Add 8% simple interest per year to that sum from the date of the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman