DRN-2964750
The complaint
Ms E complains about NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon MasterCard and their decision to 
approve several credit card applications. She also complains about the credit limit increases 
applied on these accounts.  
What happened
Ms E was provided with five different credit accounts by NewDay between 2014  2019. I will 
refer to these as accounts as Account M, Account Z, Account A, Account F and Account D.
During the time these accounts were provided to Ms E, she struggled financially due to a 
change in her employment circumstances and the birth of her child. And Ms E thought 
NewDays approval of her applications, and subsequent limit increases, had caused some of 
that difficulty. So, in July 2020, she raised a complaint.
Ms E complained that NewDay had been irresponsible when approving her credit 
applications and then increasing her credit limits. She thought it shouldve been reasonably 
clear the credit was unaffordable and that shed struggle to repay it. So, she wanted the 
interest and charges shed paid to be refunded to her.
NewDay responded and didnt agree. They thought their decision to approve the credit 
applications, and increase these accounts limits, were reasonable as theyd completed fair 
and proportionate checks before doing so. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. NewDay didnt refer to all of Ms Es accounts in this response. Ms E remained 
unhappy with this, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially upheld it. He thought NewDay had 
acted fairly when approving Account M and deciding to increase the credit limit from £900 in 
early 2015 to £3,400 in late 2016. But he thought NewDay had acted unfairly when 
increasing Ms Es limit on Account Z from £500 in February 2018 to £1,400 in July 2018 and 
then £1,850 in November 2018. He thought the increased limit was unaffordable to Ms E, as 
shed be unable to repay this amount back in a sustainable way due to her decrease income. 
So, he thought any interest and charges applied to the account after the first increase in limit 
should be refunded, plus 8% simple interest.
NewDay didnt agree. They thought theyd completed reasonable checks before increasing 
Ms Es credit limit, based on a credit score they calculated using Ms Es credit file 
information and maintenance of her account. So, they didnt think they should do anything 
more. They also provided further information regarding Accounts A, F and D as Ms E wanted 
all accounts by NewDay to be considered. Ive taken NewDay providing this information as 
consent to consider all five accounts as part of this one complaint.
As NewDay provided further information, our investigator looked into Ms Es complaint again 
to consider all of the accounts. And having done so, he upheld the complaint and changed 
some of his original conclusions.
For Account M, our investigator thought the limit increase applied in April 2016, from £1,800 
to £2,400, was unreasonable. He explained this was because Ms Es unsecured debt had 
more than doubled in size since her initial application just a year earlier. He thought this 
shouldve prompted NewDay to make further checks into Ms Es financial situation and that, 
if they had, it wouldve become clear her circumstances were due to change as she was due 
to go on maternity leave. And this decrease in income wouldve shown the limit increase to 
be unaffordable. 
For Account A, our investigator explained the initial decision to lend and the first limit 
increase fell outside of our jurisdiction to the six-year time limit. He thought the second and 
third limit increases were also affordable. But, he thought the fourth increase, applied in 
November 2016, was unreasonable for the same reasons as account M. 
For Account Z, our investigator changed his view and thought the application shouldnt have 
been approved as, at the time it was made, Ms Es income had reduced to £13,600 and her 
outstanding debt was approximately £11,700. He thought this showed Ms E to be struggling 
financially and unlikely to repay the account in an affordable and sustainable way. 
For Accounts F and D, our investigator thought Ms Es income compared to her outstanding 
debt suggested she was under pressure to maintain her financial position. So, he thought 
NewDay shouldve completed further checks to understand Ms Es situation and she thought 
if they had, they wouldnt have made the decision to lend. And even if they had, our 
investigator thought this was unfair as it was unaffordable as Ms E was unable to repay the 
credit in a sustainable way. 
For each account, our investigator thought NewDay should refund the interest and charges 
applied from the date he thought the lending had been unreasonable. And if this resulted in a 
refund being owed to Ms E, this payment should include 8% simple interest.
NewDay didnt agree. They maintained their view that theyd assessed the affordability of 
each account and subsequent limit increase considering Ms Es maintenance of her 
accounts, credit file information and information declared at the point of application. They 
didnt think they were required to complete further checks, such as requesting bank 
statements, and didnt think this meant theyd acted unfairly by not doing so. They thought 
they were a near-prime lender that looked to provide credit to consumers who might not be 
able to obtain it elsewhere, meaning they took into consideration negative information 
reported to credit files but didnt decline applications purely on that basis. And they thought 
for each account and increase, Ms E shouldve been able to meet the minimum monthly 
repayment if the limit was utilised in full. So, they maintained theyd acted fairly and didnt 
need to do anything more. As NewDay didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ms Es complaint centres around NewDays decision to approve her applications and the 
limit increase applied on each account. When NewDay make decisions to lend, or to 
increase credit limit, there are no set amount of checks theyre obliged to make. But I need 
to be satisfied these checks were proportionate to the limit Ms E was being provided and reasonably suggested Ms E would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. And if I 
think the checks were proportionate, Id then need to be satisfied NewDay assessed the 
information the checks provided fairly, so the decision to lend was reasonable. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case. For ease of reading, Ive discussed each account 
separately.
Before I explain how Ive reached my decision, I want to explain what I consider to be 
affordable. Im aware NewDay has commented on Ms Es ability to meet the minimum 
monthly repayments if her credit limits were fully utilised and they feel this means they 
provided affordable increases. But being able to meet a minimum monthly payment doesnt 
mean credit is affordable. Instead, I need to be satisfied the credit NewDay provided to Ms E 
was able to be repaid in a sustainable way, within a reasonable amount of time. So, I dont 
think being able to meet minimum monthly payments isnt enough to show credit is 
affordable.
Ive seen the application data for Account M. It shows Ms Es monthly income was just over 
£2,100 and at the time she had £5,000 outstanding, unsecured debt. There were defaults 
present on Ms Es credit file but none had been recorded within the previous twelve months. 
And Ms E appeared to be maintaining her outstanding credit well. So, NewDay approved a 
credit limit of £900. I think the checks NewDay made were proportionate to the size of the 
limit. And I dont think there was any information that suggested Ms E would be unable to 
repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, I think NewDays initial decision to lend was fair. 
Five months later, NewDay increased Ms Es limit to £1,800. Although this is a sizeable 
increase, Ive seen Ms E was managing her account well, paying more than the minimum 
monthly payment. So, I dont think I can say this increase was unfair based on the 
information available to NewDay. But in April 2016, NewDay increased Ms Es limit again to 
£2,400. So, in the space of a year Ms Es limit had almost trebled which I think is a 
significant increase. And crucially, Ive seen Ms Es outstanding debt had almost double to 
£9,500 within the same time.
 I think this shouldve suggested to NewDay that Ms E had been relying on credit during the 
previous year and that this shouldve prompted NewDay to make further enquiries into Ms 
Es circumstances before proposing another increase. And if they had, I think Ms E wouldve 
revealed to NewDay that her circumstances were due to change as she was about to go on 
maternity leave, causing a decrease to her monthly income. If this had been disclosed, I 
think it wouldve become clear to NewDay that Ms E would struggle to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way and so, I wouldnt expect them to offer a limit increase. Because of this, I 
dont think this limit increase, or limit increases applied on this account afterwards, was fair. 
Ill discuss what I think NewDay should do to recognise this later in the decision.
Ive then thought about Account A, where Ive only considered the events that occurred 
within six years of Ms E raising her complaint. NewDay increase Ms Es limit from £750 to 
£1,000 in February 2015. At this time, Ms E was in full time employment and her outstanding 
debt was similar to when she applied for Account M. So, I dont think there was anything to 
suggest to NewDay this limit was unaffordable. And I think this follows for the next limit 
increase, taking Ms Es limit to £1,750 in October 2015. 
But in November 2016, Ms Es limit was increased again to £2,650. This was after NewDay 
had already increased Ms Es limit on Account M, which I think was unfair due to a change in 
her circumstances and a significant increase in her outstanding debt. So, I think it follows 
that NewDays decision to increase Account Ms credit limit was unfair.
For Account Z, Ive seen the application data NewDay considered. This declares Ms Es 
annual income as £13,600 with a monthly income of £1,028. It also states Ms Es household had access to another monthly income of £1,844. Ms Es monthly accommodation costs and 
living expenses totalled £900 which suggested Ms E had a disposable income of £128 left 
each month. It also showed Ms E had outstanding debts of £11,700. So, her minimum 
payments, based on 3% of this amount, would total £351. I think this shouldve showed to 
NewDay that Account Z was unaffordable to Ms E and shouldnt have been provided.
But Im aware NewDay may have calculated this based on Ms E only paying 50% of the 
£900 stated. Even in this situation, Ms E would only be left with £227 disposable income. So, 
I dont think Ms Es circumstances suggested shed be able to more than the minimum 
payments on her existing debts to clear them in a sustainable way. So, in either situation, I 
dont think NewDay were fair to approve Account Z. So, as I dont think NewDay shouldve 
lent to Ms E initially, it follows that I dont think the two following limit increases on the 
account were fair.
Ive then turned to Account F, which was approved in May 2018. Ive seen at the time of the 
application; Ms Es annual income was declared as £14,000. And her outstanding debt 
showed as £10,700. On this application, no other household income was declared nor were 
monthly living expenses or accommodation costs considered. So, at the time NewDay 
approved account F, I cant see that Ms Es situation had materially changed since Account 
Z was approved. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume Ms Es expenses remained the 
same as when she applied for Account Z. So, for the same reasons, I dont think the credit 
NewDay approved was affordable to Ms E, as I dont think she had an ability to repay it in a 
sustainable way. Further to this, I think NewDay shouldve recognised Ms E had applied for 
credit with them three months earlier and noticed a pattern of Ms E requiring additional 
credit. 
And finally, Ive thought about Account D. Im aware Ms D hasnt used the account and so, 
hasnt been impacted financially by being provided the credit. But Ive seen the application 
data which shows Ms Es annual income had remained the same and that her other 
household income had remained similar. It also shows Ms Es outstanding debt had reduced 
slightly, to £9,200. Including Ms Es living expenses and accommodation costs, estimated at 
£600, she was left with £457. And when I estimate her minimum monthly payments on her 
existing debt, Ms E was left with £166 a month. So again, I think this shouldve shown to 
NewDay that any additional credit was likely to be unaffordable as Ms E wouldnt have been 
able to repay it within a sustainable way.
Putting things right
As I think NewDay have acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think NewDay should 
do to put things right. Any direction or award I make is intended to place Ms E back in the 
situation she wouldve been in had NewDay not made an error in the first place. So, 
crucially, Im unable to place Ms E in a position of betterment. Considering this, Ms E has 
had the benefit of the funds NewDay provided to her. So I think she should repay any capital 
amount shes used.
But I dont think its fair for Ms E to pay the interest and charges applied to her account, 
where I feel NewDay have lent unfairly. This is because, if NewDay had acted fairly, this 
credit wouldnt have been provided to Ms E, so she wouldnt have been able to accrue 
interest and charges on these amounts. So, I think NewDay should refund any interest and 
charges applied to each account that I feel was approved unfairly. And for those accounts I 
think were fairly approved, NewDay should refund Ms E any interest and charges applied on 
limit increases I think were unfair. If these actions result in Ms E being owed capital refunds, 
NewDay should also pay 8% statutory interest from the dates Ms E made payments the 
accounts to the date the refund is issued.  My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Es complaint about NewDay Ltd trading as 
Amazon MasterCard and direct them to take the following action:
For Account M, refund any interest and charges applied to the account from April 
2016;
For Account A, refund any interest and charges applied to the account from 
November 2016;
For Accounts Z, F and D refund any interest and charges applied to the accounts; 
and
If the above results in Ms E being owed a capital refund on any of the accounts, 
apply 8% statutory interest to this amount from date of a payment to the date the 
refund is issued.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman