DRN-3439213
The complaint
Ms L complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly ended alternative accommodation 
it had arranged. 
Any reference to Fairmead in my decision includes third-party firms that have acted on the 
insurers behalf.
What happened
As part of her home insurance claim, Ms L asked Fairmead to provide alternative 
accommodation for her daughter because of a medical condition. Fairmead arranged 
alternative accommodation and this was extended multiple times during the period of works 
to Ms Ls home. Alongside this, Fairmead also paid a daily disturbance allowance of £10. 
After around four months, Fairmead decided to end the arrangement as it decided that 
Ms Ls home had become habitable.
Ms L complained about this decision  she said the carpets in her home were still due to be 
replaced and was concerned that dust and mould on the carpets would affect her daughter. 
Ms L was also unhappy that Fairmead didnt pay her the cost of the daily breakfast her 
daughter missed out on because the restaurant at the accommodation had been closed for 
some of the time. Ms L says she paid out of her own pocket so that her daughter could 
remain in alternative accommodation and she wants Fairmead to reimburse her the cost of 
this.
In its response, Fairmead explained that Ms Ls home had been deemed habitable, so the 
insurer didnt think it had made an unfair decision. As a good will gesture, it offered to pay 
Ms L £5 per day for the period the restaurant at the accommodation was closed  totalling 
£410. It also offered to pay Ms L £300 compensation.
Ms L didnt accept this and asked this service to review her complaint. Our investigator 
concluded that Fairmead had acted fairly. Ms L didnt agree and asked for a final decision.
I should point out that this service has previously considered a separate complaint brought to 
us by Ms L regarding this claim. As our investigator set out, Ill only consider and comment 
on the issues that relate to this particular complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Fairmead has acted fairly. I know Ms L will be disappointed to hear 
this, so Ill explain why. This matter has been ongoing for quite some time and a lot has 
happened during the period of this claim. For ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to the issues 
that are relevant to my decision. The parties can be reassured that, even if I havent 
specifically referred to certain facts or information, Ive taken everything into account.
The terms of the policy do not specifically set out when Fairmead can end an alternative 
accommodation arrangement. The only limit set by the terms is the cost limit, which is 
£25,000. Fairmead says it decided to end the alternative accommodation arrangement 
because the only works that remained were the carpet replacement and the cupboard  so it 
deemed Ms Ls home to be habitable.
Fairmead says its decision on whether a property is unhabitable is decided on a case-by-
case basis. The insurer says the works that remained wouldnt have affected Ms L or her 
daughter and it felt there was enough space in Ms Ls home to maintain social distancing. 
Based on this, Im satisfied Fairmead acted reasonably when it decided to end the 
alternative accommodation arrangement.
Ms L says she was concerned about mould she identified on some of the carpet. She felt 
that this would affect her daughters medical condition when the carpets were removed. Ms L 
hasnt been able to definitively confirm that what shes seen on the carpet was indeed 
mould. Ive seen some images of the carpet, but I cant fairly conclude that Fairmead 
shouldve relived on these images alone to conclude that there was mould present on the 
carpet.
Fairmead also points out that its loss adjuster didnt find evidence of mould and the cleaning 
firm it hired couldnt lift the marks that were on the carpet  so the insurer thinks its unlikely 
there was mould in the property as mould marks wouldve lifted during the cleaning process. 
Given theres uncertainty as to whether there was mould on Ms Ls carpet, I cant fairly 
conclude that Fairmead shouldnt have deemed Ms Ls home as habitable and ended the 
alternative accommodation when it did. So I wont be asking the insurer to reimburse Ms L 
the costs she incurred by paying to extend the accommodation herself.
Fairmead was refunded the daily cost of the breakfast Ms Ls daughter was unable to 
receive due to the restaurant at the accommodation being closed. Ms L thinks that the 
insurer should pay what it was refunded to her. I dont agree that it should. 
Fairmead already paid a daily disturbance allowance of £10. As our investigator points out, 
the refund the insurer received allows it to reduce the overall cost of the claim. Theres 
nothing in the policy terms that suggests Ms L should receive a cash equivalent for services 
not received as part of the claim. As a goodwill gesture, Fairmead offered to pay a total of 
£410 from the refund it received as well as £300 compensation. I think this is fair, so I wont 
be asking the insurer to pay anything more to Ms L.
In summary, Im satisfied that Fairmead acted fairly and in line with its terms when it decided 
to end the alternative accommodation it had arranged. And for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I wont be asking the insurer to increase the offer it has made to Ms L. If Ms L wishes 
to accept Fairmeads offer, she should reach out to the insurer directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited has acted fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman