DRN-2832291
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about additional borrowing they applied for on their mortgage 
with Nationwide Building Society. They are unhappy that whilst the decision in principle was 
an accept, Nationwide later declined the application, leaving them in a difficult position as 
theyd already started building works.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2017. In 2020 they decided they 
wanted to borrow more money to complete some alterations to their home. The decision in 
principle that Nationwide issued to Mr and Mrs B on 16 July 2020 was based on them 
borrowing £25,000 over the remaining term of the existing mortgage. The document 
confirmed it was not a mortgage offer and an application would be subject to Nationwides 
lending criteria, the valuation and a review of the application by an underwriter. 
An application, made on the same basis as the decision in principle, was submitted the 
following day.  Mr and Mrs B confirmed they would be using the money for structural home 
improvements. They listed their liabilities as just over £7,000 of credit card debt and a 
student loan; none of which would be cleared from the further advance funds. Mr and Mrs B 
needed to submit some information to support the application and there were various 
questions and responses given. 
On 18 August 2020 Mr B spoke to two members of staff at Nationwide. The conversation 
started with Mr B confirming why they had taken a payment holiday and that they were being 
asked for information that theyd already given. the member of staff looked at the application 
and input the information and confirmed that the information would now be reviewed. Mr B 
said the valuation had been booked and asked about increasing the amount they were 
borrowing. He asked if they would need to do a new application for that to happen. The 
adviser confirmed that the changes could be done over the phone, but if they were made the 
application would go back to the refer process. The adviser thought this process would be 
quite quick as the application had already been approved. Mr B made it clear that he and 
Mrs B had started the building work and didnt want to delay the further advance process. He 
was told the member of staff didnt think there would be a huge delay, but there might be a 
few days delay. The adviser said the service standard for the valuation to be assessed was 
eight days and the referral process could be done at the same time. Mr B decided to go 
ahead with the increase to the further advance, so it was arranged for him to speak to 
someone in the relevant team who could make the changes to the application. 
The member of staff who subsequently altered the application informed Mr B that it had been 
declined because of undeclared credit. There was then a conversation about the new credit 
card debt and further information was added to the application, which had to be referred for 
reapproval. Mr B was told that this was likely to take a few days. 
Nationwide received the valuation report the following day, but it wasnt logged on the 
system until 1 September 2020. In the meantime, the referral of the amended application 
was considered. On 20 August 2020 it was noted that some further information was needed, 
including questions about the new debts that had been identified since the last checks had 
been done. The same day Mr and Mrs B told Nationwide they would be paying off the debts 
from the mortgage advance.  Nationwide wanted the new debts to be paid off before the 
further advance funds were paid out. Mr and Mrs B said they couldnt do this. The 
application was assessed again and subsequently declined. 
On 2 September Mr and Mrs B complained about the application process  it had taken too 
long, promises about timescales werent met and kept changing and the valuation had taken 
too long. They were also unhappy that the application had been declined.
The application was referred the same day for reassessment. However, Nationwide didnt 
change its decision. It explained that the funds from a further advance needed to be used for 
the purpose stated in the application and if Mr and Mrs B wanted to change the use of the 
funds, they would need to change the application. As things stood under the existing 
application, the debts needed to be cleared and they would need to provide proof this had 
happened. 
Mr and Mrs Bs broker contacted Nationwide on 24 September 2020 to instruct the 
cancellation of the application.
Nationwide responded to the complaint and confirmed that there were times when the 
service timescales indicated by its advisers werent met. In addition, the valuation took too 
long. As such, it offered Mr and Mrs B £125 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with what Nationwide had said and it provided a further 
response. It highlighted that when the application was made it was told the money was to be 
used for structural work on the property, but further information indicated that Mr and Mrs B 
were also settling some debts with the funds. This was new information and so needed to be 
looked into. Nationwide said it wasnt willing to consolidate unsecured debts to the mortgage, 
and as they were not being cleared before the advance would have been made, it wasnt 
willing to lend. 
In addition, Nationwide pointed out that the decision in principle was not a guarantee of 
lending or a mortgage offer. Also, that the application was always subject to a full 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and valuation of the property. As such, they 
started the works on their home at their own risk. Nationwide also pointed out that it was 
confirmed when Mr and Mrs B applied, they shouldnt make any material changes to the 
application, or it might be declined. It said the original four to six-week timescale for the 
application to be assessed was reset when Mr and Mrs B changed the application 
mid-process. This then identified there were debts that had not previously been declared. 
Nationwide explained that as there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs B would use the 
money for the purposes theyd said they would, once an advance was made, it asked that 
the new debts were cleared before that. As evidence that this would happen was not 
provided, the application was declined. Nationwide increased the compensation offered by 
£50 to take account of how long it took it to respond to the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept Nationwides response and referred their complaint to this 
service. They explained that because Nationwide wouldnt lend them the money they 
wanted, theyd ended up with an unsecured loan for £10,000 and £20,000 on credit cards. 
They believed this would cost them more than if Nationwide had lent them the £30,000 they 
wanted on their mortgage.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, but he didnt recommend it 
be upheld. He agreed that Nationwide had made mistakes in the processing of the 
application, but he concluded much of the stress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B suffered 
was because the building work started earlier than originally planned on the assumption the money from Nationwide would be received. As such, he considered the compensation 
offered by Nationwide was sufficient. In relation to the decision not to lend, the investigator 
didnt find that Nationwide did anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said that the telephone call 
on 18 August 2020 wasnt initially made to request an increase in lending; it was made to 
check up on the progress of the existing application. Mr B said that he made it clear to 
Nationwide, because of the delays that had already occurred, he didnt want to increase the 
borrowing if it would mean starting the process again, so they would dispute Nationwides 
excuse for the timeliness was due to restarting the application. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs B believed that had the increase in lending not been requested, 
there wouldnt have been any issues in the application being accepted. they said they 
considered the advice they received during the application to increase was misleading. 
Furthermore, had they received a full explanation about the new debts on 20 August 2020 
when they were first asked about it, they could have cleared the debt. Mr and Mrs B said 
they understood that we couldnt make Nationwide lend to them based on the original 
application, but £175 was insufficient compensation. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Bs further comments, but they didnt change his 
conclusions. As such, they asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accepted that the service Mr and Mrs B received wasnt good enough in that 
documents werent uploaded when they should have been and timescales werent met. It 
offered £125 for these errors. Ive considered the matter and I think thats a reasonable 
amount in the circumstances. The additional £50 for delays in a complaint process would 
also seem an appropriate sum.
At the core of this complaint is Nationwides decision not to lend to Mr and Mrs B. However, 
there was never a guarantee that Nationwide would agree Mr and Mrs Bs application to 
borrow more money against their home. Whilst it looked likely Nationwide would do so, 
based on what it had been told in the application, it hadnt made a definite decision at the 
point Mr and Mrs B changed their application. So its not possible to say that the further 
advance would have been agreed had they not changed the amount. 
When Mr and Mrs B changed their application, Mr B was told that doing so shouldnt delay 
the application by much. He was also told that it would move the application back to the 
beginning of the review stage, but as the existing application was at that stage already, the 
adviser didnt think there would be a problem. That information turned out to be wrong, but I 
dont think the adviser could have known he wasnt giving Mr B accurate information. The 
adviser and Nationwide werent aware of the new debt at that point. The discovery of further 
debt was a significant change to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, on which the application 
had been progressed to that point. 
Once Nationwide was aware of the new debt, it needed to reconsider the situation and 
application. That isnt unreasonable  a lender is entitled to consider any new information it 
receives. Mr and Mrs B dont think the new debt altered the situation as Nationwide 
considered it did, because they would be paying off the new debt from the further advance. 
However, a lender cant make a borrower use funds in the way they have said they will. So 
Nationwide couldnt guarantee the new debts Mr and Mrs B were in the process of accruing wouldnt still exist down the line and potentially make the existing mortgage and the new 
further advance unaffordable. Overall, I am not persuaded that Nationwide acted 
unreasonably in relation to the additional debt it discovered Mr and Mrs B had or in declining 
the application once it discovered the new debt. 
Mr and Mrs B explained that they found the situation very stressful. I have considered this, 
and I agree with our investigator; the majority of the stress they would have suffered was 
because they had started spending the funds theyd asked Nationwide for before it had 
agreed to lend them. I dont think I can blame Nationwide for that stress, as it didnt provide 
any guarantee that it would agree to the borrowing Mr and Mrs B wanted.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman