DRN-3663011
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) in 1995.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs PPI policy was set up around the same time as the mortgage was arranged 
in February 1995. 
I wrote a provisional decision earlier this month in which I explained why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. In response to my provisional decision, both parties stated that they 
had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when considering this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed to make it clear that Mr and Mrs H has a choice about taking out PPI. 
Looking at a copy of the mortgage application form dated 1 February 1995, there is a section 
for MortgageSure (which was the brand name of the PPI). There are Yes and No boxes to 
either select or request PPI. The Yes box has been ticked but then crossed through. The 
No box has then been ticked. The rest of the PPI section has then been scored through as 
not being relevant. It seems clear that Mr and Mrs H did not want to buy PPI at this point.
Lloyds sent Mr and Mrs H a mortgage offer letter on 20 February 1995 (although Lloyds has 
supplied a copy of the same letter dated 8 February 1995). This letter confirms that PPI was 
Not Taken.  Lloyds then sent Mr and Mrs H a mortgage completion letter on 27 February 
1995 which notes that PPI is Not Applicable.
Lloyds has said that the PPI started at the same time as the mortgage. From the evidence 
Ive seen, it appears that Mr and Mrs H said they didnt want PPI but somehow ended up 
with it anyway. Lloyds hasnt provided any evidence that Mr and Mrs H changed their minds 
and decided to buy PPI shortly after the mortgage had completed.
As neither party has made any further substantive comments, I see no reason to depart from 
the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. Therefore. based on the available 
evidence, I am unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs H were given a choice about buying the 
PPI. It follows that I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
Lloyds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr or Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off 
what they got from the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs H.
Lloyds can deduct the amount it has already paid for unfair commission from the 
amount it owes Mr and Mrs H.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to 
pay fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman