DRN-4214988
The complaint
Mrs L complains that JAJA FINANCE LTD (JAJA) didnt do enough to help her to recover 
money she paid using her credit card for services that she was unable to use due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs L had planned to fly abroad for a family holiday in April 2020. She wanted to visit a 
particular group of tourist attractions at her destination and, in common with other members 
of her group, bought passes using her JAJA credit card. Her three passes were supplied by 
a third party, T, and could be used at any time during the 12 months following purchase. 
The passes were valid for 13 days after first use, which needed to be on or before 31 
December 2020.
After Mrs L bought the passes her planned holiday was caught by restrictions imposed due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. The holiday was changed to May 2021 and the tourist attraction 
U told Mrs L it would extend the starting date of the passes to cover the revised dates. 
Unfortunately, the pandemic caused further travel restrictions that meant the new 
arrangements were also cancelled. By that stage T had ceased trading, though some of its 
trading arrangements had been taken on by another company A.
Mrs L couldnt get a refund from T or U, and A said it hadnt taken on any of Ts liabilities. So 
she turned to JAJA to see if she could recover her money through the bank. JAJA 
responded to Mrs L to say that it had considered whether she had a valid claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). This has the effect that in certain 
circumstances, a credit provider can be liable for a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
claim that the borrower might have against the supplier of goods or services.
JAJA contacted A, who reiterated that it wasnt liable for Ts prior bookings. In response to 
Mrs Ls request JAJA declined her claim. It took the position that T had fulfilled its obligations 
by providing the passes and so there was no breach of contract. Mrs L was unhappy with 
JAJAs stance and complained to it. She mentioned that other members of her group had 
been refunded, including a family member who had also paid using a JAJA credit card. 
However, JAJA maintained its position and so Mrs L referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think JAJA had dealt with Mrs Ls claim unfairly. She acknowledged 
that Mrs L had been unable to use the passes due to the holiday cancellation, but she didnt 
think this gave rise to a successful section 75 claim. The investigator noted the attractions 
were open for business in May 2021, and that T had provided the contracted service of 
providing the passes.
Mrs L still thinks shes been treated unfairly and has asked for this review.
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought it should be resolved. Ive reproduced my provisional decision 
below, and it forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision
Because Mrs L paid by credit card there are two possible ways in which JAJA might be able 
to assist her to recover the money. One of those is through a section 75 claim against JAJA. 
The other is through the card schemes chargeback process. Here, Mrs L made her claim via 
section 75. Based on the correspondence between her and JAJA, she appears to have done 
so following a conversation with a JAJA representative.
I dont think JAJA acted unreasonably in defending the section 75 claim. I can see the 
potential difficulties in such a claim being successful, given the separate contractual 
obligations that were created between Mrs L, T and U. But I dont think its necessary for me 
to go into detail on that issue. I say this because in relation to the way JAJA handled matters 
overall, there is sufficient evidence to persuade me that it is appropriate that it reimburses 
Mrs L. Ill explain why.
Ive already mentioned the alternative methods by which JAJA might have looked to deal 
with Mrs Ls request. This is of particular relevance in this case, because the chargeback 
process provided the mechanism by which Mrs Ls relative obtained her refund. A central 
aspect of Mrs Ls complaint was the apparent discrepancy in the two outcomes, given that 
the purchases were made in the same way. So I intend to focus here on whether JAJAs 
acted fairly towards Mrs L by considering her request only in the context of section 75 and 
not chargeback.
Having asked JAJA about this, it says it only looked at section 75 because that was what 
Mrs L had specified in her correspondence. Noting that correspondence followed a 
conversation between JAJA and Mrs L, there is the possibility that JAJA ought to have 
mentioned both mechanisms in its initial dealings with her. I dont think Mrs L should be 
expected to know all methods by which JAJA could deal with her reimbursement request. 
But I would expect JAJA to know these, given its role as a card issuer. And clearly it did 
know this, because it raised a chargeback claim on behalf of Mrs Ls relative.
Theres no contractual or current regulatory obligation on JAJA to raise a chargeback when 
asked. But I have to take into account what I consider to be good practice. And weve long 
said that good practice would be for a card issuer to raise a chargeback where a right 
exists1. It should take care when doing so to ensure all necessary information is submitted.
And it should satisfy itself that any defence submitted accords with the grounds set out in the 
card scheme rules. However, I dont think its for the card issuer to assume the claim will be 
defended, or how the merchant might frame its response.
Here, Mrs Ls claim under chargeback is in all material respects the same as her relatives 
claim. The information JAJA has provided to me about the other claim and its actions in 
raising it suggest to me there were appropriate grounds to raise a chargeback on Mrs Ls 
behalf. And the fact the other claim successfully recovered the money paid means Ive no 
real reason to think Mrs Ls claim would have resulted in a different outcome.
That being the case, Im minded to find that JAJAs decision only to deal with Mrs Ls request 
as a section 75 claim meant it hasnt treated her fairly. Further, it has resulted in a loss to her 
that she wouldnt have incurred if JAJA had considered a chargeback. JAJAs handling of 
Mrs Ls claim fell short of what I would consider to be a reasonable standard, taking into 
account what in my view represents good practice. Because of that shortcoming, Mrs L 
1 See, for example, case studies on our website and our publications: Ombudsman News Issue 3
(March 2001); Ombudsman News Issue 78 (July/Aug 2009)wasnt able to recover her money via chargeback when it appears she had a reasonable 
prospect of doing so.
It follows that I currently hold the view that the fair way to resolve this complaint is for JAJA 
to pay Mrs L compensation equivalent to the money she lost, along with a modest amount in 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience she experienced due to JAJAs 
handling of her request. Noting Mrs L paid just over £800 for the passes, I consider it 
appropriate to round this up and require JAJA to pay her £900 in total.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they 
wished to make in response to my intended conclusions.
Both JAJA and Mrs L accepted my findings and proposed resolution. With this in mind, I see 
no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. Im satisfied its a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this individual complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, JAJA FINANCE LTD must pay Mrs L £900.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman