DRN-3515985
The complaint
Mr T complains about the interest rebate he was provided with when he terminated a finance 
agreement for a car, early.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination, and early 
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement 
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. It says that the settlement date becomes 28 days after receipt 
of the settlement request and it goes on to allow the creditor, if the loan is for more than one 
year, to defer the settlement date by 30 days. So that explains the 58-day charges Mr T is 
complaining about. 
Mr T says he understands those regulations and he accepts that under them it is possible for 
the business to charge for an additional 58 days. But he doesnt think it is fair of MBFS to 
have done so. Hes explained that hed only had the car for 110 days and that the potential 
charge should, fairly, have been listed in the credit agreement he had  but wasnt. Hes 
referred me to the Financial Conduct Authorities (FCAs) Principles for Business rules and 
has said MBFS hadnt been fair to him.
The early settlement terms arent explicitly referred to in the credit agreement and I 
understand Mr Ts concern. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and 
explaining each and every term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length. 
The credit agreement says that in the case of early repayment:
you must pay the following.
 Any payments and other sums that you should have paid under this agreement; plus
 the balance of the total amount payable under this agreement (which includes any Optional 
Purchase Payment and Purchase Activation Fee);
Less
 any rebate of interest (where applicable) for early payment.
The calculation of the early settlement rebate is laid down in statute and isnt something 
MBFS have any say over, nor is the right to deferment of the settlement date.
Im not persuaded MBFS were unfair to insist on the 58-day deferment. I think its fair to 
suggest that deferment is provided to counterbalance the requirement for the business to 
rebate interest they would otherwise have been entitled to and for the initial setting up costs 
the business had to pay. Those costs were incurred regardless of the term that the contract 
ran for.
Im not therefore asking MBFS to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman