DRN-2205653
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that her home insurance claim for storm damage to her garden wall has 
been rejected by Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs Fs garden wall collapsed during a heavy storm. It was an old cob 
wall, with coping stones and tiles on the top of it. She made a claim to Aviva and supplied 
some photos of the damage. Avivas claims assessor reviewed the photos but came to the 
conclusion that the wall was very old and the tiled cap on it was in poor condition. It said the 
collapse of the wall was consistent with an age related issue more so than a one off storm 
event. And that the "cope" (coping stones/tiles) was not sufficient and in poor health, that 
water had likely been leaking in to the cob and expanding the wall over a period of time. It 
agreed that there was a storm on the day in question but didnt believe that to be the 
dominant cause of the damage.
Mrs F obtained a report from a firm of surveyors who said the cause of the damage was 
likely to be the due to winds dislodging the capping on the wall with water then penetrating 
into the cob and causing the collapse.
Aviva reviewed the report but still declined the claim. It pointed out that Mrs Gs surveyor had 
said that the water penetrating the cob had been a gradual issue. It maintained its view that 
the damage wasnt caused by a one off storm event. Mrs F disagreed and Aviva passed the 
matter to loss adjusters who carried out a desktop review of the claim and agreed with 
Avivas findings.
Mrs F referred her complaint to this service She was unhappy with the way the claim had 
been dealt with, particularly as Aviva didnt send anybody out to assess the damage.
Our investigator thought that Aviva had acted reasonably and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said that although there was a storm, the evidence showed the damage to be a gradual 
process rather than a one off event due to the storm. She thought the overall handling of the 
claim was reasonable. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When assessing whether there is storm damage under a home insurance policy, we ask 
three questions. It is only if the answer to each of those questions is "Yes that it is most 
likely that we would tell an insurer to deal with a claim as storm damage. The questions are:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
2.   Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.   Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
For damage to be covered it has to be caused by a one-off storm event, not a period of 
general bad weather. The local weather records for the date of the incident showed there to 
be a maximum windspeed of 55mph and heavy rainfall, around the time Mrs F made the 
claim. All parties agree there were storm conditions.
damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes
Here a wall blew down, and high winds are consistent with this type of damage so I would 
say the answer to this question is yes.
were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Aviva has assessed the damage but only through a desk top report and review of the 
photos. Mrs F instructed a firm of surveyors who came out and inspected the wall. Their 
conclusion was:
From the inspection undertaken and following the recent storms, we would conclude that
winds have dislodged some of the capping to the wall, with water then penetrating into the
cob, until such time that the further wet weather and high winds have caused the collapse.
This would indicate to me that the collapse of the wall was a gradual process happening 
over a period of bad weather. The report did go on to say that the rest of the wall was still 
standing and was in good order with no works required.
Aviva pointed out in its review that:
The wall was in a sheltered position and a number of aspects would have blocked the 
wind on the day in question.
The wall was over 100 years old and had been subject to a number of patches over the 
years.
There was a lot of external mould growth on the render showing that moisture had been 
penetrating for a considerable period.
Part of the wall had been taken down a few years previously and replaced by a wooden 
fence panel.
Mrs F mentioned in her claim call that the wall was in a sheltered position. Taking that into 
account and the photos coupled with the point that Mrs Fs surveyor thought the water had 
penetrated over a period of time, I think that storm conditions werent the dominant cause of 
the damage. So unfortunately the claim isnt covered under the storm part of the policy. And 
as an aside I note that Mrs F doesnt have extended accidental damage cover under her 
policy, so it wouldnt be covered under that part of the policy either. 
Lastly I understand Mrs Fs disquiet at the way the claim appeared to have been handled. In 
particular she had to chase up for the loss adjusters report, and was upset that Aviva didnt 
send anyone out.
Its unfortunate that Mrs F wasnt told straightaway of the loss adjusters conclusions. She was told fairly quickly that Aviva wouldnt be paying the claim. And the reason for the referral 
to the loss adjuster was to get an independent view. This should have been notified to her 
without her having to chase it up but I dont think that overall the claim was poorly handled.
As far as assessing the damage on site, Aviva didnt have to do this if it considered that the 
photos (which were very clear) and other evidence were sufficient. I think in this case it was 
able to do this  there werent any particular points raised by her surveyors which in my view 
would have needed a personal visit.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman