DRN-3642036
The complaint
Ms C complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) shouldve advised
her to transfer her existing investment holdings into the SJP Money Market Fund in February
2020 when she raised concerns about her investment funds performance due to the impact
of Covid-19.
What happened
Ms C invested into an investment bond with SJP in August 2015. On 6 February 2020 Ms C 
contacted SJP by email to ask for advice on what impact Covid-19 might have on her 
investments  if any. SJP replied and said they were monitoring the situation.
On 25 February Ms C emailed SJP and asked if they could give any indication of how secure
her investments were, and if it was necessary to move, close or maybe even cash in some
of them given that they may depreciate further. SJP replied to say the investment portfolio
was invested in lower risk funds and the current value at close of business the previous day
was £169,687. And they told Ms C that even with the sharp drop in the financial markets, the
current value of the investment hadnt changed dramatically. SJP added they didnt feel
switching any funds, cashing in some of the investment or even closing the investment
would be the right strategy moving forward.
On 27 February Ms C and SJP spoke on the telephone and SJP recommended a switch to
some of her funds, which Ms C agreed to. SJP emailed Ms C confirmation of the switch the
same day and confirmed the value of the funds held by Ms C.
After the markets declined over the following days, Ms C called SJP on 6 March and
explained she didnt want to remain invested as she felt the adverse impact of Covid-19 on
her investment would continue. During this call SJP recommended the SJP Money Market 
Fund as a suitable investment and it was agreed the funds would be switched to the SJP 
Money Market Fund. As this instruction was received after 12:00 pm, the switch was made 
the following working day, which in this case was Monday 9 March. The value of Ms Cs 
investment funds fell significantly over this weekend before the funds were sold and re-
invested into the SJP Money Market Fund.
SJP say they contacted Ms C to review her investments in May 2020 and Ms C said she
wanted to leave her funds invested in the SJP Money Market Fund. Ms C encashed her 
investment bond in September 2020.
Ms C complained to SJP that they shouldve told her earlier about the SJP Money Market
Fund, and that if she had been told about it, she wouldve invested in that fund much earlier.
She also complained that the switch she made into the SJP Money Market Fund on 6 March
didnt happen until 9 March and that the markets had fallen significantly over that weekend.
Ms C said she suffered a final loss from her pre-Covid-19 valuation when she encashed
her investment in September 2020.
SJP didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint and explained theyd acted reasonably when Ms C had
concerns about the risk Covid-19 might have on her investments and took reasonable steps
to further reduce her exposure to volatility. And that because Ms Cs instruction to switch to
the SJP Money Market Fund had been received after the cut-off point for the day, they
switched the funds in line with their terms and conditions.
Ms C wasnt happy with the final response received from SJP and she brought her complaint
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things for Ms C
and thought that because Ms C had clearly expressed her needs and concerns SJP ought
reasonably to have told her about the SJP Money Market fund on 27 February. And, if they
had, it is more likely than not Ms C wouldve switched all of her funds on this date into the
fund. The Investigator thought that SJP should calculate any losses Ms C suffered based on
the switch being made on 27 February and the bond being encashed on 4 September. And
that a simple interest adjustment be made along with a payment to Ms C of £100 for the
trouble and upset Ms C experienced.
Ms C accepted the thoughts of our Investigator but SJP didnt and asked that an
Ombudsman decides the complaint.
As I reached a significantly different conclusion to that of the Investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision to Ms C and SJP and asked them to respond by 11 August 2022. In my 
provisional decision I said I intended saying that, in the circumstances of this case, St. 
James's Place Wealth Management Plc provided reasonable advice to Ms C when she 
requested it. And that I intended saying St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc didnt 
cause any delays when the investment bond funds were switched to the SJP Money Market 
Fund because the funds were switched in line with the terms and conditions of the 
investment bond.
Ive now carefully considered the comments from both parties and Ive decided that its fair 
and reasonable for me to adopt my provisional decision as my final decision. I will address 
the comments Ms C provided in my final decision below. SJP provided no further comments 
for me to consider. As both parties have provided their comments to my provisional decision, 
I have now made my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Ms Cs comments that my provisional decision was unfair and biased towards 
SJP. Ms C questions why my provisional decision was significantly different to the 
conclusion reached by the Investigator. I acknowledge my provisional decision was 
significantly different to the conclusions of the Investigator, but I independently reviewed the 
evidence and formed a different my conclusion based on what I think most likely happened. 
Without transcripts or recordings of the telephone calls between 6 February and 6 March Ive 
formed my decision on the evidence and submissions made by Ms C and SJP. I consider 
this to be a fair and reasonable approach in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate Ms C is extremely disappointed that I consider SJP didnt do anything 
significantly wrong. But Ive given more weight to the evidence supporting that its more likely 
than not Ms C didnt tell SJP her attitude to investment risk had significantly changed until 6 
March. This is why my conclusion differs from that of the Investigator.
The crux of Ms Cs complaint is that if shed have been told about the SJP Money Market 
Fund earlier than she was, she wouldve switched her funds earlier than she did. Ms C says 
that it was her who instigated discussions about the performance of her investments in 
February and March 2020. Ms C says this wasnt the level of service she expected because she thought SJP shouldve been more proactive She feels these discussions shouldve been 
instigated by SJP in view of the financial meltdown at the time. 
My final decision considers the actions of SJP during this period and whether they acted 
reasonably. It takes into account the level of service SJP said they would provide as 
indicated within the key features document previously provided to Ms C when she made her 
investment. This stated, We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have 
assessed your needs. 
Neither Ms C nor SJP have been able to provide copies of the telephone conversations 
between 6 February and 6 March 2020. And, although I cant be sure what was agreed or 
said in these calls, Ive made my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened 
taking into account the written evidence from the time and the submissions Ms C and SJP 
have made to the Financial Ombudsman Service. For the avoidance of any doubt these 
include comments in the complaint correspondence, the complaint form, emails provided by 
both parties and comments to my provisional decision.
6 to 27 February 2020
The email exchange between Ms C and SJP on 6 February reflects Ms Cs concerns about 
the impact Covid-19 may have on her investment. When SJP received this email, they 
reassured Ms C they were monitoring the position. It seems likely to me that Ms C was 
reassured by this and it wasnt until 25 February that she raised any further concerns.
When Ms C emailed SJP again on 25 February they initially reassured Ms C she was
invested in low risk funds that were in line with her attitude to investment risk. It seems to me 
that SJP assessed the needs of Ms C  as expressed in her email - and made a 
recommendation not to switch any funds, and not to recommend cashing in some of the 
investment or closing the investment at this time. 
Its not my role to provide alternative advice, but I do have to consider if the advice provided 
was reasonable at the time it was given. SJPs view was that Ms C was already invested in 
low risk funds and these were aligned to her attitude to investment risk. In these 
circumstances Im persuaded SJP provided a reasonable recommendation at this time. I 
consider its more likely than not Ms C accepted the recommendation to leave the funds 
invested as they were, and what Ive seen doesnt persuade me Ms C told SJP her attitude 
to investment risk had changed significantly at this time.
Ms C and SJP accept a further telephone call took place on 27 February and that SJP made 
a recommendation to switch some funds. There is no telephone recording for me to refer to, 
but Ive seen the email SJP sent to Ms C after the call. This details SJP recommended 70% 
of her funds be switched to Corporate Bond funds. It seems likely Ms C accepted this advice 
and agreed to the switch transaction. Ive not seen anything to persuade me Ms C 
expressed a desire to withdraw her funds from the market at this time or that her attitude to 
risk had significantly changed. The funds were switched in line with the terms and conditions 
of the investment bond. 
Theres no dispute the SJP Money Market Fund wasnt part of the recommendations made 
by SJP at this time. Ms C feels that it was at this point SJP should reasonably have 
recommended her funds be switched to the SJP Money Market Fund. And that if shed 
received this recommendation, she wouldve switched into this fund at this time at the latest. 
However, taking into account SJP provided advice when requested to do so, and that the 
advice given seems to be reasonably aligned to Ms Cs on-going attitude to investment risk 
at this time, Im persuaded SJP did nothing substantially wrong. In my opinion, SJP 
assessed Ms Cs need to mitigate the risk of her investment further and made reasonable recommendations which were accepted by Ms C. I appreciate Ms C says she wouldve 
invested in the SJP Money Market Fund if shed been told about it, but the emails Ive seen, 
and the submissions made by Ms C, dont persuade me shed expressed a wish to 
significantly reduce her investment risk at this time. 
6 March 2020
It seems to me, on the balance of probabilities, this is the first time Ms C first expressed the 
view she may want to withdraw from her investment, or at least hold it in a more liquid form. I 
will now deal with what I consider is more likely to have happened on this day.
Ms C expressed ongoing concerns about the impact of Covid-19 when she called SJP on 6 
March. Its not disputed that Ms Cs mounting concerns resulted in a switch of all of her 
funds to the SJP Money Market Fund and that this was agreed during this call. Having read 
the submissions from Ms C and SJP about this call, its clear to me Ms C had become more
anxious about protecting her investment. I empathise with Ms C in this regard as the equity 
markets were volatile at the time. It seems Ms C felt the pandemic would get worse and she
didnt want to remain invested. SJP say Ms C was aware there was an exit penalty of 1.75% 
if shed encashed her investment at this time and that the penalty ended in August 2020.
Both Ms C and SJP accept this was the first time SJP mentioned the SJP Money Market 
Fund as a suitable fund. The aim of this fund is to preserve capital and maintain liquidity for 
investors seeking access to their investments. It seems more likely than not SJPs 
recommendation took into account Ms C was now looking for less risk and she understood 
there would be a penalty to encash the investment. These seem to be the key factors in 
SJPs decision to recommend SJP Money Market Fund as it reduced the investment risk in 
line with what Ms C was likely seeking. And it kept the funds relatively liquid for the next six-
months without Ms C suffering a 1.75% penalty if she encashed any of the investments.
Taking into account the circumstances of this case, I dont think SJPs recommendation to 
Ms C to invest all of her funds into the SJP Money Market Fund at this time was 
unreasonable. This gets to the crux of Ms Cs complaint. Im persuaded SJP didnt do 
anything significantly wrong once they assessed Ms C had become more risk averse 
because of market conditions. But crucially, in my opinion, the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
support its likely Ms C told SJP she wanted to take significantly less risk with her investment 
and avoid a penalty for encashing funds before 6 March. 
Switch instructed on 6 March
Although Ms C agreed a switch to the SJP Money Market Fund on 6 March 2020, she did so
after the cut off time for dealing that day. Unfortunately for Ms C the market fell between 6
March (Friday) and 9 March (Monday) and the switch of funds resulted in Ms Cs investment 
falling in value prior to the execution of the sale of her existing funds.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the investment bond of Ms C, in particular
what SJP say about switching funds. The terms and conditions say, Provided we receive
your completed switch request form at our Administration Centre by 12pm on a Working
Day, we will use the Bid Prices that apply on that Working Day; otherwise we will use the Bid
Prices that apply on the next Working Day. In this case its not disputed the switch request
was made after midday on 6 March, so the switch of the funds took place using the prices on 
the next working day. In this case the next working day was 9 March.
Ms C referred me to an email dated 6 March, timed at 15:48, that she received from SJP 
confirming The switch has been done. Ms C says that SJP didnt tell her on 6 March that 
the actual prices used for the switch would be those on the next working day. I reviewed this email again and I can see that it also explains Your latest balance which is at close of 
business yesterday 5th March was {} it therefore does not take into account any 
movements up or down today {6 March}. Regardless of this, Im satisfied SJP acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the investment bond, and although the wording in the email 
didnt explicitly explain the switch would be based on the next working days price, it did 
make it reasonably clear that price movements were still possible.
The markets fell over the weekend, so I have some empathy with Ms C here that
this resulted in a fall in the value of her investment that she never recovered. But having 
committed to the switch of funds, I dont consider it reasonable for me to hold SJP 
responsible for the fall in the value of the funds until the funds were sold in line with the 
terms and conditions of the investment bond. SJP didnt delay in processing the fund switch 
Ms C approved.
SJP say they offered to review Ms Cs investments again in May 2020, and Ive seen emails 
supporting this. But it seems Ms C wished to keep the funds in the SJP Money Market Fund. 
I understand why she likely made the decision she did at the time if her attitude to 
investment risk hadnt changed since the switch in March, and it seems she intended to keep 
the funds liquid with the likely intention to encash the investment bond in September.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint against St. James's 
Place Wealth Management Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman