DRN-2586400
The complaint
Mrs S says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ss credit card account shortly after she took out her credit card. Our adjudicator upheld 
the complaint. MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint because I dont think MBNA gave her clear enough 
information about the policy. 
I say this because although Mrs S may have been told the cost was 68p per £100 of the 
outstanding balance, MBNA probably didnt explain that the premium would be added to her 
credit card balance and could attract interest. And I think its unlikely that MBNA pointed out 
that the benefit was actually less than 3% in real terms, as Mrs S would have to continue 
paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs S because at the point of sale, she says she was 
entitled to sick pay worth six months full pay, followed by six months half pay. This means 
she could have met her credit card repayments for a while without the policy. So, I think Mrs 
S probably wouldnt have wanted the policy if she had properly understood the cost and 
benefits. 
I dont think Mrs S would have bought the policy if shed had enough information about it. So, 
I think Mrs S has lost out because of what the business did wrong.  
Ive taken into account MBNAs comments, including what its said about the amount of sick 
pay it considers Mrs S was entitled to. Mrs S had been in her job for about a month when 
she took out her credit card, so MBNA considers its unlikely she was entitled to the level of 
sick pay shes referred to.
But even though Mrs S had been in her job for a relatively short period of time, she was 
working full time and had previous experience in the sector she worked in. So, on balance I 
think its likely she was entitled to the sick pay shes mentioned. 
Im also mindful that what Mrs S has told me about her sick pay has been consistent 
throughout her complaint. So I dont consider its unreasonable to accept what shes said.
Overall, I still think I should uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. MBNA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
MBNA can also take off any refund it has already made for overpaid commission. 
B. MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when MBNA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs 
S paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed MBNA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. MBNA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct MBNA Limited to pay compensation to 
Mrs S in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman