DRN-3853042
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy after their car broke down while abroad. Mr and Mrs F feel Aviva 
should reimburse the full cost of their hire car and return journey.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have travel insurance with Aviva through their bank account. 
In May 2022 they were travelling abroad in their car when it broke down on the way to their 
accommodation. The car wasnt able to be fixed, and so it was scrapped. Mr and Mrs F then 
needed to make arrangements to continue their holiday and then travel home with their pet.
 
Mr and Mrs F made a claim on their travel insurance policy with Aviva. They claimed for the 
tow truck, taxi to the hotel, car hire, train fare, and other incidentals which they paid for in 
order to carry on their holiday and get home thereafter. Aviva declined the claim in July 
2022. 
Mr and Mrs F want Aviva to pay the claim which they say should be covered under 
unexpected costs due to missed transport. And so they complained to Aviva. 
Aviva said its travel insurance policy provides cover for loss, theft, or accidental damage to 
personal belongings, or baggage during the trip. It said the circumstances Mr and Mrs F 
found themselves in fall outside the terms and conditions of the policy. And as such Aviva 
applied the policy exclusion which says any loss that isnt described in the policy isnt 
covered under it. And since Mr and Mrs Fs loss isnt described in the policy it isnt covered, 
and Aviva are bound by the terms of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with the response from Aviva and so they referred their 
complaint to this service. The investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs F. She said 
Aviva hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. And so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs F will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are allowed to decide what 
risks they are prepared to cover. The policy documents form part of the insurance contract 
and sets out what is and isnt covered. So my starting point is the policy which sets out a list 
of circumstances covered by the policy under the section headed, Unexpected costs  what 
well cover. The policy says,
Travel disruption
Well cover unexpected additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the insured 
person to continue their trip or to get home at the end of their trip, if their pre-paid travel 
plans are disrupted for the following reasons:
1. The insured person is unable to reach their departure point or their pre-arranged 
accommodation due to a natural disaster, severe weather, fire, or explosion
2. A natural disaster, severe weather, fire, explosion, or an outbreak of food poisoning 
means the insured person is unable to use their pre-booked accommodation
3. The insured persons travel or accommodation provider becomes insolvent
4. The insured persons pre-booked travel arrangements are cancelled or delayed for 
more than 12 hours from the time shown on their ticket or diverted after departure
5. The insured person is denied boarding because there are too many passengers and 
no alternative is available for more than 12 hours 
Mr and Mrs Fs claim is for costs arising from the breakdown of their vehicle. This this 
situation isnt covered in the above list of circumstances covered by the policy. So I cant say 
Aviva were wrong to decline the claim on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs F say their claim should be considered under the missed transport section of 
the policy which says, Well pay for alternative travel and accommodation costs to enable 
the insured person to reach their destination if their pre-booked transport is missed because 
of an unexpected transport delay, such as the vehicle theyre travelling in breaking down, or 
public transport being delayed. 
Ive thought about this carefully. But that section of the policy doesnt apply because the 
breakdown of the vehicle didnt lead to Mr and Mrs F missing any pre-booked transport. I 
know Mr and Mrs F say they missed their transport home owing to the loss of their vehicle 
but that was after they continued to their destination. I think Aviva acted in line with the terms 
of the policy when declining the claim on this basis. So I cant say Aviva acted unreasonably 
when doing so. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Fs frustration at not being covered for everything by their 
insurance. When the car broke down they had to arrange alternative transport  which I 
imagine would have been stressful. I can appreciate their disappointment when they learned 
their additional travel costs werent covered by their insurance. However I have looked at 
whether Aviva has acted in line with the policy when dealing with Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
Having carefully reviewed the terms and conditions I think it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman