DRN-3443099
The complaint
Ms P complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
Ms P also says that she told Morses about her health problems and it agreed not to collect
payment on the final two loans. But she says that Morses didnt tell her how her credit file
would be affected, she says Morses has marked these accounts as being in default.
What happened
Ms P took four home collected loans between May 2019 and January 2020, Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan repayment 
dateterm (weeks) weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 24/05/2019 24/10/2019 33 £10.00
2 £300.00 15/08/2019 28/01/2020 33 £10.00
3 £300.00 25/10/2019 written off 34 £15.00
4 £300.00 28/01/2020 written off 34 £15.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per loan, per week. So, where loans overlapped,
for example loans one and two, the cost per week will be more - £20.
Morses has also provided a copy of a letter it sent to Ms P in June 2020 which explained that
due to her current situation it wouldnt collect any further money due for loans 3 and 4. It also
agreed, that it wouldnt pass the balances to a third party collection agency.
Morses considered Ms Ps complaint and issued its final response letter in June 2021.
Morses explained it had carried out affordability checks and based on the results of those
checks it wasnt inappropriate to lend to Ms P.
Ms P didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and she referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman in July 2021.
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator who thought Ms Ps complaint should
be upheld in full. In his view, Ms Ps repayment for loan one represented a too high
proportion of Ms Ps declared income.
The adjudicator also thought that the low weekly income ought to have led Morses to have
carried out further checks, and had it done so, it wouldve likely discovered she was having
problems managing her money, because she had other loans outstanding with another high
cost credit provider.
The adjudicator also considered Ms Ps complaint points about the default on the credit file
and the outstanding debt. He could see that Morses had sent a letter to Ms P in June 2020
which explained it wouldnt chase her for the outstanding debt, but the debts would remain
on her credit file. So, he didnt think Morses had acted unreasonably with this element of the
complaint.
Morses partly agreed with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold Ms Ps
complaint about loan one only. It explained the refund for this loan (including 8% interest and
less tax) would be £135.31. Morses would then use this refund to reduce the balance that
had been written off. After the refund the new outstanding balance was £494.63. But Morses
wouldnt collect this amount given it had agreed not to. It also agreed to remove the loan
from Ms Ps credit file.
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions about loans 2  4. In response it said:
By the time of loan two, Ms Ps declared income had increased by 107% and by loan 
3 it had increased by a further 73%.
The income was verified using information provided by the credit reference agencies 
and the information Morses received showed the income given Ms P was correct.
Ms P signed a document to say the information she provided was correct.
The costs Ms P provided for each loan were realistic given her living arrangement.
Ms P had as much as 22% of her uncommitted income in order to meet her loan 
repayments.
Ms P didnt make Morses aware she was having financial difficulties.
No arrears letters were sent until the end of March 2020 which is after the final loan 
was granted.
Ms P was in a position to confirm with Morses at the end of November 2019 that she 
didnt wish to be given any further loans  and Morses provide a screen shot of the 
notes that were made off the back of this contact.
Morses believes it is appropriate to lend if the payments were affordable and 
sustainable.
The adjudicator put Morses offer to Ms P but this was rejected.
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also upholding Ms Ps 
complaint, but I provide some further details. A copy of the background to the complaint and 
my provisional findings follow this in smaller font and italics and form part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms P could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ps
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms P. These factors include:Ms P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms P.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms P could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms P was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ps complaint.
I wont make a finding about loan one, because Morses has already agreed that something
went wrong when this loan was advanced. For completeness, Ive included what Morses
needs to do to put things right for Ms P in relation to loan one at the end of this decision.
Instead this decision will focus on what happened when loans 2  4 were granted.
Loan 2
When loan two was advanced, Morses took details of her income and expenditure. Based on
what Ms P declared she had a weekly income of £179.65 and expenditure of £112 (this
expenditure figure included the repayment that Ms P had to make to Morses for loan one).
So Morses was aware that Ms P had around £67 a week to afford the repayment towards
this loan of £10. Morses also says that for this loan Ms Ps income was verified with the
credit reference agencies.
Morses couldve believed, that based on the information it gathered Ms P wouldve been in a
position to afford the loan. But the adjudicator thought that further checks needed to have
been concluded before this loan was approved, and had Morses done so it wouldnt have
lent. Ive thought carefully about this and I agree with the adjudicator and Ive explained why
below.
However, I do have some concerns with the information Morses gathered and what it
suggested about Ms Ps situation. Ms Ps income had more than doubled, (but from a very
low base) since loan one (just over two months prior) and her expenditure had almost
doubled. This to me indicates Ms P had a significant change of circumstances.
The adjudicator asked Morses for copies of the application forms for these loans. Theapplications forms were requested in order to see whether there was an explanation for this
increase for example, had Ms P obtained a new or different role. However, Morses told the
Financial Ombudsman that the application data was contained within a spreadsheet it had
already provided.
The spreadsheet information Mores has provided doesnt show or indicate what the
significant change may or may not have been. It just shows the figures that Ms P gave to
Morses and which it relied upon.
Morses also says that Ms Ps income was verified with the credit reference agencies. It later
went on to explain that it would only ask for evidence such as a wage slip if the credit
reference check flagged that the amount being declared wasnt likely to be accurate. In this
case, Morses said the amount Ms P declared was likely correct as there is nothing to
suggest any further verification was sought.
Morses said based on the information it gathered from Ms P it could see that the loan
repayments were affordable.
However, as a percentage of income, Ms P was actually repaying more to Morses for this
loan than she was for loan one. But, while this is the case, it could be argued that this is
offset by the fact Ms P had a larger weekly income, although it could still be argued that her
new income was still modest.
Morses says that a credit search wasnt carried out before this loan was approved, but one
was carried out before loan one was advanced, and given the close proximity I think its
reasonable to see what sort of information was visible to Morses at the time.
Having looked at the credit file, I can see the following;
Ms P had 26 active credit accounts but 9 had a zero balance.
With one of record in default.
Ms Ps total value of active accounts was more than £51,000 made up loans, 
instalment credit, revolving credit and budget accounts.
Ms P seems to have been utilising all of her available credit.
So, given the results of the credit search for loan one, the large, explained increased in
Ms Ps income and outgoings ought to have led Morses to have carried out further checks
before this loan was approved.
Indeed, given the amount of debt that Ms P had there is an argument to say that this ought
to have led Morses to conclude the loan wasnt sustainable.
Had it carried out further checks, I think Morses wouldve concluded that the loan
repayments were unstainable for Ms P. At the time, of loan two, Ms P was still repaying loan
one, and she had two other outstanding home collected loans with other home credit
providers. Her weekly commitment to cover all of these loans (including loan one and two)
was nearly £50 per week, which wasnt an insignificant amount to be solely repaying other
only home credit loans.
Morses seems to have been aware of this as figures have been reported in its spreadsheet
but I disagree with it that it shows the loans were sustainable. I think it shows the opposite,
especially in light of the credit report that was carried out for loan one, which I dont think it
could ignore.In addition, as part of the application process, for loan two, Morses recorded that Ms P had
some repayments towards a credit card but no other credit was being repaid. Which doesnt
seem to fit with the results of the credit search which indicate Ms P had a significant amount
of outstanding debt.
This coupled with the results of the credit search shouldve alerted Morses that while the
loan may have looked affordable, it clearly wasnt going to be sustainable for Ms P given
what Morse recorded as a fairly modest income.
Im upholding Ms Ps complaint about loan two.
Loans 3 and 4
Ms Ps income increased before loan three was approved, and then slightly decreased when
loan four was given. Again, I dont have the application forms so I cant say with any
certainty what was leading to Ms Ps change in income.
Between loan one and loan three Ms Ps income had increased by around 200% and no
further enquires appear to have been undertaken to find out what was happening.
In terms of expenditure, this had increased by over 150% during the same period, again no
explanation as to what was happening or why. Although, what I would add is that a lot of this
increase expenditure appears to be driven by Ms P having to repay other home credit
providers more money each week  which isnt sustainable.
I still think, for the reasons that Ive outlined above that further checks needed to have been
carried out by Morses when these loans were approved, and had it carried out further
checks I think it wouldve likely concluded that these loan repayments werent sustainable
either.
No new credit searches were carried out before these loans, but Ive not been presented
with any evidence that suggests that Ms Ps overall financial position had improved. For
example, Morses hasnt reported significant weekly repayments to other creditors as part of
the income and expenditure assessment which may have indicated that Ms P was reducing
her overall indebtedness.
As Ive said above, there was still large increase in Ms Ps declared income and expenditure
information which Morses, as far as I can see, didnt seek to clarify.
In addition, further checks wouldve highlighted that she had four other home credit loans
outstanding with weekly repayments for the loans with the other home credit providers 
totalling £75 per week. In addition, she had commitments to Morses at loan 3 of £25 and £30 
when loan 4 was approved. This meant, by the final loan Ms P was spending more than 
£100 per week solely making payments to various home credit providers. In my view, this 
isnt sustainable.
She also wouldve likely had significant amounts of other credit (from the report that was
carried out at loan one) and these accounts needed to be serviced. So, like loan two, I think
Morses was wrong to have approved these loans as well.
Credit file
Morses hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with any contact notes so I dont know
what it was or wasnt told about Ms Ps health problems in 2020. But I do know, because a
copy of a letter has been provided what it told Ms P about what it would do about collectingthe outstanding balance. In its letter of 26 June 2020 Morses explained;
I can advise that the balance on the account will not be written off, however we have
flagged the account and noted your account in relation to your circumstances and
health issues. I can also confirm the account will not sell on to any external Debt
Collection Agency.
We will no longer pursue the outstanding debt, but the debt will still show on your
credit file for credit reporting purposes. No further charges are being added.
I think this letter is reasonably clear in letting Ms P know that while there was an outstanding
balance due it will not chase or collect the balance, and neither will it pass the account to a
third party.
It also says that the debt will continue to show on the credit file. I dont have a copy of
Ms Ps credit file so I dont know exactly what information Morses is reporting to the credit
reference agencies. Ms P says a default was applied but I dont know the date of the default.
But given, Ms P had a balance, that wasnt being actively collected, chased or repaid, I dont
think it was unreasonable for Morses to say that it would continue to report this to the credit
reference agencies.
If a default has been reported then this would normally remain on a consumers credit file for
six years after the date it was reported. However, as Im intending to uphold these loans,
Morses have been given a direction below as to what it needs to do in relation to the adverse
information.
In response to the provisional decision either Ms P or Morses may wish to supply information
to show what is currently being recorded in relation to Ms Ps credit file.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Ms P and Morses were asked to provide any further comments, information or 
evidence for consideration no later than 20 April 2022. 
Morses didnt respond to the provisional decision or provide any further information. 
Ms P acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and asked for a copy to be emailed to 
another address. But she hasnt provided anything further for consideration. 
The deadline for responses to the provisional decision has now lapsed, and I see no reason 
to delay the issuing of this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has supplied anything further for my consideration, I see no reasons to 
depart from the findings that were reached in the provisional decision. 
I didnt consider loan one because Morses had already made an offer to resolve it and for 
loans 2  4 Im satisfied that Morses had sufficient information available to it to show that the 
loan repayments were unlikely to be sustainable to Ms P. As I dont think any of the loans shouldve been granted, Ive outlined below what Morses 
needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent to Ms P. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all
hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms P may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses has already accepted that loan 1 shouldnt have been provided and Ive included
what it needed to do (and what it has agreed to do to put things right) in the section below.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms P towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses has already refunded
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms P having 
made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal Morses already written-off or agreed not to collect. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms P. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance then, in line with what Morses agreed in June 2020, it shouldnt pursue Ms P 
any further.
E. Morses, as agreed will remove loan one from Ms Ps credit file and it should remove 
the adverse information recorded on Ms Ps credit file in relation to loans 2  4.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Ps 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms P as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman