DRN-2868156
The complaint
Mr D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) cancelled his car insurance policy.
Mr D was represented in this claim by a family member, who was also a named driver on the 
policy, but for ease, in this decision Ill refer to their actions/comments as those of Mr D.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr D applied for a car insurance policy with Ageas through a price
comparison website.
The Ageas policy was administered by company R. For ease in this decision, where 
company R was acting on behalf of Ageas, I will refer to its actions as those of Ageas.
Shortly after the policy began Ageas cancelled it. After carrying out checks on the 
Claims Underwriting Exchange database (CUE) - the central database used by insurers for 
recording claims information  Ageas identified an undeclared claim from February 2020.
Mr D had previously held car insurance with another provider, company A. In February 2020 
hed contacted company A after his car was damaged when he drove through a flooded 
area. Hed decided not to claim for the damage, later paying for the repairs himself. 
But company A had recorded the incident on CUE. Mr D said he was not aware of this.
Mr D contacted company A about this and raised a complaint. He later provided Ageas with 
a letter showing no money was paid out in relation to the February 2020 incident. But Ageas 
said it would no longer offer cover to Mr D. Company R was then able to arrange Mr D cover 
with other providers, but at a much higher cost.
Mr D didnt think this was fair, so he complained to Ageas noting that he never made a claim. 
But Ageas didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr D then brought his complaint to our service. He said he was unhappy with the 
cancellation of his existing policy by Ageas and the fact this had led to him having to pay 
more for his car insurance policy.
Ageas told our service that had it known about this incident when Mr D first applied for the 
policy, it wouldnt have offered to cover to Mr D which is why the policy was cancelled. It also 
confirmed that its records show Mr Ds policy was cancelled by the insurer (something that 
would need to be declared in future applications), but it said it couldnt comment on the fact 
company R had told him the cancellation didnt need to be declared.
After looking into things our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint against Ageas. 
He thought Mr D had misrepresented his accident history when he took out the policy. 
He said Ageas had treated this misrepresentation as careless (not deliberate/reckless) but, 
because it wouldnt have offered Mr D cover, it was fair for Ageas to cancel the policy. 
He also said it was fair for it to record that it had done so on its systems, but that it should 
ensure the premium Mr D paid for the period after the policy was cancelled was refunded.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different outcome to the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with both parties, so they had the 
opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by clarifying that in this decision I will only be considering the actions and 
decisions that Ageas was ultimately responsible for. I appreciate there are a lot of 
businesses involved in Mr Ds complaint overall, but I think its important to separate out 
what each business did so that I can fairly decide if Ageas has acted reasonably. I will 
consider the actions of the other businesses Mr D is unhappy with, including company A, in 
separate decisions.
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here, which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care, it sets out the remedies available to the insurer. 
These depend on whether there has been a claim. And the standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer took 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application by the insurer were clear and 
specific.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether there was what the 
Act describes as a qualifying misrepresentation and whether this was deliberate or reckless, 
or careless. For any misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, as well as showing the 
consumer failed to take reasonable care, the insurer needs to be able to show it made a 
difference to the terms on which it would offered the policy or that it wouldnt have offered 
the policy at all. Where a misrepresentation was careless, for an insurer to cancel the policy, 
CIDRA says that the insurer must show that but for the misrepresentation/s it would not have 
offered the policy at all. However, if the insurer would have offered the policy at a higher 
premium and there hasnt been a claim under the policy in question, the insurer can carry on 
with the policy and settle any future claims proportionately or cancel it, giving the consumer 
appropriate notice and returning any unused part of the premium.
I note that the use of the word claim here has caused some confusion. Everyone agrees 
that Mr D didnt claim for any losses on his policy in February 2020, but the incident was 
logged on CUE as a closed claim withdrawn. Something company A called a notification 
claim. I know Mr D is unhappy that any form of incident was ever recorded, and he also 
doesnt feel this was explained to him by company A  so he didnt know he needed to 
declare it. So, I can understand why he might feel its unfair that Ageas has said he failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. But concerns about what was 
recorded have been raised with company A separately. In this decision, I am only 
considering the actions of Ageas.
Having carefully considered things, I dont think Ageas was reasonable in concluding there 
was a misrepresentation here  Ill explain why.Mr D applied for his policy through a price comparison website. As part of his application he 
was asked:
Claims
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the past 5 years, no matter who was 
at fault or if a claim was made?
In response to this question, Mr D declared some previous claims, but he did not declare the 
incident in February 2020  which Ageas said meant he failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
Mr D didnt make a claim, but the question here also asks about motor accidents or 
losses. So, Ive considered whether a reasonable consumer would have known to declare 
this flood damage as an accident or loss.
Mr D has said this wasnt an accident. And I can see why a reasonable consumer might not 
have considered the incident an accident given it didnt involve the sort of physical impact to 
his vehicle commonly associated with an accident.
Mr D hasnt commented specifically on the term loss. He has just said he didnt realise the 
flood damage needed to be declared here. Its of relevance Mr D didnt lose his car  the car 
wasnt written off. And Id note the question doesnt define the term loss or assist the 
consumer in understanding what could constitutes a loss. Given this, I dont think this 
question is clear and specific. And Im just not persuaded a reasonable consumer whod 
decided not to claim but had paid to have their vehicle fixed in circumstances like these 
would necessarily see this as a loss. So, I dont think Ageas can fairly say that Mr D ought 
to have declared the February 2020 incident under this question or that he failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he didnt do so.
Given I dont think he failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, Im not 
persuaded Ageas was entitled to take the action it did in cancelling the policy.
Some time has passed since this cancellation took place and so the policy in question would 
no longer be active. Given this, Im not going to ask Ageas to reinstate the policy. To put 
things right I think Ageas should record the policy as cancelled by Mr D, removing the 
insurer cancellation from his records. I also think it should provide Mr D with a letter 
confirming the cancellation wasnt his fault, which he can then provide to other insurers if 
needed to ensure the premiums hes paid on subsequent policies have been fairly 
calculated.
If not already refunded, I also think Ageas should waive any set-up or cancellation fees Mr D 
may have been charged in connection with the policy. I say this noting he barely had use of 
this policy and I dont think the cancellation was fair.
Having listened to the calls, Im also aware Mr D raised concerns over the date of 
cancellation. Ageas gave Mr D advanced warning of the cancellation, with the policy 
scheduled to end cancelled on 19 March 2020. On 10 March 2020 Mr D phoned Ageas 
about this and asked for the policy to be cancelled with immediate effect so he didnt have to 
pay for the extra time on cover. But he was told hed have to wait. In light of this and the 
above mistakes, I think Ageas should also refund Mr D for the nine days of extra premiums 
he had to pay for against his wishes.Finally, taking everything into account, I also think Ageas should pay Mr D £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unfair cancellation of the 
policy.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr D thanked me for my provisional decision and said the outcome would assist him. 
But Mr D continued to raise concerns about the actions of company A. However, as outlined 
above, in this decision I will only be commenting on the actions and decisions of Ageas. 
Ageas didnt agree with the proposed outcome. It didnt think the question it asked was 
unclear or ambiguous. It raised a number of points about this as follows:
We agree there was no claim made, it appears the customer was not awarded 
compensation for the vehicle being written off as a total loss, or for any repairs in 
partial loss
It is clear there was a loss, the misfortune of flood water causing damage to occur to 
the vehicle
The definition of loss within insurance and recognised across the industry is that loss 
is usually the basis of a claim for damages, it isnt the act of losing the car, but also 
the harm, so in this instance the damage caused by the flood water entering it
It seems there may have been the intention to apply for a claim, as a telephone call 
was prompted to the previous insurer
The damage necessitated repairs at the expense of the customer, that we are led to 
believe was out of their personal choice
What we cannot be sure of had the customer chosen differently, had they wanted to 
proceed and submit a claim, how successful a potential claim would have been; we 
were not party to the conversation that occurred between the previous insurer and 
the customer, as such we cannot say if the customer had sufficient cover under their 
previous policy, or if the car was damaged by a loss that they did not cover, so the 
insurer would not have paid
Similarly, we cannot say if the previous insurer perhaps felt the customer could have 
prevented the loss
However, what we do know is that when he was presented with the question, the 
customer did not appear to take reasonable steps to make sure he wasnt making a 
misrepresentation. I say this because, while the customer we understand thought he 
was answering the question honestly regards a claim, its more likely the customer 
didnt read or understand the question properly, and therefore they should have 
checked
We do not agree its of relevance that the customer didnt lose his car, this is not the 
sole definition of loss, certainly not within the insurance industry
While the question doesnt define the term loss, given that the customer and or their 
representative had acted to telephone their previous insurer to discuss the impact of 
the flood, this indicates they were making an enquiry about the loss, so while I agree 
the customer decided not to claim, but instead paid to have their vehicle fixed, I do 
not agree they would not necessarily see this as a loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the comments made by both parties, but Im not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional findings - Ill explain why.Firstly, Id like to be clear that I dont think it matters what might have happened had Mr D 
pursued a claim with his previous insurer, he didnt. And so, I dont think he needed to 
answer the question yes and declare a claim here. 
Its clear Mr D looked into whether he could claim on the policy. But no one is questioning 
that Mr D was aware of the incident and the damage caused. I think the crux of this 
complaint is about whether Mr D understood this to be a loss. I say this because he didnt 
make a claim, no-one is suggesting it was a motor accident, and the question only asked 
about these two things and losses. I dont think calling to find out if something is covered 
under a policy automatically demonstrates that a consumer considers this damage to be a 
loss. To use another example as an illustration, I dont think a reasonable consumer would 
consider a scratch to their paintwork a loss, but they might call their insurer to find out if the 
damage is covered by their policy.
I appreciate that the insurance definition of loss, as outlined by Ageas, covers what 
happened to Mr Ds vehicle  Mr Ds vehicle was damaged and he had to fix this at a cost in 
order to continue using the vehicle (this financial cost is considered a loss by Ageas). 
But CIDRA requires me to consider whether a reasonable consumer, reading this question, 
would understand what happened to Mr Ds vehicle as a loss as per the question asked. 
The term loss is commonly used to refer to situations where something is no longer there. 
And Im not persuaded that a reasonable consumer would think this covered any sort of 
damage or harm to the vehicle that could be claimed for even when it wasnt. This isnt 
explained in the question and it isnt the common understanding of the term. Id also observe 
that if this is what Ageas was seeking to know about then it could have asked about 
damage or harm, but it did not. 
And Im also not persuaded that a reasonable consumer would understand loss to mean any 
sort of damage that costs money to fix. Id note that the question didnt specifically ask about 
financial loss or costs incurred, which may have prompted Mr D to consider the question 
differently. Instead it asked about motor accidents, claims or losses and, as I observed in 
my provisional decision, Mr D didnt lose his motor vehicle. 
So, I dont think Ageas has made clear in this question that it is seeking to know about costs 
incurred connected with damage or harm to the vehicle. 
I dont doubt it was Ageas intention to gather information about this sort of incident when it 
asked the question it did. But, for all of the reasons Ive outlined above, Im of the opinion the 
question asked wasnt sufficiently clear. And taking everything into account, I therefore dont 
think Ageas can fairly say that Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered this no.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Record Mr Ds policy as cancelled by him.
Provide Mr D with a letter confirming the cancellation of his policy was not his fault.
Refund any set-up or cancellations fees Mr D may have paid for the policy, if not 
already refunded.
Refund nine days of premiums.
Pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman