DRN-2146093
The complaint
Ms G complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Card 
(Home Retail), didnt make it clear that interest would be applied to her credit card six-
months after goods were purchased.
What happened
Ms G purchased an item online using her Home Retail credit card. The purchase was made 
on 1 July 2019 and was completed using the Buy Now, Pay Later Plan (the plan) Home 
Retail offered. No interest would be charged if the balance was paid in full within six-months, 
but if it wasnt, deferred interest would be applied from the date of the purchase.
Ms G paid the full balance on 30 January 2020. Home Retail applied interest of £36.63 as 
the payment was made after 16 January, which was the end date of the plan.
Ms G complained to Home Retail they hadnt made the end date of the plan clear to her 
when she took out the agreement, and that she believed that if she paid the full balance 
before the end of January 2020, no interest would be applied.
Home Retail provided a final response and didnt uphold the complaint. They said Ms Gs 
December statement showed the plan end date was 16 January 2020, and as she didnt pay 
the full balance by this date, they charged interest in line with the credit agreement.
Ms G wasnt happy with Home Retails response and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at things for Ms G and thought Home Retail hadnt done anything 
significantly wrong in applying the interest as they had told Ms G of the end date and Ms G 
paid the balance after six-months.
Ms G didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
complaint. She says that when she applied for the plan Home Retail shouldve made it clear 
the end date would be included in statements. Ms G says she hadnt seen the statements 
and that Home Retail should provide evidence they gave her this important information when 
she applied for the plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint, as detailed in Ms Gs complaint form, is that she didnt 
understand when the end date of the plan was, and that Home Retail shouldve made it 
clearer what the end date was. Ms G says she feels she couldve been given this information 
at the start of the agreement. However, from Ms Gs comments, its reasonable for me to 
conclude Ms G knew she made the purchase using the plan and the deferred interest period 
was six-months. The issue here is whether Home Retail took reasonable steps to tell her of 
the specific end date and what would happen if she didnt clear the balance by this date.
Ms G says she didnt see her on-line statements and didnt have access to her on-line 
account. Regardless of whether Ms G saw the statements its her responsibility to manage 
her account. If she couldnt access the statements it wouldve been reasonable for her to 
make Home Retail aware so she could re-establish access. Or, Ms G couldve asked for 
statements to be sent by post.
Ms G has provided a copy of an email Home Retail sent her on 19 December 2019. This 
email made it clear the date the deferred interest period ended was 16 January 2020 and 
advised Ms G to review her statement on-line. So, I am satisfied Ms G received notice the 
statement was available to view, and it isnt the fault of Home Retail she didnt view it and 
missed the important information it contained.
Home Retail hasnt been able to provide a screenshot of the on-line process Ms G followed, 
so I havent seen they highlighted the end date of the plan during this process. However, I 
have seen that on all the on-line credit card statements since the purchase, Home Retail 
included details of the amount of the plan and the specific date it needed to be paid. 
Although Ms G says this information wasnt prominent enough, Im satisfied it was. On the 
December 2019 statement, in the What you need to pay section, Home Retail explained 
You have a Buy Now, Pay Later plan ending soon. Its important you understand what this 
means for you. Please fully read the enclosed letter which details your payment options. 
The Payment plans section, on the next page, clearly and prominently explained the end 
date of the plan was 16 January 2020. There was also a separate letter attached that 
provided details of what the deferred interest would be if she didnt pay by this date.
I think Home Retail couldve made it clearer at the start of the plan when the end date was. 
But I dont think this was as important as keeping Ms G informed during the agreement and 
providing her with a specific reminder the month before the end date of the agreement. I 
think Home Retail did enough to help Ms G understand the end date of the plan, and that 
interest would be applied from the date of the purchase if the balance wasnt paid in full. So, 
I dont think Home Retail did anything significantly wrong here.
My final decision
Your My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Card, to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman