DRN-3824191
The complaint
Ns complaint is about a claim made on their behalf by their agent on an Amtrust Europe 
Limited rent protection insurance policy. The policy was taken out for their benefit to cover 
any losses they might incur.
N is represented by their agent in this complaint, but for ease of reading, I shall refer to all 
representations as having made by N. 
N says Amtrust have acted unfairly when dealing with their claim. 
In this decision, all references to Amtrust include their claims handlers.
What happened
Ns agent took out a rent protection insurance policy for the benefit of N. The policy was 
intended to protect them for loss or rents and assist with legal expenses in certain 
circumstances if Ns tenants stopped paying and werent prepared to leave Ns property.
Policies were taken out for the benefit of N with Amtrust in July 2019 and July 2020 
respectively. In 2019 Ns tenant stopped paying rent. N took legal advice about this, 
including speaking to Amtrusts legal advice line about what to do. They were advised to 
serve a notice on the tenant to leave the property, which they did. They then made a claim 
on their Amtrust policy to cover the rent arrears and the legal costs of evicting the tenant. 
Amtrust declined to pay the rent arrears under the 2019 policy. They said that the policy 
required all notices to be properly served in order to be effective and that the notice N had 
served was defective, so N wasnt entitled to cover. It did however offer N cover under its 
2020 policy but on less favourable terms. In doing so Amtrust offered to cover Ns 
reasonable legal costs of evicting the tenant but not all of the rent arrears they were 
claiming. 
N said the new policy provided cover for six months worth of arears, subject to a £1,250 
monthly rental cap with an excess of two months worth of rent. N has said that Amtrust paid 
it something different to this- the full monthly rent of £1,690, which reflected the terms of the 
2019 policy but up to a limit of 6 months, in accordance with the 2020 policy. N feels this is 
unfair and that Amtrust should pay their claim for rent arrears in accordance with the 2019 
policy which N feels covered 12 months worth of rent.  N also wants Amtrust to reimburse 
the policy premium it paid for the 2020 cover, because they feel this was needless and the 
legal fees incurred on their behalf by Amtrusts panel firm should be covered up to the limit 
applicable in the 2019 policy, which amounts to £100,000. N has also asked for damages for 
the stress caused to them by Amtrusts actions.
Amtrust maintain they arent able to consider Ns claim under the 2019 policy because the 
notice N served on their tenant wasnt valid and it was a requirement of those terms for the 
notice to be valid. They say they received legal advice from their panel firm who said that the 
notice wasnt served by recorded delivery and first-class post in accordance with s196 of the 
Law of Property Act 1925 and therefore needed to be served again. Because of this they 
considered the claim in line with the 2020 policy. Amtrust didnt however apply a cap on the 
monthly rent as contended by N. Rather they made payments of the full rent for at least five 
months worth of arrears. They also funded their panel firms costs of evicting the tenant and 
offered limited costs in helping N enforce possession of its property.  
Our investigator considered Ns complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
that Amtrust were entitled to turn down Ns claim for cover under the 2019 policy because 
the notice N served on its tenant at that time wasnt complaint or effective which was a 
requirement under the policy terms before cover could be afforded to the claim N was 
making. In addition, he said that the circumstances that gave rise to a claim fell within the 
new policy period because this came down to the date on when the notice to the tenant 
expired. The investigator also noted that N was unhappy with the terms the 2020 policy was 
offered to them on but felt he couldnt interfere with this offer because that was a commercial 
decision for Amtrust. 
N didnt agree with the investigators view. Ive summarised some of the points they made 
below:
The loss of rents claim should be considered under the 2019 policy. The payments 
made under the 2020 policy fall about £10,000 short of the payment they would have 
received had Amtrust paid the claim under the earlier policy.
The circumstances that gave rise to the claim fell within the 2019 policy because the 
tenancy ended on the last day of that policy period.
They had no alternative but to accept the 2020 policy on the terms put to them by 
Amtrust so as to mitigate their loss particularly because they would not have been 
able to obtain cover elsewhere as the tenant was already in breach of the tenancy.
The advice they received from Amtrusts legal helpline was that the notice to quit was 
dated to expire in the 2020 policy period. They shouldnt be penalised for this.
The tenant never tested the validity of the notice and if it hadnt been for the 
pandemic and the effect of this on possession proceedings, they would have 
proceeded with the original notice in its current form.
Amtrust waived any alleged breach of the policy in relation to the notice being 
defective by offering to cover the claim in the 2020 policy period.
The term relating to the defective notice only relates to legal expenses and not the 
rent indemnity which is the main part of their claim. There was an element of the 
legal expenses that wasnt covered in relation to an application to transfer the matter 
to the High Court, but the main aspect of this complaint relates to the rent indemnity.
In response the investigator said that a claim doesnt automatically arise under a policy 
because fixed term tenancy ends and that in this case the expiry of the notice is the key date 
when determining which policy applies because the tenancy wouldve continued had the 
notice not been issued. And in any event the notice was defective so couldnt be considered 
in the 2019 policy period so this is the policy that would apply. N dont agree. They say there 
are multiple reasons why the claim falls into the 2019 policy period including the earlier 
failure to pay rent, serving of the notice to quit and the tenant remaining in occupation on the 
last day of the policy period. Because of this, the matter has been passed to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. Both parties have provided me with copies of the ones 
they think apply. Ive checked the position with Amtrust, who ultimately are the insurer for the 
policy, and they have provided me with the correct policy terms that Im satisfied apply. The 
2019 policy says:
SECTION 1  EVICTION
The Insurer agrees to indemnify the Insured against Legal Expenses incurred in evicting the 
Tenant from the Property for a breach by the Tenant of the terms of the Tenancy Agreement.
Provided that:
1. All statutory and contractual notices are compliant, have been effectively served on the 
Tenant, and;
2. Where the eviction is for the non-payment of Rent the Insured must make all reasonable 
efforts to collect the Rent including, if Rent is overdue, the Tenant and any Guarantor being 
contacted within seven days to establish the reason for the arrears. If the Rent is not paid 
within a further seven days the Tenant and any Guarantor must be contacted again. If the 
Tenant cannot be contacted, and it is lawful to do so, the Insured, on behalf of the 
Beneficiary Landlord must serve notice of a requirement to undertake an inspection in 
accordance with the Beneficiary Landlords obligations within the Tenancy Agreement and 
visit the Property. The Insured should seek legal advice if he is unsure that such an 
inspection is lawful.
RENT
Until the Beneficiary Landlord obtains vacant possession of the Property, the Insurer agrees 
to indemnify the Insured against:
1. the Rent the Tenant is due to pay the Beneficiary Landlord under the Tenancy 
Agreement which the Insured has not received, and/or;
2. compensation for the unauthorised possession of the Property by the Tenant after the 
expiry of the Tenancy Agreement (at an amount equivalent to the Rent payable under 
the Tenancy Agreement).
Provided that a claim has been made and accepted by (Amtrust) under Section 1 of this 
Policy to evict the Tenant in respect of the Rent arrears or compensation claimed.
So, although I appreciate that N is more concerned in this complaint about its claim for rent, 
the terms on rent are clear that a claim must be made and accepted for eviction before rent 
arrears can be claimed. And the claim for eviction requires the statutory notice thats served 
on the tenant to be compliant. In this case it wasnt. Amtrusts panel firm provided clear 
advice on this issue and that this meant the claim for eviction didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success, as required by the policy. 
And because the notice served wasnt compliant with the legislation surrounding evictions 
due to the way it was sent, Amtrust werent obliged to cover Ns claim, either for eviction or 
to pay rent arrears. Instead of turning down cover entirely, Amtrust offered N a new policy 
upon expiry of the old one, albeit on less favourable terms. They also agreed to cover the claim under that policy. 
I realise that N feels the terms of the 2019 policy should still have been applied because the 
Insured Incident as defined by the policy took place during that policy period. But the tenant 
stopped paying rent and refused to leave the property a day after the 2019 policy expired. 
That coincides with the date that the defective notice expired. N argues that the date 
specified within the notice was based on advice given by Amtrusts own legal advice line so 
they shouldnt be prejudiced by this. But the time frame noted within the defective notice is 
prescribed in statute, so N wasnt free to enter any date they wanted to, irrespective of the 
notice being invalid because of the method by which it was served. And whether the tenant 
tested the validity of the notice is largely academic. If it ever came to the point that 
proceedings were required, this issue could easily have arisen and undone any claim for 
possession which is why the policy term about validity of notices is a requirement of cover. 
This leads onto my next point; even if Amtrust were wrong to apply the insured incident in 
the way that they did, a claim couldnt have been triggered under either policy until a valid 
notice had been served. And that trigger didnt happen until the 2020 policy period when the 
correctly served notice had expired. 
N is unhappy with the terms on which Amtrust offered the 2020 policy, but as the investigator 
explained, thats not something I can interfere with. Its a matter for Amtrust to decide 
whether theyre prepared to offer cover and if so on terms theyre happy with. At this point 
Amtrust were aware of a claim and agreed to cover N under a new policy. I imagine the 
decision to offer cover on less favourable terms was with this risk in mind. N should note 
however that Amtrust wasnt required to offer cover at all. The fact that they did so, was in 
my view fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In response to Ns complaint about the payments Amtrust has made, Ive noted Ns 
references to the 2020 policy providing cover for six months worth of arears, subject to a 
£1,250 monthly rental cap with an excess of two months worth of rent. But from what I can 
see, Amtrust paid the full rent of £1,690 for at least five months and possibly six. That 
appears to accord with the 2020 policy wording which sets out that rent is payable up to a 
maximum equivalent of six months. I havent seen anything that suggests a rental cap 
applies and the payments Amtrust have made dont support there is one either. So, Im not 
sure why N thought Amtrust would be paying them less than theyve received. Either way, 
the payments made appear to accord with the 2020 policy terms which Ive seen and are 
applicable to Ns claim. 
Finally, I understand N are also unhappy with the extend of legal expenses cover applicable 
to their claim. But for the reasons Ive set out above, the cover available is the one contained 
within the 2020 policy and not the 2019 one. For that reason its reasonable for Amtrust to 
provide cover to the extent that its available under that policy.
In their complaint, N have asked for another organisation and the claims handlers acting for 
Amtrust to report themselves to the Financial Conduct Authority for failing to treat N fairly. N 
should note that this complaint relates to Amtrusts actions and not another party so I cant 
comment on that issue. Its also not within my remit to require a financial business to report 
themselves to their regulator.
I appreciate that N have referred to Amtrusts claims handlers here rather than Amtrust. For 
clarity, I cant consider any complaints about claims handling by the claims handlers alone- 
only the actions of those handlers as if they were Amtrusts, where they were acting on 
behalf of Amtrust in decision making on the claim. And thats what Ive done in this decision 
when I said all references to Amtrust include their claims handlers. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ns claim against Amtrust Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman