DRN-2773649
The complaint
Miss M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) gave her misleading information 
regarding the timescales required to open an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and 
incorrectly calculated the interest due on a maturing ISA, she held with them.
What happened
Miss M says she approached Barclays to set up a new ISA as she had been informed by 
them her existing ISA was due to mature. Miss M says in mid-June 2020 she visited 
Barclays to arrange the opening of the new ISA given she had around seven days before her 
existing ISA matured and wished to transfer additional monies in from another bank. At the 
same time Miss M says she wanted to check the amount of interest she had earnt on her 
maturing ISA. Miss M says the interest was calculated incorrectly by Barclays and so she 
complained - the member of staff lodged her complaint and suggested she should wait to 
open the new ISA and deal with the transfer from her other bank, until the complaint had 
been resolved. Miss M says didnt hear anything about her complaint and as the old ISA 
maturity date was getting closer, she questioned this with Barclays, who then told her the 
complaint could take up to eight weeks to be resolved. Miss M says after a number of 
telephone  calls and one lengthy branch visit, the new ISA was eventually opened, but 
several days later than she was told it would.  
Miss M says Barclays miscalculation of her interest on her maturing ISA wasnt fully 
explained to her and while they have paid her what she believes is the amount she should 
have received; the lack of a full explanation is unacceptable. Miss M says Barclays have 
covered the cost of parking fees incurred of £25, a small interest adjustment for the interest 
she lost due to the delays and £140 for the inconvenience caused to her. Miss M feels this 
doesnt go far enough to cover the stress and trouble she went through, given the potential 
risks she faced at her age, during the Covid pandemic.
Barclays have accepted Miss M was given misleading information by a staff member around 
the timescales for the ISA transfer and its complaints process. While it feels they have 
actioned the opening of the ISA within the permitted 15 day stated guidelines, they have 
made an interest adjustment to ensure Miss M didnt lose out. Barclays says they believe the 
interest calculation on her maturing ISA was correct, but as a gesture of goodwill have paid 
her the amount, she felt she was due. Barclays says in addition they have paid Miss M £140 
for the poor service provided, and the confusion created by the member of staff, and feel this 
is a fair and reasonable amount.
 
Miss M is unhappy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
She says while she recognised the stress Miss M has gone through, especially in light of the 
backdrop of Covid, she felt Barclays fairly compensated her for that. The investigator says 
while the information Miss M received from Barclays wasnt clear, they had transferred the 
funds over from her other provider within the timescales set within the government 
guidelines. The investigator provided Miss M with an interest breakdown from Barclays to 
help her identify the amount calculated. The investigator felt Miss M hadnt suffered any 
financial loss and Barclays offer was fair in the circumstances.
 
Miss M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting and frustrating for Miss M to have given sufficient time 
to organise the transfer of the monies to Barclays, only to see the maturity deadline couldnt 
be met. I can also understand that Miss M was concerned Barclays had miscalculated the 
interest on her maturing ISA even though it was clear to her, what interest she would earn, 
when she opened it two years earlier. 
Miss M has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events here 
and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point she has made as I 
dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to 
say I havent considered everything shes said and sent us  I have. But its just that I dont 
need to comment on each individual point here in order to reach a decision on whats fair 
and reasonable.
As our investigator has explained, its not the role of this service to scrutinise Barclays 
complaints process or to tell Barclays how it should deal with complaints more widely. I know 
Miss M is unhappy with that  but my role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of a complaint. And so, Ill be looking at Miss Ms complaint about 
her ISAs and the service she was provided around this.  
When looking at the first part of Miss Ms complaint surrounding the transfer of monies from 
another provider to the maturing ISA with Barclays, its fair to say Barclays have accepted 
they didnt provide Miss M with the level of service they would expect. From the information I 
have seen, their member of staff has caused Miss M inconvenience when not being clearer 
to her about the timings and or the process involved when transferring ISA monies. When 
Miss M lodged her complaint about the mis-calculation of the interest on her maturing ISA, I 
think its fair to say at this point, Barclays should have separated this issue from the ISA 
account opening and transfer - knowing the deadlines Miss M was working to. These actions 
resulted in Miss M having to go out of her way to ensure matters were being dealt with and 
its unfortunate this coincided with the backdrop of the Covid pandemic, which will have 
added to the issues Miss M faced here. When coming to my decision, I have taken this into 
account as customers and businesses alike have been affected by this unprecedented 
event. Both have needed to make difficult choices as to what actions and decisions they 
need to make and so, to be fair to both sides, I have to consider the circumstances here in 
the context of these unusual circumstances.
Miss M decided to travel to the branch during a pandemic and I can, to some extent, see 
why she may have felt the need to deal with the situation in this way. But that was ultimately 
her choice. Barclays didnt tell her she had to do this. 
But whichever way I look at this - Miss M  suffered avoidable inconvenience by having to 
deal with this, which could have been avoided had Barclays dealt with this differently. 
Barclays have accepted this though - and paid her £140 for the impact this had. While its not as much as Miss M would like, Im satisfied this takes into account the trouble Miss M 
had to go through during these difficult times. While Miss M doesnt feel this is sufficient, my 
role isnt to penalise banks like Barclays when mistakes are made but to reach my own  
impartial decision on whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the case. 
So, Ive thought about whether Miss M has been financially disadvantaged as a result of 
what happened here, but I dont think she has, now that Barclays has tried to put things right. 
I say this because Miss M was also paid £25 for the extra parking costs she incurred, during 
one lengthy visit to the branch, and Barclays also paid a small sum of interest to reflect the 
few extra days it took to get the monies transferred from her other bank to her new ISA, 
despite this meeting with the timescales set by government guidelines. 
The overall compensation paid by Barclays, isnt so much about procedural errors, but more 
to do with the poor service and advice it provided to Miss M when she contacted Barclays 
before her ISA matured. As far as the miscalculation of interest on Miss Ms maturing ISA is 
concerned, its fair to say there has been some confusion over this. I say this as while Miss 
M believes she is entitled to the extra £20 or so based on her calculations, what hasnt been 
taken into account are the monies received into her ISA back in 2018  which were paid in 
two tranches on different days. So, the full balance on which Miss M has based her 
calculations, didnt attract interest for the full two years.
In addition, Barclays breakdown of the interest calculation provided to this service and 
shared with Miss M, doesnt appear to take into account the compounding of interest and 
this would go some way to explain the difference in the calculations that both parties have 
come to. What is important to say is Barclays, while not accepting they have miscalculated 
the interest, have paid Miss M what she believes she should have earned, so in any event 
here, I couldnt expect any more of Barclays here, where theyve paid Miss M what she 
believed shes missing anyway.
It follows I am satisfied the compensation paid by Barclays and the other adjustments for 
interests and costs, are fair. So, while Miss M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont 
be asking anymore of Barclays here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman