DRN-4152132
The complaint
Mr M and Mr M complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited [RSA] has 
handled a claim theyve made on their buildings insurance policy following damage to their 
driveway caused by faulty drains. 
What happened
Mr M has led the complaint with this Service so Ill refer to him mainly throughout. 
References I make to Mr Ms actions include those of Mr M, the other policy holder.
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint relates to the 
actions of its agent for which it has accepted responsibility. Any reference to RSA includes 
the actions of its agent.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr M discovered damage to his driveway, thought to be caused by movement, 
around the summer of 2021. He made a claim for subsidence to RSA and it 
appointed an agent to investigate and validate the claim. Various site investigations 
were undertaken including drain surveys and attempts were made to clear silted up 
pipes with a high-pressure water jet but these were unsuccessful. RSA said the 
circumstances of the site made investigation difficult and further extensive 
excavations would be required.
Mr M complained to RSA in January 2022 about the lack of progress and it issued a 
final response in March 2022. The issues covered by this final response were raised 
with this Service too late for us to consider.
Investigations continued over the following months through the summer of 2022 but 
were also inconclusive and RSA still didnt provide an answer on the claim. During 
the investigations, a lamp post near the excavations was removed and, as RSA didnt 
have anyone available to do it, it asked Mr M to arrange and pay for this himself. 
RSA continued investigations and obtained a witness statement from Mr M in 
September 2022. Following this Mr M said hed been chasing RSAs agent for 
progress but was told the claim was with RSA for review.
Mr M eventually raised a complaint with this Service in November 2022 about the 
lack of an outcome on the claim and RSAs delays and poor claim handling. Our 
Investigator considered the evidence, highlighting she had asked RSA for information 
about the apparent delays and lack of claim decision but it had failed to provide this.
In the absence of this information, she upheld the complaint and said RSA should 
pay Mr M £500 for the impact of the delays and reimburse him with the £120 hes 
paid for the removal of the lamppost. And she told RSA it needed to provide Mr M 
with clear next steps on the claim. 
Mr M accepted the findings. RSA responded to say it didnt think it had been given 
time to review the complaint so our Investigator provided it with copies of all the 
relevant correspondence to show it had. RSA didnt confirm acceptance of the 
findings so the case has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As detailed above, in this decision Ive only considered what happened after the 
March 2022 final response as matters before this were raised too late for us to 
consider. 
Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Code of Business (ICOBS) RSA 
is under an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide reasonable 
guidance and appropriate information on the progress of the claim. Ill be keeping 
these principles in mind while considering this complaint together with what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
Claim delays
Having carefully considered the file its clear various agents and RSA internal 
departments have been involved in this claim. It seems theres confusion between 
RSA and its agents about who dealt with the claim and responded to the complaint. 
This confusion has also extended to the provision of information to this Service. 
Seemingly, this has contributed to the delays Ive detailed below.
Despite our Investigator asking for it, RSA has provided no clear timeline or 
explanation about why there were delays following the March 2022 final response. 
From March 2022 through to September 2022 it seems the claim validation process 
continued with RSA requesting documentation from Mr M and discussions with its 
agent on aspects of the claim and whether it was going to be declined.
In September 2022, RSA obtained a witness statement from Mr M. After this, its not 
clear from the evidence Ive been given to consider, what was happening on the 
claim. Mr M says hes been chasing RSA for progress and an outcome since 
December 2022 and hes just been told RSA was reviewing the claim. This seems to 
be supported by internal correspondence which shows RSAs agents chasing RSA 
for updates after the claim had been with it for review for an extended period of time.
For the reasons Ive explained, I cant see why the claim has taken as long as it has 
or why RSA hasnt kept Mr M sufficiently up to date with progress or provided him 
with an outcome on the claim. It follows, Im not satisfied RSA has complied with its 
obligations under ICOBS and Ill be keeping this in mind when considering my award.
The lamp post
I can see RSA said the lamp post had to be removed due to health and safety 
concerns but it didnt have any contractors available to undertake the work so Mr M 
instructed a contractor of his own and paid the invoice. RSA should reimburse Mr M 
for this cost together with interest, in line with my direction below.
The impact of the delays While Im not considering the entire life of the claim for the reasons Ive already 
detailed above, I do have to keep in mind it was originally made to RSA more than 
two years ago, in November 2021, and Mr M still doesnt have an answer on whether 
RSA has agreed to settle it or not. I understand why the continued lack of progress 
would be a source of considerable frustration for him, particularly given he estimates 
he has made more than 100 calls to RSA in an attempt to get the claim progressed.
Ive thought about all this very carefully and have decided that RSA should pay Mr M 
£500 for the impact of its delays and poor claims handling over the time period under 
review here.
Moving forward
Understandably, Mr M says he just wants the claim settled and the work done and I 
understand how any continued delays will add to his distress and inconvenience. Ill 
remind RSA of its obligations under ICOBS to progress the claim promptly and fairly 
and to provide Mr M with appropriate information about the progress of the claim, and 
that would include what the next steps are. I consider this particularly important in 
light of RSAs failure to do this so far. Its simply not fair to keep Mr M waiting longer 
than necessary or to fail to keep him informed of progress while the claim is still not 
settled. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr M and Mr M £500 for the impact of its delays and poor claim handling.
Reimburse Mr M and Mr M £120 for the work they had undertaken in removing the 
lamp post, subject to the provision of supporting evidence showing the paid invoice, if 
it hasnt done so already. Together with interest at 8% simple per annum* from the 
date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr M and Mr M accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation 
from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M and Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M and 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman