DRN-3973761
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Carrot Risk Technologies Ltd (Carrot) unfairly cancelled her motor 
insurance policy and applied a fee.
What happened
On 28 April 2022, Miss Z took out a motor insurance policy and Carrot (the broker of the 
policy) sent her a welcome pack. This pack included a request to provide photographs of 
both sides of her driving licence and a PDF of the counterpart licence. However, as no 
documents were received despite three reminder emails being sent, the policy was 
cancelled on 7 June 2022 and a £50 cancellation fee applied.
Miss Z then complained and said the requested documents were uploaded on 23 May 2022, 
so she hadnt been treated fairly. Carrot didnt agree and said while Miss Z had accessed the 
online chat function on this date and enquired about adding documents, none were actually 
uploaded. It was for this reason they sent her a final request for the documents on               
31 May 2022 and cancelled the policy after the deadline expired.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint. As part of his investigation, he 
asked Carrot if they would consider changing the cancellation record, so it showed Miss Z 
cancelled the policy instead of the insurer. In response, Carrot explained they'd liaised with 
the insurer, and they were prepared to make the change as a gesture of goodwill. The 
investigator then issued an opinion to let Miss Z know what had been agreed and said the 
complaint had been upheld.
Miss Z didnt respond to the opinion, however, Carrot did. They said it wasnt fair the 
complaint had been upheld as while the insurer had agreed to change the cancellation 
record as a gesture of goodwill, Carrot hadnt done anything wrong by following their 
procedures and cancelling the policy.
On 15 February 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt intend on 
upholding this complaint. Heres what I said:
Ive reviewed the welcome pack and Im satisfied this clearly explained Miss Z needed to 
provide photographs of both sides of her driving licence and a PDF of the counterpart 
licence, as part of the policy verification process. I dont find this to be unusual or surprising 
as many insurers and brokers verify policy information in this way. 
Im also satisfied Carrot gave Miss Z a fair opportunity to provide the requested documents 
as they sent her a reminder email on 14 May 2022 and two further emails, warning the policy 
would be cancelled if they didnt receive the requested information within seven days. These 
emails were dated 23 May 2022 and 31 May 2022. The policy terms and conditions also 
explain  We or Your Broker may cancel the insurance by sending 7days notice of 
cancellation to the email address held on file by Us or Your Broker, or Your last known 
postal address. So, Im satisfied this term was fairly complied with here.
Miss Z has explained she uploaded the verification documents on 23 May 2022 using 
Carrots online chat function. Ive therefore carefully considered the transcript of this 
conversation and can see Miss Z did enquire about uploading documents. However, the 
conversation ended after Miss Z was asked to click on the paperclip icon to start the 
process. There are no messages which suggest Miss Z was experiencing difficulties and 
needed help, or that any documents had been uploaded. So, I dont think its likely the 
documents were successfully provided as part of this conversation.
In any event, as mentioned above, Carrot sent Miss Z a final cancellation notice on             
31 May 2022. This explained the verification documents hadnt been received and the policy 
would be cancelled on 7 June 2022 if they werent provided. I can see Miss Z started an 
online conversation on this date and selected cancellation as the topic. So, I think it's likely 
she received the cancellation notice and was aware further action was needed. Due to the 
time of day, she received an automated response, asking her to start a new conversation 
during opening hours. I would therefore have reasonably expected her to have made a 
further attempt to discuss the policy and provide the documents before the deadline. As she 
didnt do so, I see no grounds for concluding Carrot acted unfairly by cancelling the policy 
and applying a £50 cancellation fee.
As mentioned above, since issuing the final response Carrot have liaised with the insurer of 
the policy and they've agreed to update the cancellation record, so it shows the policy was 
cancelled by Miss Z. Im satisfied this positive action was taken as a gesture of goodwill and 
it doesnt mean the complaint should be upheld.  
Overall, I think Carrot acted reasonably by cancelling the policy as they didnt receive the 
requested verification documents. This is despite sending Miss Z several clear requests and 
allowing her extra time to do so.
Miss Z responded to the provisional decision and explained that she didnt contact Carrot 
before the policy was cancelled as their opening hours didnt allow for this. She also 
apologised for not responding to the investigators opinion and said she would like to accept 
the offer to change the cancellation record as she thought this was fair.
Carrot confirmed the change to the cancellation record had already taken place and 
accepted my conclusion that they hadnt done anything wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it. 
I appreciate Miss Zs work commitments meant she struggled to contact Carrot during their 
opening hours, but I dont think this means she was treated unfairly. As mentioned above, 
the cancellation record has already been changed, so I dont require Carrot to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman