DRN-3148374
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P re-mortgages two buy-to-let properties to The Mortgage Works (TMW) in 
2020. The mortgages were to be paid by direct debit, but problems were encountered with 
the early payments and manual payments had to be made. TMW has told Mr P and Mrs P 
that the problem was because the direct debit mandate (DDM) had been cancelled by them 
However, they didnt do so and their account holding bank has told them it was cancelled by 
TMW. 
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy about the effect this has had on their credit files. They have 
explained this prevented a property purchase and a re-mortgage to release equity. Both 
events have caused them to suffer losses, which they believe to be in the region of £50,000.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs Ps mortgages were opened in the summer of 2020. The first account, which I 
will refer to as 7164, was due to have the first contractual monthly payment (CMP) made on 
25 July 2020 by direct debit. When TMW set up the mortgage, it had created a DDM and it 
called for the payment in advance of the first payment date, so that it was received on time. 
However, the payment wasnt made and the message the banking system gave TMW was 
that the payer (Mr P and Mrs P) had cancelled the DDM. 
TMW wrote to Mr P and Mrs P to tell them their payment hadnt been made. Mr P 
telephoned TMW at the beginning of August to make the missed payment. Around the same 
time, a new DDM was set up for future payments, and TMW cancelled the old DDM (as is 
normal in such situations). Mr P and Mrs Ps current account-holding bank has confirmed its 
records show the first DDM having been cancelled on 5 August 2020 by TMW. The new 
DDM collected the CMP thereafter. 
Unfortunately, because Mr P and Mrs P didnt make the July payment within the calendar 
month, their account would have automatically showed it as a missed payment at the end of 
that calendar month. This appears then to have been reported to credit reference agencies 
and the record of a missed payment remained on their credit files for a period. It had been 
removed by March 2021, but it is not clear when it was removed. 
The CMP for the second new mortgage account, which Ill refer to as 7030, was due on 
14 August 2020. Again, TMW had set up a DDM to collect it and asked for the payment, but 
was told by the banking system that the DDM had been cancelled by the payer. It wrote to 
Mr P and Mrs P and they made the payment manually. A new DDM was set up and that 
collected the CMP due from September 2020. The current account holding bank confirmed 
its records show the DDM was cancelled 25 August 2020, which again coincides with TMW 
setting up the new DDM.
In September 2020 Mr P was concerned that the CMP for the two payments werent showing 
as having been debited from his account. He telephoned TMW and made manual payments 
to ensure the accounts didnt show missed payments. The manual payments were 
subsequently refunded, but it took longer than TWMs service standard. 
Around the same time Mr P and Mrs P were looking to re-mortgage an existing property they 
owned to release equity and also to purchase another property for their rental portfolio. They 
have evidenced that they applied for three mortgages overall for these purposes, but they 
were declined for all of them. It appears that two of the declines are likely to have been 
because of the missed mortgage payment recorded on their credit files. 
Mr P and Mrs P complained to both TMW and the current account holding bank. TMW 
responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It reiterated that it was told, via the 
banking system, that the DDM had been cancelled by Mr P and Mrs P. As such it was not 
responsible for the payments not being collected. It also commented that if their credit files 
had been affected by the payments not being made on time, that was not due to an error on 
its part. 
Mr P and Mrs P didnt accept what TWM had to say. TMW responded again with further 
information, but it didnt change its conclusion about the complaint. It reiterated what had 
happened with the payments. It also said that the payment due on 7164 had the potential to 
be recorded on their credit files as late, as it had been received in the calendar month after it 
should have been. However, TMW had checked the information on a credit reference 
agency it had access to and there wasnt a late payment marker recorded. TMW said that it 
couldnt check the other two commonly used agencies, but their records shouldnt be any 
different from those of the agency that had been checked. 
TMW also addressed a further complaint point about the subsequent payments on both 
accounts.  In relation to account ending 7164 it confirmed that it had written to Mr P and 
Mrs P in August 2020 to tell them that the new direct debit would be collected on the 28th of 
each month starting in August 2020. It wrote to them about account ending 7030 at the end 
of August to again confirm the payments would be collected on the 28th of each month, and 
that the first payment would be collected in September. TMW said that it didnt understand 
why the payments were showing as having left their bank account on the 30th of each month, 
and that they might want to speak to the paying bank. It confirmed that the payments were 
received correctly, and that as Mr P also made a manual payment on 29 September 2020, 
that payment had to be refunded. TMW apologised for the refund not having been made 
within its ten-day service standard and offered to pay interest for the period of delay. In 
addition, TMW offered Mr P and Mrs P £125 for the delay in the refund and its failure to 
address all their complaint points in its earlier complaint response.
Mr P and Mrs P werent satisfied with the responses they got from TMW and asked us to 
look into their complaint. One of our investigators did so and she upheld the complaint. She 
acknowledged that TMWs evidence showed that the DDM was cancelled by the payer. 
However, having examined the DDMs that were input by TMW, she noticed that neither 
contained a payment date. She explained that when its clear there was an issue, because 
the DDMs failed and new DDM had to be set up. A payment date was recorded for the new 
DDMs and payments were collected under them, which would imply there was likely a 
problem with the original DDM details being entered at TMWs end. In addition, the 
investigator considered that it was unlikely that Mr P or Mrs P would have cancelled the 
DDM before payments left the account. 
Furthermore, the investigator concluded that it would have been likely that the mortgage 
applications that had been declined because of the missed payment marker would have 
succeeded. However, the property purchase that was to be made was for an investment 
property and the investigator thought that there was no way to know if that purchase would 
have completed. So she couldnt conclude that a financial loss had been made, but she did 
think the whole issue would have caused inconvenience and so concluded TMW should pay 
Mr P and Mrs P £600 compensation. Mr P and Mrs P accepted the investigators decision to uphold their complaint, but werent 
happy that she didnt make an award for the financial loss they believed they had suffered. 
Our investigator responded by explaining how we assess financial loss and why she had 
concluded there was none in their case. 
TMW didnt accept the investigators view. It provided further evidence of the DDM for 
account ending in 7164 and disputed that it hadnt been set up properly  it showed on the 
system with a first payment date of 25 July 2020. TMW asked the investigator to reconsider 
her stance on the case. Our investigator considered what TMW said, but she wasnt 
persuaded to change her view of the complaint. 
TMW remained satisfied it had done nothing wrong. It had set up the DDMs on the banking 
system correctly and had called for them when it should have  its request was rejected and 
it was told this was because the DDM had been cancelled by Mr P and/or Mrs P. TMW 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman if the investigator remained 
committed to her view of the complaint. 
As the investigator didnt change her opinion, the complaint has been referred to me for 
consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 October 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would firstly like to confirm that this decision will only deal with TMWs part in this situation. 
I wont be commenting on the other bank involved and nor should my conclusions in this 
case be taken to imply anything about the actions of Mr P and Mrs Ps current 
account-holding bank.
TMW has evidenced at the times it tried to collect the initial CMPs under the DDMs it had set 
up, both payments were declined. Both were declined under the coding used for where a 
DDM was cancelled by the payer, i.e. Mr P and Mrs P. In the circumstances, it would be 
normal practice for a lender to write to the borrowers and ask them to make the payment in 
another way and to set up new arrangements for the payments going forward. Thats what 
TMW did and it resulted in Mr P making manual payments to both accounts and setting up 
new DDMs, which worked.
The evidence that is available in this case doesnt indicate that TMW did anything wrong 
when it set up the DDMs or when it called for the payments under them. Both of the original 
DDMs are showing on the current account-holding banks records as existing. That bank 
also confirmed when the DDMs were recorded as cancelled by TMW, and this was after the 
CMPs were missed. For clarity, it would be normal for a lender to cancel any and all DDMs 
showing on an account when a new DDM was set up, even if it thought it had already been 
cancelled at the other end of the process. This is simply to ensure that no errors can be 
made going forward in case its understanding that an old DDM had been cancelled was 
wrong. 
In the case of Mr P and Mrs Ps mortgage, payments must be received within the calendar 
month they are due, or they will be recorded as missed payments. So when TMW initially 
recorded the July 2020 payment to account 7164 as missed, it was correct to do so, as it 
wasnt paid until August 2020. Lenders and other creditors who provide information to credit 
reference agencies are required to report correct information. Most lenders will provide such 
updates at the end or beginning of a month. As the missed payment wasnt paid until a few 
days into August, this is why the missed payment was showing on Mr Ps credit report. This 
was accurate at the time and I cant find TMW was mistaken in reporting the payment had 
been missed.It would appear that following the payment of the missed CMP TMW removed the missed 
payment marker, presumably because the payment was made quite quickly. I cant say 
when this would have been updated on the credit agencies records, but this process can 
sometimes take up to six weeks to complete.  Which may well be why the payment was still 
showing as missed on the credit report Mr P showed us from September 2020. 
All of this said, as I cant find that TWM did anything wrong in reporting the missed payment 
to Mr Ps (and presumably Mrs Ps) credit file, I cant find it responsible for any consequential 
losses that may have occurred.
As for the delay in the refund of the manual payments for September 2020 Mr P made to the 
accounts, TMW has already acknowledged this wasnt done when it should have been. It 
has offered interest on that refund for the period of delay, which is what we would expect it to 
do in the circumstances. In addition, TMW offered Mr P and Mrs P £125 for the poor service 
they received once they raised concerns about what had happened. I also consider this sum 
is reasonable in the circumstances. If Mr P and Mrs P want to accept these sums, they 
should contact TMW directly.
Both parties acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. Mr P and Mrs P confirmed 
they werent happy with my conclusions. They said that they were the victim of irregular and 
irresponsible actions by TMW and repeated that there had been enough money in their 
account to make the payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new comment or evidence, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions. However, I would say to Mr P and Mrs P, that I havent questioned 
whether there were sufficient funds in their bank account to make the mortgage payments. 
Rather I have concluded that the evidence doesnt show that TMW made an error that 
resulted in the payments not being made on time. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman