The complaint
Ms D complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard assured her it wouldnt 
transfer her account to a third party debt collector but then did so.
Ms D is represented in this complaint by her partner but, for ease, Ill refer to Ms D 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
Ms D had a credit card account with Barclaycard. She contacted Barclaycard in 2015 to let it 
know she had financial difficulties. Barclaycard offered regular support over the next two 
years by stopping or refunding interest payments and charges when Ms D said she was 
struggling to make payments. In July 2017 Ms D called Barclaycard and agreed an 
arrangement to pay £5 per month for 12 months. In the same call, Barclaycard told Ms D her 
account wouldnt be sold to a third party. Monthly payments continued until April 2019 but 
then stopped. Barclaycard sold the account to a third party debt collector in July 2019.
Ms D complained to Barclaycard that it had gone back on its assurance not to sell the 
account to a debt collector. Barclaycard said the transfer to a third party was in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. It recognised it had previously assured Ms D 
the account wouldnt be transferred but said that information was correct at the time and it 
had sent correspondence to Ms D confirming it was able to transfer her account to another 
company. It said it had credited her account with £100 as a gesture of goodwill to recognise 
the inconvenience it had caused. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclaycard had acted unreasonably in transferring the debt as it 
had done so in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. And it had also 
notified Ms D of the possibility of transferring the debt to a third party. Although Barclaycard 
had promised not to sell the debt in July 2017, our investigator thought that was only meant 
to apply to the 12 months of the arrangement which was agreed on the same day.
Ms D doesnt agree and asked for her complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. She thinks Barclaycard shouldnt have gone back on its promise not to transfer the 
debt and thinks it should either recall the debt or write it off. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
DRN-1915799The terms and conditions of Ms Ds account set out what happens if the card holder doesnt 
make a minimum payment. They say that, in those circumstances, Barclaycard may sell the 
debt on to another organisation. Barclaycard also sent Ms D a letter in July 2017 to confirm 
the payment plan set up on the same day. The letter says it may transfer the debt to a third 
party if Ms D stopped making the regular monthly payments. Other correspondence sent 
before then said the same thing. So, its clear to me that Barclaycard is able to transfer 
accounts to third parties if minimum payments are missed and that it told Ms D of that 
possibility before and after the call in July 2017. 
But its also clear Barclaycard gave Ms D assurances in July 2017 that her account wouldnt 
be transferred. Barclaycard accept that. It might be the call handler only intended that to 
mean for the duration of the payment plan put in place on the same day. But, if that was the 
case, I would have expected Barclaycard to have made that clear. Ive not been able to 
listen to the call but the evidence Ive seen would indicate the call handler got it wrong. They 
should either have told Ms D her account might be transferred if she missed the minimum 
payment. Or made it clear that wouldnt happen for the duration of the payment plan only.
The impact of that mistake was that Ms D believed her account wouldnt be sold. And she 
was therefore anxious, distressed and disappointed when it was sold. I think its right that 
Barclaycard recognise that impact and provide compensation for the distress and anxiety 
caused. But I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Barclaycard to write off the debt or to 
recall it. Let me explain why.
Where a business has not acted fairly, we look at compensation to put the consumer in the 
position they should have been in had the mistake or poor service not happened. Either by 
compensating financial loss and/or providing compensation for any trouble and upset 
caused. In this situation, had Barclaycard got things right, it would have made it clear to 
Ms D there was a possibility her account would be transferred if she missed her minimum 
payments. So, it's likely the outcome would have been the same (her account would have 
been transferred) but she would have been more prepared for it.
In light of the above, I think it was right that Barclaycard apologised for the service it 
provided and for the inconvenience it caused. And taking everything into account, I think 
£100 compensation is fair. I know Ms D feels it doesnt fully reflect the impact on her and I 
agree with her that the service could have been better. But I think the amount Barclaycard 
has paid her is fair in the circumstances and I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard has already paid £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this amount is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman