DRN-2525627
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs I complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage.
I can see from their complaint form and their PPI questionnaire that Mr and Mrs I have 
provided us with information about their circumstances over several years. From the 
documentation before me, I can only see that PPI was sold in 1989 and then again in 1995.
Nationwide is ultimately responsible for answering Mr and Mrs Is complaint. However, I am 
aware that when PPI was sold in 1989 and 1995, Nationwide was trading as Nationwide
Anglia Building Society and Dunfermline Building Society respectively. 
What happened
 The background to this case is complex and so I set it out in some detail below.
Mr and Mrs I were sold regular premium policies. That means they paid for the policies by 
way of a monthly premium. The cover did not attract interest and it could have been 
cancelled at any time.
PPI was set up to cover both Mr and Mrs I. So if either of them was off sick from work or if 
they lost their jobs, 50% of their mortgage payments would have been covered 
respectively. When Mr and Mrs I complained to Nationwide about the sale, it agreed that 
PPI had been mis-sold in respect of Mrs I and it agreed to refund half of the premiums. I 
am not aware of the basis upon which Nationwide upheld the complaint for Mrs I.
Mr and Mrs I did not agree with that outcome and they brought their complaint to this 
service. At that stage, the complaint had been dealt with by Nationwide on the basis that 
the policies had been sold in 1991 and 1995 respectively. However, upon further 
consideration of the complaint, Nationwide discovered that although PPI had been 
amended in 1991, the first policy had actually been sold in 1989. I understand it made a 
further refund to reimburse Mr and Mrs I for Mrs Is premiums between 1989 and 1991.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld and the matter was passed to 
me to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision in which I said I was minded to 
uphold the complaint in respect of the 1995 sale only. I didnt provisionally find the 1989 
policy had been mis-sold. 
In respect of the 1989 policy, I said: 
As set out above, the PPI has already been refunded in respect of Mrs I. So I have set 
out what we know about Mr Is employment and health matters below. I have also 
considered the joint circumstances of both Mr and Mrs I where necessary.
There is very little documentary evidence available from the time of this sale. Thats not 
surprising given how long ago it was sold. I wouldnt expect either party to keep 
documentation for over 30 years. Similarly, it has not been easy for Mr and Mrs I to recall 
precisely their circumstances from such a long time ago.
As there are gaps in recollection and documentation, when making my decision, I must 
therefore apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, I must decide what is most 
likely to have happened based upon the evidence before me.
From the information provided to me, I can see that when PPI was sold in 1989, Mr I had 
been with his employer at that time for around a year. He was entitled to 26 weeks full sick 
pay and 26 weeks half pay. Both Mr and Mrs I held some shares and cash savings, 
although Mr I cannot recall how much. Mrs I was employed full-time and had been 
promoted shortly before the mortgage was taken out. She had received a pay rise at that 
time. They were both covered by life insurance.
At some point in 1989 and in addition to his full-time employment, Mr I undertook a part-
time teaching role. This was a flexible role in which he worked for one afternoon and 
evening each week. He also taught on residential courses that took place on a weekend for 
a couple of 
times each academic term. Mr I also marked exam papers and covered for colleagues sick 
leave. Mr I expanded his work in this regard to a second university in around 1990.
Crucially, although quite understandably, Mr I is unable to tell us precisely when he started 
working for the first university in 1989. From the information available to me, I cant say that 
Mr I was working in this role when the PPI cover was sold in March that year.
Mr I also had some pet allergies for which he was treated with inhalers. Mr I told us initially 
that he obtained the inhalers on repeat prescription and that he had not needed to see the
doctor in the 12 months before the cover was sold. He said he no longer needed the 
inhalers when he no longer had pets. He was clear that he had not taken time off work in 
respect of this medical condition. However, in response to our adjudicators view, he said 
that his condition had progressed to him requiring hospital treatment and that his condition 
was exacerbated by colds and anything affecting his chest.
Turning now to the issue of whether PPI was mis-sold in 1989, the first thing Ive 
considered is whether Nationwide would have made clear that the cover was optional. I 
can see from the PPI questionnaire that Mr and Mrs I told us they believed Nationwide had 
engaged in high pressure selling and told them that everyone takes PPI and that it would 
give them peace of mind. They also said that they were led to believe that if they did not 
take the cover, they would not get the mortgage.
I appreciate that the notion of pressure is subjective and what may cause one person to 
feel compelled to buy PPI, may not affect another. But I cant reasonably say that 
Nationwide telling Mr and Mrs I that PPI would give them peace of mind would amount to a 
pressured sale. Moreover, if they were misled into thinking that PPI was a necessary 
requirement for their mortgage to be agreed, it is not entirely clear to me why Nationwide 
would have also had to pressure them into taking the cover out. There would have been 
no need if Mr and Mrs I were labouring under the misapprehension that PPI was a 
condition of the mortgage.
I accept that what Mr and Mrs I told us is what they honestly recall about the sale. But I 
also have to bear in mind that it is difficult to recall precisely what happened over 30 
years ago  which is when this policy was sold. Looking objectively at the evidence 
before me, I cant reasonably find that Nationwide pressured them into taking the cover 
nor that they were misled in the manner they recall.The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest this was an advised sale. Nevertheless, 
Nationwide still had to give Mr and Mrs I enough information about the cover so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That information 
should have been clear, fair and not misleading.
I accept its possible that Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs I everything it should have 
done about the cover. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I 
now have to objectively consider whether Mr and Mrs I would have agreed to this policy in 
respect of Mr I if they had been given all of the relevant information. To help me decide on 
that point, I have looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI at that time. And I have 
also given careful thought to Mr and Mrs Is personal circumstances as set out above.
Looking at the policy document, I can see that Mr I would have been covered for £200, 
which was roughly half the cost of the monthly mortgage repayments if he was off sick 
from work or if he lost his job. The cover would have lasted for up to 24 months for each 
claim. It follows then that the PPI would have lasted for longer than the 26 weeks full sick 
pay Mr I would have had from work at that time.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Is other means. I accept that Mrs I was in secure 
employment and that she had recently been promoted and received a pay rise when the 
cover was sold. But Mr and Mrs I were taking on a new and significant financial 
commitment with their mortgage and the borrowing was secured on their home. With PPI, 
Mrs Is existing means could have been used to meet their other essential commitments at 
what would have no doubt been a stressful time for them if Mr I was out of work. In any 
event, circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that Mrs I would have been 
able to meet the mortgage repayments as and when that help would have been required.
I accept that Mr and Mrs I had some cash savings and some shares. It is not clear to 
me how easily Mr and Mrs I would have been able to release their capital from their  
shareholdings. And in any event, with a PPI policy, they could have kept more of their
savings and shares intact even if Mr I was out of work.
I accept that Mr I had allergies that were treated with inhalers, although as I set out above, 
the impact of that condition at the date of sale is not entirely clear. I further accept that Mr 
I may well have been unable to make a claim for this condition. However, in order to make 
such a claim, Mr I would have had to be off work for at least 90 days. Notwithstanding any 
hospital attendances, Mr and Mrs I were clear that Mr I had not taken any time off work 
because of the allergies. On that basis, I find it is unlikely Mr I would have thought he 
would need to take 90 consecutive days off work because of his diagnosis. That being so, 
I cant say Mr and Mrs I would have acted differently if theyd been told more about the 
exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
I set out above that Mr I began a teaching role at some point in 1989. In my view, having a 
second job could have made it more difficult for Mr I to make a successful unemployment 
claim. But from the information I have, I cant say its most likely that Mr I had two roles in 
March 1989 when the cover was sold. Mr I cannot tell us when in that year he started 
teaching. I havent seen anything else that was unusual about Mr Is circumstances that 
would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to  and 
I note that a successful claim for unemployment was made in 1994.
Taking everything into account, I cant objectively say that Mr and Mrs I would have acted 
differently in respect of Mr Is circumstances even if Nationwide had given them more or 
better information. Im provisionally satisfied the cover was not mis-sold.In respect of the 1995 sale, I said: 
The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest this was an advised sale. But again, as I said 
above, when the cover was sold to Mr and Mrs I, Dunfermline Building Society had to give 
them enough information about it so they could decide for themselves whether it was right 
for them.
Ive been provided with a copy of the PPI application form. I think its most likely that the 
information Mr and Mrs I were given during the sale probably followed what was written in 
that document.
I can see that Mr and Mrs I signed to say they had read and understood the terms, 
conditions and exclusions of the cover. That document has not been provided to me, but 
in any event, the onus was on Dunfermline Building Society to highlight the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way. It was not for Mr and Mrs I to establish those provisions themselves by 
reading through the terms and conditions.
I also note that a specimen policy document was only made available to Mr and Mrs I if 
they requested it.
I cant see the cost of the cover disclosed on the application form, so its not clear to me 
whether Mr and Mrs I would have known how much their monthly premiums were.
And Ive already accepted that from an unknown date in 1989, Mr I had a second job and 
my
provisional view is that this could have affected his ability to make a claim on the
unemployment part of the policy. I say this because Mr I would only have been considered
unemployed if he was:
in receipt of National Insurance Unemployment Benefit or, in the absence of entitlement 
to such benefit, provides satisfactory evidence of being registered as unemployed at the 
Department of Employment in the United Kingdom and is actively seeking re-employment
Given the nature of Mr Is second job and its fluctuating hours, it could have been more 
difficult for him to make a benefit claim or register as unemployed, particularly as there 
may well have been some periods in which he worked for more than 16 hours a week.
With that in mind, my provisional view is that Mr and Mrs I would not have bought the 
cover in 1995 if Dunfermline Building Society had told them everything it should have 
done. I have provisionally decided that Nationwide will need to take
action to put things right.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs I indicated they 
agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Nationwide did not agree. In summary, it said it was not aware of Mr Is second job until it 
received my provisional decision and that additional role had not been mentioned in the 
original complaint or in the PPI questionnaire Mr and Mrs I completed.  Moreover, 
Nationwide said the second job had not been disclosed when Mr and Mrs I applied for their 
mortgage and so it would not have prompted further consideration at the relevant time. 
Nationwide contended that it was unlikely Mr I worked for more than 16 hours per week, 
given he worked one afternoon and one evening and on weekend residential courses. It 
reiterated that Mr I had made a successful unemployment claim in 1994. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
As neither party disagreed with what I said in my provisional decision about the 1989 sale, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional view in that regard and so I dont uphold the 
complaint in respect of that policy. Ive given careful thought to the further representations 
made by Nationwide. But I still think the complaint should be upheld in respect of the 1995 
sale. Ill explain why below. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs I didnt mention the second job in their original complaint. But the 
information about this work came to light after our adjudicator made further enquiries. It was 
not a ground of complaint pursued by Mr and Mrs I and it doesnt appear to me that they 
were aware of the significance that second job would have on my consideration of this 
complaint. As to the PPI questionnaire, I note that it was completed as though the policy was 
sold in 1980 and so Mr I didnt have a second job at that stage. It was this error which 
prompted our adjudicator to make the aforementioned further enquiries. 
I have also reconsidered the mortgage application form. I note that no employment details 
were completed for Mr I at that stage, presumably because he was an employee of the 
Dunfermline Building Society at the time. The only employment details to have been 
completed on the application were in respect of Mrs I. So I dont think this has a bearing on 
whether Mr I had a second job at that time. I have no reason to doubt that Mr Is second job 
was as he told us. 
I have considered at length what Nationwide said about the hours Mr I worked. In its 
response, it made reference to his weekly teaching and twice-termly residential teaching. 
Nationwide didnt refer fully to what I said in my provisional decision in that Mr I also covered 
colleagues absences and also undertook exam marking. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, there may have been some weeks in which he worked for more than 16 hours a 
week and others where he did not. Accordingly, I remain of the view that it may well have 
been more difficult for Mr I to register as unemployed as required to make a successful 
unemployment claim. 
Nationwide also referred to the successful claim Mr I made in 1994. I note that 
unemployment is defined differently in the earlier 1989 policy under which the successful 
claim was made. In any event, the question for me is whether Mr I would have acted in a 
different way if it had been made clear what he had to do to be deemed unemployed.  My 
view remains that Mr and Mrs I would not have bought this cover if theyd known it could 
have been difficult for Mr I to make a successful claim in that regard. 
So, I uphold this complaint in respect of the 1995 sale and Nationwide will need to take 
action to put things right.
Putting things right
 Nationwide must put Mr and Mrs I in the position they would be in now if they hadnt taken 
out the PPI. 
It must: Pay Mr and Mrs I the amount they paid each month for the PPI policy sold in 1995;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year; 
If Mr and Mrs I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. Nationwide can also 
deduct the amount it refunded in respect of Mrs Is premiums from the amount it will 
now owe.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
 I partly uphold this complaint and require Nationwide to put things right in respect of the 
1995 sale as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman