DRN-3595494
The complaint
Ms S, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Morses believes that Ms S was advanced 8 home collected loans. However, Morses didnt 
have any information at all about loans 1 and 2 and Ms S has also not provided any 
information about those loans either. 
In total, Morses provided details of 6 loans, and Ive included some of the information weve 
received about these loans in the table below. The loan table numbering is the same as 
outlined in Morses final response letter. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
3 £200.00 12/11/2010 30/09/2011 34 £10.00
4 £200.00 15/12/2011 12/10/2012 34 £10.00
5 £400.00 21/12/2012 11/10/2013 34 £20.00
gap in lending
6 £400.00 16/12/2014 18/08/2015 34 £20.00
7 £400.00 18/08/2015 17/05/2016 34 £20.00
8 £500.00 17/05/2016 30/03/2017 33 £25.00
Following Ms Ss complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold the complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks before it granted 
these loans. Ms Ss representative didnt agree with the outcome and referred the complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and based on the two lending chains she wasnt able 
to uphold the complaint because in her view, there was nothing in the information 
Ms S provided that may have led Morses to have declined the lending. 
She thought further checks needed to be carried out before loans 5 and 8 were granted, 
given the time in debt and the fact the loans were increasing in values. But she couldnt say 
what Morses may have seen at the time because Ms Ss representative had already told the 
Financial Ombudsman it wasnt able to provide any information such as bank statements or 
a credit file. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment.  
Ms Ss representative didnt agree with the proposed outcome, it said verbatim:
Our client does not wish to accept this offer please can you refer this for final 
decision with the Ombudsman
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms S could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ss 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms S. These factors include:
Ms S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms S.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms S could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms S was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ss complaint.
In the loan table above, there is one significant gap of around 14 months between loans 5 
and 6. In my view, this gap was big enough for a new lending chain to begin. This means 
that for loan 6, Morses was entitled to treat Ms Ss application afresh and in effect treat loan 
6 as loan 1 in a new lending chain. 
There are also, in the first chain a number of smaller gaps of around two months between 
each loan. While, these gaps arent enough to break the chain (or create a new chain of lending) I have considered the gaps because it does show that Ms S wasnt necessarily 
reliant on this type of credit. 
Loans 3  4
Due to the passage of time Morses isnt able to provide evidence of the checks that it carried 
out before these loans were approved. I dont consider this to be unusual or suspicious, but I 
have to recognise that these loans were approved up to 12 years ago and therefore its 
reasonable that some information isnt available. 
However, from my experience of working these sorts of cases that it is likely that before 
these loans were approved Morses wouldve asked Ms S for details of her income and 
expenditure. 
Ms S also hasnt been able to provide any details of what her likely income and expenditure 
was at the time these loans were approved. 
Without information from either party to show exactly what information and checks Morses 
carried out, I am not going to be a in a position to be able to conclude that Morses shouldnt 
have granted these loans or didnt carry out a proportionate check. 
Im therefore not upholding Ms Ss complaint about these loans. 
Loan 5 and 8
The adjudicator said that for these two loans, Morses may have wanted to have gone further 
with its checks given the amount of time that Ms S had spent in debt and the fact that her 
loans were increasing in value. Looking at the lending history I agree with the adjudicator.
For loan 5, albeit there were some small gaps between the loans, Ms Ss loans had 
increased in value and this loan was for now twice as much as loan 3. 
For loan 8, Ms S had been indebted in this chain for 19 months and Ms Ss loans had now 
reached £500 again. In addition, for both loans 5 and 8 there was an emerging pattern of Ms 
S repaying her loans late, for example loan 7 was repaid 4 weeks later than planned.  
Taking account of these factors I think it wouldve been reasonable for Morses checks to go 
further than they did. Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ss actual 
financial position to ensure loans 5 and 8 were affordable. This couldve been done in 
several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at her bank 
statements. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there 
was any other information Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Ss financial 
position. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to 
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered 
that Ms S couldnt afford the loan. 
Ms Ss representative has told us that Ms S cant get hold of her bank statements or her 
credit file or any other information that may have shown what Ms Ss financial position was 
at the time.  So, without the requested information from Ms S about her living costs and her 
wider financial position, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had 
it made better checks. Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest 
Morses shouldnt have lent loans 5 and 8. As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms Ss 
complaint about these loans.
Loans 6 and 7
As the adjudicator pointed out, loan 6 was the first loan in a new lending relationship. This 
means I think it was reasonable for Morses to have treated Ms Ss application afresh and in 
effect treat her as a new customer. This therefore has implications for the level and type and 
checks that I think it needed to do. 
Ms S returned for these loans after around a 14-month break, and these loans were for the 
same sum as loan 5. This, along with the break have led me to conclude that Morses carried 
out a proportionate check for these loans and the information it likely gathered suggested Ms 
S was in a position to afford the repayments for these loans. 
For these loans, I understand Morses wouldve carried out similar checks as it had done so 
on the previous loans. Morses hasnt been able to provide the income and expenditure 
information for Ms S and as Ive said above, I dont know what her situation was at the time 
as her representative has told us it cant get bank statements or a credit file. 
Morses has also said for loan 6 only, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. It is worth saying that there is no 
requirement within the regulations at the time to have carried out a credit search let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what Morses couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to any concerning information that it may have seen. 
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied there was no adverse 
information such as defaults, delinquent accounts or County Court Judgements. Ms S also 
only had three active credit accounts and had outstanding debts of just under £1,000. It 
wasnt in my view sufficient for Morses to either decline the application or to have prompted 
it to have carried out further in-depth checks given the results of the credit search.  
It was early on in the lending relationship in this chain and it was reasonable for Morses to 
have relied on the information Ms S provided and there wasnt anything, as far as I can see 
that wouldve prompted Morses to have either declined these loans or asked for further 
information from Ms S. Im, therefore not uphold Ms Ss complaint about these two loans. 
Overall, I am not upholding Ms Ss complaint about any of her loans. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman