DRN-3516698
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse him after he fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Background
The background to this case is well known to the parties and was set out at length in the 
Investigators view, so I dont intend to repeat it here. Briefly, Mr T has an account with 
Monzo. In 2020, he used that account to make payments that he believed related to an 
investment but were in fact to a scammer. 
Hed been researching potential investment opportunities online when he encountered a 
company which purported to offer investment services. It had a website promoting its 
services and a fairly extensive presence on social media. Mr T contacted a representative of 
this company and was persuaded to transfer his money into a fund it controlled. 
He was told that he was signing up to an arrangement where profits on all investments 
would be divided evenly between him and the firm managing his investment. He was asked 
to sign several apparently official documents which persuaded him that the opportunity was 
a genuine one.
He made several payments to bank accounts in the names of private individuals. The 
scammer told him that these were the names of employees of the firm. The initial payments 
he made from his Monzo account were quite small. He paid £200 at first. Four days later, he 
transferred £500. The scammer convinced Mr T that the investment performed well. It was 
on the basis of that apparently strong performance that he was persuaded to invest more of 
his money. In total, he invested a little over £10,000.
Once he realised that hed fallen victim to a scam, he notified Monzo but it said it wouldnt 
reimburse him.  Mr T was unhappy with this and so he referred his complaint to this service. 
It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator considered the complaint 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. He didnt think that Monzo had 
demonstrated that any of the exceptions to reimbursement under the code applied here. He 
was satisfied that Mr T had a reasonable basis to believe that he was paying into a genuine 
investment.
Monzo argued that:
- Mr T didnt carry out enough checks on the person he was paying.
- It wasnt reasonable for him to take any comfort from the fact that he couldnt find any 
negative reviews of the company online. 
- He shouldve been more apprehensive of the fact that most of his communications 
with the scammer took place on social media and a messaging app. A reputable firm 
wouldnt do this.
- The website that the scammer built didnt look particularly professional and Mr T 
shouldnt have been reassured by it.
- The returns on offer from this investment opportunity were clearly too good to be 
true.
Because Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Ive also considered the voluntary CRM Code, which 
Monzo has agreed to adhere to and was in force at the time.
The starting principle under the code is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is a 
victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud except in a small number of 
circumstances. It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of 
care under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM code. In opting to not 
reimburse Mr T, Monzo has relied on the following exception:
A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if it can establish [that] in all the 
circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of the 
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
(i) the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
(ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
(iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Im mindful of the fact that this isnt an objective test. When considering whether Monzo has 
done enough to show that this exception applies, I must bear in mind the individual 
characteristics of Mr T as its customer. Ive considered the evidence on this point carefully 
and Im not satisfied that Monzo can rely on this exception to reimbursement.
I think the direct communications between Mr T and the scammer were generally plausible. 
The scammer asked Mr T to go through a series of fake processes to persuade him that he 
was dealing with a genuine investment provider.  This included agreeing to the terms of a 
detailed contract. The scammer also told him that information about the trades being placed 
on his behalf was proprietary information and so he needed to sign a non-disclosure 
agreement. 
Monzo has argued that Mr T shouldve been more sceptical of an investment opportunity 
that came to his attention on social media and that his communications with the scammer 
took place via a social messaging platform. Im not persuaded by that argument. Mr T 
became aware of this apparent opportunity on a social media platform on which most major 
financial businesses have a presence. The ongoing communications took place via a 
messaging app. This would be an unusual practice for a mainstream business. However, I 
dont think it wouldve been unusual from Mr Ts perspective that ongoing communications 
would take place using the quickest and simplest means of communication possible, particularly given that hed been told his money was being invested in a range of financial 
instruments where timing was particularly important.
Theres also been some concern regarding the website that was set up by the scammer. 
Mr T said that he consulted this website and that it was one of the things that persuaded him 
to invest his money. Monzo has said that the website wasnt particularly professional in 
appearance. It isnt live anymore and hasnt been for some time, although its possible to see 
a partial archive of it stored online by the Wayback Machine. 
All that is visible now is a menu of options in a column on the left-hand side of the page. 
Theres an archive of a blog with the post titles that relate to personal finance and 
investment. As far as I can see, none of those posts appear to have been archived. The 
background images that might have lent this website a professional aesthetic havent been 
saved as part of the archive. Its therefore very difficult to visualise what Mr T might have 
seen when he looked at it at the time. However, Ive not been able to identify anything in the 
evidence Ive seen that ought to have put Mr T on notice of the risk that this investment was 
really a scam. Overall, Im not persuaded that the website can be used to justify the 
exception to reimbursement Monzo is seeking to rely on.
Ive also thought about the returns that Mr T was promised before he invested. Clearly, these 
werent in line with those available to the typical retail investor. I can also see that Mr T was 
assured that the risk to his capital was very low. Mr T lacked knowledge and experience in 
the field of investments. A more experienced customer would likely have been more 
sceptical of the promises the scammer made. However, Im satisfied he acted reasonably 
when that lack of knowledge is factored in. I understand hed monitored the social media 
profile of the scammer for several months before contacting him. In addition, the pattern of 
payments suggests that he proceeded with some degree of caution. The first were fairly 
small - £200 and £500 respectively. It was only the apparently strong performance of his 
upfront investment that persuaded him to invest further. 
He tells me that he did look online to find anything that might suggest cause for concern. He 
was reassured by the fact that he didnt find any negative reviews. Monzo has argued that 
Mr T shouldve checked the website of the Financial Conduct Authority to see if the company 
was authorised or spoken to a financial advisor. It says that the mere absence of negative 
reviews isnt a very good basis for deciding that an opportunity like this one isnt a scam. I 
agree with that, but given Mr Ts relative inexperience, the fact that he was persuaded by 
what he found when he conducted online research doesnt persuade me that he acted 
carelessly. Overall, Im not persuaded that Monzo has demonstrated Mr T didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing that the company he was investing with was a legitimate one. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mr T accepts my final decision, Monzo Bank Ltd should refund the payments he made in 
connection with this scam.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman