DRN-2645982
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums she paid for 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 4 September 2019, Mrs E bought a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker, 
which was insured by Great Lakes. Mrs Es policy covered a trip shed planned to take 
abroad between 23 May and 7 June 2020. The policy cost Mrs E £555.61 for the basic level 
of single trip insurance cover and included cover for six medical conditions. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs Es accommodation provider got in touch on 27 
March 2020 to check whether she wanted to cancel her booking. On 7 April 2020, Mrs E got 
in touch with her broker to cancel her policy. Subsequently, the holiday booking was 
cancelled on 14 April 2020.  Mrs E wanted a cash refund of her policy premium. 
Great Lakes didnt offer Mrs E a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered her a pro-rata credit 
voucher for the portion of unused cover, which could be put towards another policy; which 
would be valid for 36 months and which could be gifted to a third party. Its total pro-rata 
voucher offer was £123.91.
Mrs E wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair. She set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. She also 
explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to 
bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 4 September 2019 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mrs E a credit voucher, which would be valid for 36 months and 
which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. She didnt think the terms 
of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mrs E 
a cash refund of her premium.
Mrs E disagreed. She said it looked as if foreign holidays might be difficult again this year, so 
the vouchers might not be useful. She felt that Great Lakes had kept her money without 
providing a service. And she said that other members of her party had had their policy 
premiums refunded.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs E, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mrs Ds cooling-off period ended on 18 September 2019. But the policy 
wasnt cancelled until 7 April 2020. So her cancellation was outside of the 14-day 
cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion 
and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this policy 
term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  
such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I dont think the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Es contract with Great Lakes entitle her to any refund of 
premiums.  
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mrs E with 
a credit voucher for the unused portion of her cover is fair and reasonable. Great 
Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 276-day period if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 62 days of cover, after the 
policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mrs E 
making a claim after that point. In the circumstances of this case, I think its fair and 
reasonable to use 7 April 2020 as the relevant date for the pro-rata refund because 
Mrs D cancelled her policy around a week before her trip was actually cancelled. So 
on the facts of this case, I think its fair that the date of the cancellation of the policy is 
used to calculate the refund. And having checked Great Lakes refund calculation, Im 
satisfied it was correct.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because while Mrs E mentioned that a large, family holiday like 
the one shed had planned might have been a one off, it doesnt seem as if she has no plans to travel again at all going forwards. Great Lakes credit voucher is valid for 
36 months, meaning that while travel plans are still uncertain, its likely Mrs E will be 
able to put the voucher towards another policy in the future. She also has the option 
to gift it to a third party. So I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly 
restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mrs E will be disappointed in my decision, Im 
not telling Great Lakes to pay her a cash refund of her premiums or do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman