DRN-1712132
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1996. Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
 What happened
Mr G took out a Barclaycard in 1996. He completed an application to apply for the card. 
Barclays said he applied for the card in one of its branches. There was a section on the form 
to select if the customer wanted PPI. The box was ticked on Mr G's application form and the 
form was signed. It covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included 
some life cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr G says he doesn't recall being given any advice about PPI. He says, in summary, the 
costs and benefits of the policy were not made clear to him and he was in good health and in 
a secure professional job, so he didn't need or want PPI. He said that he thought PPI was 
taken out by post. 
Barclays has sent in a copy of Mr Gs credit card application form. On it, theres a section 
about PPI. To take out PPI, the customer had to select the box saying they wanted PPI. The 
box couldve been left blank if they didnt want it. There is a tick in the box on Mr Gs 
application selecting PPI. I think it likely that Mr G wouldve understood from the form that 
PPI was optional. So, I think it more likely he opted to take PPI, completing the paperwork 
and signing the form to say he wanted it. I can understand why he may not remember that 
now, given how much time has passed.
Barclays says it can tell the card was applied for in the branch by the type of application form 
used. Having looked at what Mr G and Barclays have said about this, I think it more likely 
that the paperwork was completed in a branch.
Mr G said he wasn't advised to take out PPI. However, if this was an advised sale that would 
have placed an extra responsibility on Barclays to advise Mr G on the suitability of the policy 
for his needs. I can't know what was discussed at the time, but to be fair to Mr G, given I 
think this was a branch sale with an adviser present, I've treated this as if Barclays 
recommended he take PPI. So, I've gone on to consider whether the policy was suitable for 
Mr Gs needs. Whether this was an advised sale or not, Barclays also had to give him information that was clear, fair and not misleading, so that he could decide for himself if the 
PPI was right for him and if he wanted to buy it.
I think the policy was suitable for Mr Gs needs, Ill say why.
Mr G was eligible to take out the policy and it appeared affordable.
Mr G was employed at the time. He said he would've been eligible to get six months' 
pay at full pay and six months' at half pay if he was off work sick. In summary, he 
said, he had savings worth around 9 to 12 months' worth of pay. The PPI would've 
paid out on top of Mr G's work related benefits, for up to 12 months per successful 
claim. I think this might've been useful to Mr G as it would've allowed him to use his 
savings to meet his other living expenses at what might've been a difficult time for 
him financially, particularly if he ended up on half pay. Also, he could've claimed if he 
was made involuntarily unemployed. 
Mr G was asked to provide evidence of his savings as he had provided inconsistent 
information about these. He didn't supply this information, but that's perhaps not 
surprising given that businesses often don't hold on to bank records for more than six 
years and this sale goes back nearly 25 years ago. I wouldn't expect Mr G to hold 
this information personally now either, given the passage of time. Based on what I've 
seen,  I can't fairly conclude that Mr G's other resources made the policy unsuitable 
for him. 
I can't see that Mr G was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policy. So, I don't think having clearer information about these things would've put 
him off buying it.
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr Gs said but these points dont change my decision. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman