DRN-1833419
The complaint
This complaint is about a commercial mortgage application that A made to Shawbrook Bank 
Limited in late 2018. Shawbrook declined to lend after completing all of its underwriting 
enquiries. As directors say Shawbrook shouldnt have arranged the valuation before all of its 
checks had been completed, and believe the valuation fee should be refunded.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and also rounding some of the amounts involved. No 
discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the complainant company 
and/or its directors when my decision is published.
The application was made to Shawbrook through As intermediary, a broker firm Ill call C; 
the proposed security for the loan was a home of multiple occupation that A already owned. 
In October 2018, Shawbrook issued an indicative offer  in effect, an agreement in principle 
 setting out the basis on which it would consider lending to A. 
The indicative offer contained an extensive list of requirements that would need to be 
satisfied before it would consider issuing a formal offer. The list of requirements included, but 
was not restricted to, proof of where the money to buy the property had come from, and what 
A intended doing with the proceeds of the mortgage. In late November 2018, Shawbrook 
instructed a valuer, and the valuation was carried out on 5 December 2018. The fee for this 
was  £2,250. 
Meanwhile, the enquiries necessary to satisfy the requirements set out in the indicative offer 
continued. Much of the information was received in February 2019; this revealed that the 
funds to buy the property had come from overseas, and connected to transactions carried 
out by other limited companies that were the primary shareholders in A. After some 
additional searches into the audit trail of the funds, Shawbrook decided in May 2019 not to 
continue with the application. 
When A complained, Shawbrook conceded that it should have rejected the application in 
February rather than May 2019, and offered £250 for trouble and upset caused by that 
delay. But it denied As claim that it had enough information to reject the application before 
the valuation was conducted.
Our investigator thought Shawbrooks offer was fair. As directors have asked that the 
complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; but a lender must treat customers 
fairly. In the context of an application for lending, that means assessing it fairly in 
accordance with the banks lending criteria. Generally speaking, its not the role of an 
ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial judgement on how much it will lend, and 
I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
So Im not going to say that Shawbrook should have been able to make its lending decision 
sooner than February 2019. But I have considered whether it treated A fairly by 
commissioning the valuation when it did. The list of requirements in the indicative offer was 
long, and there was a lot that could go wrong. So, on first glance, it might have been prudent 
to wait until the enquiries were complete before committing A to the expense of the 
valuation.
However, Shawbrooks contemporaneous notes show that it was asked to commission the 
valuation by C, during a phone call on 26 November 2018. In those circumstances, it would 
have been reasonable for Shawbrook to infer that C was conveying instructions from A to 
commission the valuation. That being the case, I cant fairly say that Shawbrook treated A 
unfairly in committing it to the pay the valuation fee in December 2018 before the enquiries 
were complete.
In making that finding, I imply no criticism of C, and to be clear, none should be inferred. I 
can only assess Shawbrooks role here. The directors of A might want to take advice before 
deciding if they wish to pursue the matter with C. All Id add is that if they did that and 
werent happy with the outcome, then we would not be able to consider a complaint about C. 
The arranging of and advising on unregulated commercial mortgages doesnt fall within the 
remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that this complaint should be fairly 
resolved by Shawbrook Bank Limited paying A £250. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman