DRN-1283969
 
The complaint 
Mr H says he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Leeds 
Building Society. 
What happened
In 2000, Leeds Building Society sold Mr H a monthly premium PPI policy to protect his 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr H disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from the sale in 2000. I can understand 
Mr Hs frustration about that, but I dont find it surprising given how long ago the sale took 
place. 
Mr H says the PPI was sold over the phone but its not clear whether thats the case. 
Unfortunately, there are no longer any call recordings or scripts that might show how any 
discussions about PPI went. But, without persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise, I cant 
fairly say that Mr H wasnt made aware he was being sold PPI or that he had a choice about 
taking it. On balance, I find it just as likely as anything else that the PPI was only added after 
Mr H agreed to have it. 
Equally, I havent seen strong enough evidence that Leeds Building Society pressured Mr H 
into buying the PPI as he says it did. 
Leeds Building Society says it recommended the PPI to Mr H. That meant, among other 
things, Leeds Building Society needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for him. 
Regardless of what steps it took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for him in any 
case. 
For example, from the policy terms and from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the 
time, it seems he was eligible for the cover. And I cant see that Mr H was significantly 
affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited cover for.
Mr H says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer for a time. But the PPI 
benefits potentially paid out on top of that, and for longer, at up to 12 months per claim. It covered him for unemployment too. The PPI would also have allowed him to retain his 
savings or use them towards covering his other living costs if he wasnt working. Considering 
that Mr H had just entered into a long-term financial commitment that was secured against 
his home, I think it likely hed have valued the extra protection the PPI provided. 
Further, Ive no reason to think the PPI premium wasnt affordable for Mr H. And the PPI was 
flexible in that Mr H could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he felt it was 
no longer suitable for him.
Leeds Building Society also needed to give Mr H enough information about the PPI to allow 
him to decide for himself if it was right for him. I think its possible that the information it gave 
him could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI 
was unsuitable for him, I dont think that better information would have affected his decision 
to take it. I think hed still have thought it provided useful benefits at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr H has lost out because of how Leeds 
Building Society sold him the PPI. 
In saying that, Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, including how widely PPI was 
mis-sold by banks in general and the number of cases theyre agreeing to settle without our 
involvement. But this doesnt change my decision since Leeds Building Societys entitled to 
defend the sale if it believes the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Once complaints come to us, were 
required to consider each one on its own merits  and thats what Ive done here.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman