DRN-2249147
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Santander UK Plc was unfair when it declined their porting 
application. They paid an early repayment charge (ERC) and ask that Santander refunds it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Santander in 2018. They say Santander confirmed 
theyd be able to port the mortgage and take out additional borrowing to buy the house they 
wanted. They went ahead with their plans to move home. Santander then declined their 
application, saying the amount they wanted to borrow wasnt affordable. 
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with another lender. They paid an ERC of about £6,500 
to Santander. Mr and Mrs R say Santander should refund the ERC as it chose not to port 
their mortgage.
Our investigator said Santander had assessed Mr and Mrs Rs application fairly. They didnt 
pass its affordability assessment for the amount they wanted to borrow. Mr and Mrs R repaid 
their mortgage while the ERC applied, so Santander was entitled to ask them to pay it. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. Mr R said Santander led them to believe it would port the 
mortgage. He said hed provided evidence of income higher than hed estimated when 
speaking to Santanders adviser, so declining their application wasnt reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage product which included an ERC. This applied until July 
2020. As they repaid the mortgage during this time, Santander was entitled, under the 
mortgage terms, to apply the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs R say the circumstances here make it unfair for Santander to apply the ERC. 
They say they were led to believe theyd be able to transfer their mortgage to a new property 
and borrow the amount they wanted. And Santander didnt assess their income fairly.
Having considered what Mr and Mrs R have said. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Santander to refund the ERC. Ive explained why below.
Mr R spoke to Santander in July and August 2019 about porting the mortgage and 
increasing their borrowing. Ive listened to recordings of these calls.
Mr R spoke to Santander in mid-July. The adviser said if Mr R wanted to know how much he 
could borrow he can do that on line, by applying for a decision in principle. The adviser said 
this was only guidance and was not an application. 
Mr R called again on 14 August 2019. He provided income and expenditure information. The 
adviser said he could look at affordability based on what Mr R said, so long as he was aware 
it could affect affordability when he sends in his documents. The adviser said the information 
provided was enough to refer the application to a mortgage adviser for an affordability 
assessment. Santander asked Mr R for evidence to support what hed said about his and 
Mrs Rs income.
On 21 August 2019 Santander called Mr R. The adviser said because Mr Rs employment 
income varied each month it had to base its affordability assessment on the lowest amount. 
That meant it couldnt lend the amount Mr and Mrs R wanted to borrow. The adviser 
confirmed to Mr R theyd have to pay the ERC if they repaid the mortgage.
Having listened to these calls, I dont think Santander gave assurances, or misled Mr and 
Mrs R about being able to borrow the amount they wanted. 
Lenders have policies about how they treat different sources of income. Part of Mr Rs 
income was from self-employment. Part was employment income. He was employed on a 
zero hours contract and the amount he earned varied. Santander told Mr R how this affected 
their application and why it couldnt offer them the amount they wanted to borrow. I dont 
think it treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly when it assessed their application.
When Mr R called on 14 August 2019, he told Santander theyd received two offers on their 
house, and would decide which to accept in the next 24 hours. He said hed had an offer 
accepted on a property they wanted to buy. Mr and Mrs R were in the early stages of the 
sale and purchase process. Santander told them on 21 August  a week later  that it 
couldnt offer them the loan they wanted. 
I dont think there was any delay here in Santander giving Mr and Mrs R the information they 
needed to decide whether to proceed with their sale and purchase, despite not being able to 
port their mortgage. And if there was another call (for which I dont have a recording) in 
which Santander led Mr and Mrs R to believe it would port the mortgage, this would have 
been quickly corrected. 
I dont think Santander treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly when it assessed their mortgage 
application or applied the ERC. When Mr and Mrs R took out their mortgage they agreed to 
the terms  including the ERC. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
require Santander to refund the ERC. 
Mr R says hell take Santander to court if his complaint isnt upheld. If Mr and Mrs R dont 
accept my decision, theyll be able to take the matter to court if they want to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman