DRN-3003633
The complaint
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund money she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In September 2020 Miss C  fell victim to a scam. 
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
Miss C was looking to rent an apartment. Having searched online, through Facebook 
Marketplace and through agencies she came across an apartment that was suitable for her.  
She contacted the person who was advertising the apartment on Facebook Marketplace and 
was told that it was actually the advertisers sister who was the landlord renting the 
apartment. Miss C was given their email details and told she could contact them directly to 
discuss the apartment.
Miss C has explained that having exchanged a number of emails she agreed to rent the 
apartment. The landlord asked Miss C to make an initial payment through an Airbnb 
account, the landlord explaining that she had already paid fees for this account, which is why 
she wanted the payment made this way. But adding that future payments for monthly rent 
could be paid through her bank account in England.
Thinking everything was genuine, Miss C went ahead and made a payment for £1,400, on 
23 September 2020, to the account details provided. Having made the payment, she was 
then unable to establish any further contact with the landlord. So Miss C contacted the 
person who owned the Facebook account where the property had been advertised, only to 
be told that the Facebook account had been hacked and it wasnt her that she hadnt initially 
spoken to. It was at this point Miss C realised that she had been scammed, and her payment 
had been made to a fraudster.
Miss C contacted HSBC and has said that the bank initially told her that as she had 
contacted it so quickly, there was a good chance that the money was still in the fraudsters 
account and a good chance she would get her money back. But HSBC later learnt that no 
funds remained in the beneficiary account and the money had been withdrawn and the 
account closed.
Miss C complained to HSBC and it issued its final response on 23 October 2020 not 
upholding the complaint. In summary it said it had processed the payment in line with the 
instruction Miss C had created and as this was an international payment it was not covered 
within any UK Fraud indemnity claim. It added that it had tried to recover the money, but 
unfortunately no funds remained. 
HSBC did award £150 to Miss C, this was in recognition of it saying that its service could 
have been better. This was because it told Miss C that there was a good chance it could 
recover Miss Cs payment. It acknowledged it was unfair to say this, when it had no way of 
knowing if it would be successful in recovering the funds.
Miss C then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think HSBC could have done anything to prevent the scam. In 
summary he didnt think he could fairly have expected HSBCs systems to have flagged the 
transaction. Our investigator was also satisfied that HSBC did what it could to recover the 
money, once it was aware of the scam.
Miss C didnt accept our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint 
has now been passed over to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss C, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about HSBCs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave 
Miss C s account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and 
recover the money. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss C, when she made the transfer and when she reported the fraud, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
In making the payments through her online banking, Im satisfied Miss C authorised the 
transaction. Because of this, HSBC had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are 
some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice 
HSBC shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
HSBC has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction was so unusual or suspicious in comparison to 
Miss C s normal account activity that it ought to have alerted HSBC that Miss C was at risk 
of financial harm.
I say this as, having looked through Miss C s bank statements for the twelve months leading 
up to the scam, I can see that Miss C has made a number of international payments. And 
while, this appears to be the largest payment Miss C had made, I dont think it would have 
appeared as so remarkable to HSBC that it ought to have fairly and reasonably caused it 
any concern that Miss C may have been at risk of financial harm. The payment also didnt 
clear the entire account balance, which can often be an indicator of a scam. 
Overall, I simply dont think the payment stood out as being so unusual or suspicious that I 
could fairly or reasonably have expected HSBC to have intervened. As a result, I dont think 
HSBC acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. 
There isnt enough here for me to think HSBC should have suspected Miss C might be the 
victim of a potential scam.
Ive gone on to think about whether HSBC did what it shouldve done once it was aware this 
was a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask HSBC to refund the money to Miss C, I 
need to be satisfied that HSBC should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. 
And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference.
Here, I can see HSBC raised the matter with the receiving bank and it responded to say that 
no funds remained, and the account had been closed. Sadly, it is quite typical with these 
types of scams for fraudsters to move money away from the beneficiary account, soon after 
the payments are made  which makes it difficult for funds to be recovered.
HSBC acknowledged that it could have provided a better service to Miss C and in 
recognition of this it offered her £150. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Its very unfortunate Miss C has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for her and I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say HSBC should 
have done more to prevent Miss C from losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for 
me to ask HSBC to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2021. 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman