DRN-3627897
The complaint
Mrs N complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and their decision to 
decline the claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N took out a pet insurance policy with RSA, to cover her cat, who Ill refer to as B. Mrs 
N made a successful claim on this policy in June 2020, when B was given medication to 
treat a Urinary Tract Infection (UTI).
In August 2020, RSA wrote to Mrs N to explain that, in line with the terms of her insurance 
policy and the level of cover she held, the 12-month time limit for additional UTI claims to be 
raised would end on 3 June 2021.
On 4 August 2021, B was diagnosed with another UTI. And Mrs N made another claim on 
her RSA insurance policy to cover the costs of the treatment for this diagnosis. But RSA 
declined the claim, explaining the time limit for UTI claims had expired. Mrs N was unhappy 
about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs N didnt think RSA were fair to decline the claim. She didnt think it was fair for RSA to 
say the two illnesses were linked, due to the time that had elapsed between them. And she 
explained this belief was supported by her vet, who treated B on both occasions. So, she 
wanted RSA to accept the claim and cover the treatment costs.
RSA didnt agree. They thought they had declined the claim fairly, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mrs N held. They explained they had given Mrs Ns vets the chance 
to explain why they felt the claim should be upheld, but they werent satisfied with the 
response they received. And they explained their own in-house vet thought it was most likely 
both UTIs had been caused due to the steroids B had been on previously, as this was a 
common side effect of prolonged steroid use. So, RSA didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mrs N remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought RSA had acted 
fairly, in line with the terms of the policy, when declining the claim. They thought RSA had 
made it clear that there was a deadline for when further UTI claims could be made. And they 
were satisfied Mrs Ns second claim fell outside of this. And she thought RSA acted 
reasonably when relying on the advice their own in-house vet had provided. So, they didnt 
think RSA needed to do anything more. 
Mrs N didnt agree. She maintained her view that there was a significant amount of time 
between the two claims and so it was unreasonable to say they were linked. Mrs N was also 
unhappy with the reasoning RSA provided when declining her claim, which she felt changed 
several times. And Mrs N also raised concerns about the way insurers interpreted their terms 
and how these were communicated to customers at the inception of a policy. As Mrs N didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs N. I appreciate she took 
out the policy with RSA to help cover the financial costs associated with any unexpected 
illnesses and treatments B may have needed. And I recognise Mrs N wouldnt have had any 
way of foreseeing Bs second UTI and so, was unlikely to have planned for this financially. 
So, when she made a claim to RSA and it was declined, I can understand the upset and 
worry this wouldve caused due to the financial ramifications.
But for me to say RSA have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
outside of the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs N held when declining the claim. Or, if I 
think they worked within these, that it was unfair of them to do so. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider, and how. I appreciate this complaint has created 
concerns for Mrs N about the way insurers are able interpret claims, and present these to 
consumers. But the overall way in which terms are set and interpreted form part of a 
business such as RSAs commercial process. And this is something that would fall under the 
remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, the investigate rather than 
ourselves. So, I wont be commenting on this further.
And I want to make it clear its not my role to re-underwrite the claim Mrs N has submitted. 
Instead, my decision has focused on the actions of RSA to consider whether I think they 
processed and settled Mrs Ns claim in a fair and reasonable way.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs N held, alongside the policy schedule 
which confirmed Mrs N paid for the Standard level of cover. The terms and conditions 
explain for the level of cover, under the section titled Treatment periods that We pay vet 
fees for 12 months from the first date of treatment or until your vet fee limit shown on your 
policy schedule is used up. 
Ive also seen the letter RSA sent to Mrs N in August 2020 which states clearly The 12-
month time limit from the first date of treatment for Urinary Infection & Constipation ends on 
03/06/2021 & 02/01/2021 respectively. So, I think RSA made it reasonably clear to Mrs N 
that she would only be able to make a claim for further UTIs up until 3 June 2021. And I 
think they acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when setting this time limit.
Ive seen that the second claim Mrs N raised, the one which she has complained about, was 
raised on 4 August 2021, which is two months after the time limit expired. So, I think RSA 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim on this 
basis.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think RSA acted fairly when 
doing so. I think its important to note the terms and conditions do not mention the need for 
two instances of a condition or illness to be linked, to qualify for the 12-month time limit. So, I 
dont think RSA needed to reconsider the claim when Mrs N disputed the claim decline.But Im glad to see RSA took Mrs Ns concerns on board and gave her vet the opportunity to 
explain why they didnt believe the two UTIs were linked and so, why both claims should be 
upheld. But Ive looked through the e-mail trail between RSA and Mrs Ns vet. And while I 
think Mrs Ns vet provided an initial rationale, I cant see Mrs Ns vet responded to RSAs 
follow up questions surrounding the initial cause for each UTI.
So, without this, I dont think I can say RSA acted unfairly when they relied on their own in-
house vets opinion that it was likely both UTIs were linked to the steroids B had been taking 
as there was an link between the two which had been accepted professionally. And so, I 
think they acted both fairly and reasonably when declining the claim and because of this, I 
dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs N was hoping for. And I want to recognise the 
confusion I think Mrs N wouldve felt when she disputed the claim initially as from the e-mails 
Ive read, there was a lack of clarity on whether the claim was declined due to the time limit 
or because the UTI was classed as a pre-existing condition. 
But I do think RSA acknowledged this confusion and responded within a reasonable amount 
of time, explaining clearly why the claim was declined. And Im satisfied the claim was 
always declined for this reason from the evidence Ive seen. And even if it wasnt, I dont 
think the way in which the claim decline was communicated would, or should, alter the claim 
decision thats been reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman