DRN-3299675
The complaint
Miss C complained that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) trading as GeorgeBanco.com lent 
to her irresponsibly and provided her with unaffordable lending.
What happened
ELL provided loans to Miss C as follows:
Date 
takenCapital 
loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
August 
2018£2,500 18 months £198.99 £3581.82 Paid February 
2019 
February
2019£3,500 30 months £188.44 £5,653.20. unknown
When Miss C complained to ELL it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that ELL 
shouldnt have provided these loans. Our investigator set out directions indicating what 
ELL should do to put things right. 
Miss C accepted our investigators view. ELL disagreed. It mainly said that it wasnt 
satisfied that our investigator had properly explained why she was upholding the complaint. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Id like to reassure ELL that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator and I am upholding Miss Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information ELL gathered when it agreed to provide these loans. 
Alongside asking Miss C what her regular outgoings were each month, ELL also carried 
out its own credit checks to understand Miss Cs credit history and current credit 
commitments and it took steps to verify that her declared income was around £1,200 per 
month.  
ELL worked out that Miss C shouldve had disposable income left after paying for these 
loans on top of all her other monthly spending  so it felt that both loans were affordable 
for her. 
But, whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think ELL took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Miss Cs overall financial situation and the 
likelihood of her being able to pay its loans in a sustainable manner. 
I think ELL should have been concerned to see that when Miss C applied for loan 1, it was 
evident that the amount she would need to pay to service the existing credit commitments 
ELL saw in the credit report it acquired alongside its new loan would cost Miss C at least 
35% of her verified income, even if she used some of the loan to pay credit card debt.
And Miss C had told ELL that the loan was also for home improvements  so it knew that it 
would likely add to her overall indebtedness. 
I think its fair to say that Miss C needed to pay such a significant portion of her income 
towards credit I dont think ELL was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances 
that Miss C would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. So I dont think 
ELL shouldve provided loan 1.
The fact that Miss C made the loan repayments on time doesnt mean that she was able to 
do so in a way that was sustainably affordable. 
I think her increasing dependency on credit was borne out by the fact that she topped up her 
borrowing when she took out loan 2 which she used to clear the outstanding balance on loan 
1 and provide her with some extra cash to buy a new bed. 
The credit checks ELL carried out showed that Miss C didnt appear to have used loan 1 to 
repay any credit card debt  both her credit cards were close to their account limits. She had 
opened new accounts since taking out loan 1 and her total indebtedness had increased. 
Miss C was already committed to paying around a third of her income towards supporting 
her existing credit debt. ELL was aware that this loan would add to her overall debt and 
boost the amount of her spending on credit each month. In my opinion, as a responsible 
lender, ELL shouldve realised that Miss C would likely struggle to repay this loan  
especially bearing in mind the 30 month loan term.
Thinking about all the information ELL had gathered, I cant reasonably say that it made a 
fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think ELL was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Miss C. So it shouldnt 
have provided it and ELL needs to put things right.
So, I am upholding Miss Cs complaint that she should not have been given either of these 
loans. 
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that ELL should pay any additional redress. Miss C hasnt 
commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think ELL acted unfairly 
towards Miss C in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss C to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Miss C shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount she borrowed.
ELL should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss C received as a result of having been 
given loans 1 and 2. The repayments Miss C made should be deducted from this 
amount
if this results in Miss C having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then ELL should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss C
whilst its fair that Miss Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So ELL should remove any negative 
information recorded on Miss Cs credit file regarding loans 1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) trading as 
GeorgeBanco.com to take the steps I've set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman