DRN-3642516
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a capital investment bond, failed to 
provide on-going advice, and didnt recommend any fund switches. In particular she says the 
bond wasnt included in a financial review in 2008 which has impacted on her tax position.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party. For ease, Ill refer to everything as if 
its been said by Mrs M.
What happened
In June 1987 Mrs M took out an investment bond. Mrs M initially complained that the bond 
had been mis-sold, but HSBC said there was no evidence that it had advised her to take out 
the bond, and she accepted this.
But she says the bond shouldve been included in financial reviews when she met with an 
HSBC advisor. She says, if it had been included in the 2008 review, HSBC wouldve 
suggested encashing it. Instead it recommended encashing assets which resulted in a 
capital gains tax (CGT) liability. She wants HSBC to pay that liability. She says her over-
arching objective in 2008 was to reduce, or eliminate, her estates liability to inheritance tax 
(IHT), by gifting her assets. If the bond had been included in her list of assets in 2008, 
HSBC wouldve recommended it was encashed and gifted. She did this in 2018 once shed 
discovered she owned the bond, but this may result in an IHT liability which she wants 
HSBC to agree to pay.
HSBC said the bond was most likely taken out following a postal application. It said that, 
whilst it was documented to be the bonds servicing agent, there was no evidence that it 
was obliged to give ongoing advice about the bond, and no evidence that it received 
commission. It said that in 2008 it was Mrs Ms responsibility to make sure the bond was 
included in the review. And that it didnt advise Mrs M which assets should be sold to raise 
the money she requested.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that HSBC sold the policy to Mrs M, or that there was any agreement or obligation 
for it to review the bond or provide ongoing advice. He thought the 2008 review was 
specifically to consider the requested withdrawal from her investment portfolio and that there 
was nothing to show that Mrs M had asked for the bond to be included in this review. He 
didnt think HSBCs advisors would necessarily have been aware of the bond unless Mrs M 
told them about it.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
She accepts that the investment was her own decision, taken without HSBCs advice.
The 2008 review was to review Mrs Ms IHT position, but HSBC failed to include the 
bond in the list of her assets. The advice HSBC gave was flawed, because not all of 
Mrs Ms assets were listed.
HSBC was the servicing agent since the bond was taken out and theres evidence that it 
received reports about the bond, so it shouldve been aware of it.
HSBC was the only financial advisor used by Mrs M since 1987. It shouldve kept a 
record of all her investments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to respond to every 
single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
HSBC is not required to keep records indefinitely and there are limited records available 
from the time of the sale, and from the 2008 review. In cases like this, where the evidence is 
incomplete, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Both parties agree that HSBC did not recommend the capital investment bond to Mrs M in 
1987. So HSBC wasnt responsible for ensuring the bond was suitable for Mrs M and 
I havent considered this further.
Im not persuaded that HSBC was responsible for providing on-going advice about the bond. 
It didnt advise Mrs M to take it out, and it follows that its unlikely it agreed to provide any 
on-going advice about its suitability. Theres also no evidence that it received on-going 
commission from the bond provider. If Mrs M had wanted advice about the bond  either 
whether investment in the underlying funds should be switched, or whether the bond should 
be retained or encashed, I find she would have needed to specifically request this from 
HSBC.
In 2008, Mrs M and her husband met with an HSBC financial advisor. The review was at 
Mrs Ms request because she was looking to withdraw money from her investment 
management portfolio to gift to her children because she wanted to reduce her and her 
husbands IHT liabilities. Taking into account gifts Mrs M and her husband had already made 
to their children, the HSBC advisor concluded that, if there were no changes to their assets 
that your estate would be virtually free [from] inheritance tax by January 2012. On this 
basis, and the fact that a) any withdrawal from Mrs Ms investment management agreement 
would likely result in a capital gains tax liability; and b) Mrs M said she continued to require a 
£3,000 withdrawal from the portfolio each month to supplement her income and the 
proposed capital withdrawal would significantly reduce the capital value, the advisor didnt 
recommend going ahead with the withdrawal.
But when the advisor listed Mrs Ms assets, the capital investment bond wasnt included. The 
cash-in value of the bond at this time was around £155,000 and the value paid on the death 
of Mrs M would have been around £123,000. If the bond had been included in the list of 
Mrs Ms assets, HSBC would most likely have concluded that her estate would incur an IHT 
liability. And its possible that it would have recommended, or Mrs M may have decided, to 
encash the bond and gift the money to her children.Mrs M feels strongly that HSBC was aware of the bond, and it was its responsibility to make 
sure the bond was included in her list of assets  on an on-going basis and in 2008 in 
particular. Ive considered this very carefully. With the exception of annual reviews of 
Mrs Ms investment management agreement, there was no agreement for HSBC to provide 
on-going advice about the bond and no agreement to provide general financial reviews. The 
reviews that took place were at Mrs Ms request, including the 2008 review. Whilst HSBC 
would have kept records of previous reviews for the required regulatory period, I dont find 
there was any obligation on HSBC to keep a live record of Mrs Ms assets. When it carried 
out the review in 2008, the advisor may have been aware of some of her assets, but it was 
up to Mrs M to disclose all of her assets and to ensure the list was complete.
Mrs M says HSBC was documented as being the servicing agent for the bond and that it 
received statements. HSBC hasnt been able to explain what its role as servicing agent 
entailed or might have involved. But, as noted earlier, Im satisfied its role didnt extend to 
providing proactive or on-going advice about this investment. And, whilst there is evidence 
that HSBC may have received annual statements at some point during the lifetime of the 
bond, it looks like it stopped receiving these sometime after 2005. So Im not persuaded that 
in 2008 HSBC should have been aware Mrs M held the bond without her telling it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman