DRN-3322523
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly recorded a default against him following 
missed payments towards his credit card.
What happened
Mr P holds a credit card with Lloyds. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, hed make monthly 
repayments towards his card in cash by visiting a Lloyds branch. 
In February 2021 Lloyds wrote to Mr P, explaining theyd ended his agreement and passed 
his debt to their recoveries team, as hed failed to maintain payments despite them sending 
him several arrears notices and issuing a default notice in September 2020. 
Mr P contacted Lloyds and explained hed been unable to maintain payments as Lloyds 
branches had been closed at times during the pandemic, and he doesnt use online banking. 
He said he hadnt received the arrears letters as he no longer lives at the address Lloyds 
held for him, and that it was only after being forwarded the February letter that he realised 
the status of the account. He said he paid the full balance at this point to the third-party the 
debt had been passed to, and asked Lloyds to remove the default, but Lloyds declined. So 
Mr P complained. 
Lloyds said they sent Mr P several letters, over a number of months, setting out the 
consequences of failing to maintain payments. And theyve said these were sent to the 
address they held on file for Mr P. They said they received no response to these letters, and 
had received no notification of Mr P having changed his address. They said that during this 
time, Mr Ps account was not brought up to date. Lloyds agreed that theyd mark the default 
as satisfied when the full balance was cleared, but they said they wouldnt remove the 
default from his credit file as it was recorded correctly. Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his 
complaint to our service.  
An investigator considered Mr Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
thought Lloyds were entitled to default the account when they did, as they had given Mr P 
sufficient notice his account was in arrears, and had made clear their intention to default the 
account should Mr P not pay. He also felt there were other ways Mr P couldve made 
payments, such as over the phone, or by registering for online banking.
But Mr P remained unhappy, and said that his credit card had remained within its limit, so he 
thinks Lloyds were wrong to default him. The complaints now been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start with, I think it would be useful if I set out a little detail around how credit cards 
operate in general, and how banks will usually report payments to credit reference agencies. 
Further information on this will be set out in Mr Ps terms and conditions. 
When there is an outstanding balance on a credit card, customers are required to; keep that 
balance below a certain level  this will be referred to as their credit limit  and; make 
monthly repayments towards that balance. The minimum repayment required will usually be 
set out within their monthly statement. Should a customer fail to do either of these, banks will 
report this as adverse information to credit reference agencies. 
Ive provided below a summary of payments made to Mr Ps credit card between June 2019 
and January 2021, during which period there was an outstanding balance on the card. 
Date Amount
03/06/2019 £60
03/07/2019 £160
03/09/2019 £350
03/10/2019 £170
01/11/2019 £170
03/03/2020 £700
01/05/2020 £300
03/09/2020 £200
01/01/2021 £200
The above table shows, that over a period of around 20 months, Mr P wouldve been 
required to make the minimum repayment towards his card each month. Yet during this time, 
only nine payments were made, which means around 11 were missed. 
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that a number of letters were sent to Mr P throughout 
2020 informing him of these arrears and the potential consequences of failing to maintain 
payments. And he was issued with a default notice on 12 September 2020 that explained he 
was required to pay £362.27 by 30 September 2020, or a default would be issued. Yet 
despite this, payments were still not made as required. 
Mr P has argued that the above letters were likely sent to his old address where his 
ex-partner lives, and this could be why he didnt receive them. But he also said in his initial 
call to us that he doesnt dispute he was sent letters from Lloyds during this period. He said:
obviously they sent me other letters, but I didnt get them, didnt see them, didnt open 
them, its probably my fault.
He also confirmed that hed regularly receive post to his old address, which his ex-partner 
would forward to him around every two weeks.  And he hadnt notified Lloyds of his address 
change. Lloyds has demonstrated that several letters were sent to this address, and Mr P 
has said its possible that he just didnt open them. So, Im satisfied Lloyds had provided 
Mr P sufficient notification of their intentions, yet Mr P still failed to pay in accordance with 
the account requirements. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds acted reasonably in defaulting his 
account at this time. 
Mr P has said he didnt pay as he prefers to visit a branch and pay in cash, and this was 
difficult during the pandemic. Hes also told us he doesnt have online banking set up for this 
credit card.
While I appreciate the point Mr Ps made, and that things in general would likely have been 
more difficult for Mr P and many customers during the Covid-19 pandemic, this doesnt 
remove Mr Ps obligation to maintain payments on his account. And Im satisfied there were other methods by which Mr P could have made his repayments, such as setting up online 
banking, or calling Lloyds to pay over the phone. 
Mr P also told this service that he was fully aware he hadnt made payments towards the 
card, but just intended to catch up at a later date. And hes highlighted that at no point had 
he exceeded his credit limit. He feels that as hes now cleared the full balance, the default 
should no longer appear on his credit file, and his file should be clean, rather than the default 
remaining on his credit file for up to six years.
But unfortunately for Mr P, this is not how credit works. And while I dont doubt that Mr P had 
good intentions, and I appreciate hes upset the default will remain on his credit file, Lloyds 
were not wrong to wrong to record the default, as it is an accurate reflection of how his 
account was maintained. 
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think the default should be removed. And I think that Lloyds agreement to 
mark it as satisfied, if he hes now paid the full balance, is the correct course of action.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman