DRN-2809231
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain how about Soteria Insurance Limited dealt with a claim they made 
under their motor insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a summary 
here. Ill then go on to focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Mr M had an accident in his car. He drove over an open manhole cover in the dark and this 
caused significant damage to the car. Mr and Mrs M were given a courtesy car after four 
days. During this time Mr M had taken annual leave from work as he had no way of getting 
there. 
Repairs to the vehicle have taken a considerable amount of time, partly due to the repairing 
garage being closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic but mainly because a part needed to 
repair the car was unavailable and had to be ordered from the manufacturer. Liability has 
been admitted by the responsible party, but no costs have been claimed as the car hadnt 
been repaired.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Soteria about how long the claim was taking and the poor 
customer service they had experienced. They wanted Soteria to either repair the car quickly 
or deem it to be a total loss and make a payment to them for the value of the car. Mr and 
Mrs M also said they wanted Soteria to pay compensation to them for the anguish caused by 
the accident, an amount to cover the annual leave Mr M had to take, reimbursement for the 
amount they have paid out in car tax, insurance and breakdown insurance for the time they 
havent had the car and a refund for the additional amount they have been charged on the 
policy premium due to the open claim on the policy.  
Soteria looked into the complaint and accepted it hadnt kept Mr and Mrs M updated on the 
progress of the claim. It offered them £50 compensation. It said the replacement part needed 
was due to be delivered soon so repairs to the car should then be able to take place. Mr and 
Mrs M were unhappy with Soterias response and brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. She thought 
Soteria hadnt provided a good level of service and that the compensation amount should be 
increased to £100. She explained Soteria were entitled to decide if the car should be 
repaired or not and she was satisfied the delays in the repair taking place was due to 
matters outside its control. She said she didnt think Soteria were liable for any of the 
additional costs Mr and Mrs M had claimed as these would be deemed to be uninsured 
losses and therefore something that should be reclaimed from the third party. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs M have strong views about what has happened. I want to assure 
them Ive read and considered everything theyve said very carefully but my decision 
focusses on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it. 
My consideration of this claim only goes to the date of Soterias final response dated 
12 August 2020. I will not be considering anything that happened after that date. If Mr and 
Mrs M have further reason to be unhappy, they must in the first instance raise those issues 
with Soteria.
Mr and Mrs M have a brokered motor insurance policy with additional benefits added on. 
This means that different sections of the insurance are provided by different insurers. The 
broker is usually the business that directs the consumer to the most appropriate section of 
cover based on what they need to claim for. This is relevant here as Soteria wont have 
known what other cover Mr and Mrs M had  for example courtesy car cover or motor legal 
expenses. So for this reason, I wont be holding it responsible for the fact Mr and Mrs M 
werent informed of these policies or told they could make use of them. If Mr and Mrs M have 
any concerns in this regard they would need to be directed to the broker of the policy. 
Ill address each of Mr and Mrs Ms main concerns under the headings below.
Delays in getting a courtesy car.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy with Soteria only provides a courtesy car when their car is being 
repaired. Also, as is standard industry practice, if the car is declared a total loss i.e. the 
insurer choses to pay the value of the car rather than repair it, no courtesy car is provided. 
Up until the point the car is assessed, and a decision made on it, there is no requirement on 
Soteria to provide one. I understand Mr and Mrs M didnt get a courtesy car until four days 
after the accident, so Ive looked at what happened in that time. 
Soteria have provided notes from the garage the car was taken to which suggests Mr M was 
initially offered a courtesy car but declined it. The notes from 11 February say advised 
customer that the veh[sic] is a ptl-he is happy not to have a c/c just wants us to fast track the 
assessment through asap 
Mrs M has questioned if this conversation happened, however I see no reason to doubt the 
notes from the garage. However, the notes do suggest to me that there was some thought 
initially that the car may be a total loss and as such this needed to be confirmed.  As I 
mentioned above, until an assessment is completed, strictly speaking no courtesy car had to 
be provided. From what I can see from the timeline of events, the car was deemed 
repairable on 2 March. There was a delay due to queries being made with the manufacturer 
of the vehicle. 
However, in the meantime, Mr M requested a courtesy car and one was delivered on day 
four by the garage. There is nothing to confirm why it did this, but I can only assume it was 
the case, it knew at that point its assessment was going to take a little longer than normal. 
Ive no doubt it was inconvenient for Mr and Mrs M not to have a car, but I cant say, based 
on the terms and conditions of the policy, that Soteria acted incorrectly here. 
The fact Mr M had to take time off work wouldnt be something Soteria wouldnt be 
responsible for as it is a consequence of the accident. This would therefore be a cost Mr and 
Mrs M would need to reclaim from the at fault third party. Delays in the repair of the car
I understand repairs to the car were delayed not only by the Covid-19 lockdown which meant 
the garages were shut. But also, due the availability of an essential part needed to enable 
repairs to the car to be completed.
I dont think in this instance the delays to the car being repaired were within Soterias control. 
There have been many impacts related to the Covid-19 pandemic, businesses being shut, 
and parts availability are unfortunately things that have been impacted. I can see the garage 
notified Soteria of the position and that regular updates were being requested on the part. 
Again, while I accept it would have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs M not to have their own 
car, I am mindful of the fact they were kept mobile in a courtesy car during this time.  There 
was no requirement for that car to be like for like, as they would have been provided with 
whatever the garage had available.
At the time the Soterias final response was issued in August 2020, the part for the car was 
due to be delivered the following month. As previously mentioned, if this didnt happen and 
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with anything after that date, they are free to raise those 
concerns with Soteria for it to consider. 
Time taken to establish liability and conclude the claim
Soteria have acknowledged there was a delay in contacting the third party. From looking at 
the file the business sent I can see this is because the claim wasnt set up correctly on its 
system. Soteria sent a letter to the third party at the start of July and I can see liability was 
admitted directly to Mr and Mrs M after they also contacted the third party.
While liability has been admitted the claim wont be closed until the insurers outlay has been 
recovered. And, this cant happen until the repairs to the car have taken place. So the delay 
in contacting the third party hasnt impacted the length of the claim.
In the meantime, to reflect the fact Mr M was not responsible for the accident, Soteria has 
updated the external claims database to reflect this fact.  This means that should Mr M 
insure elsewhere he will be able to correctly say he was involved in a non-fault accident. I 
think this was a reasonable action for Soteria to take.
Policy renewal
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy the cost of their policy at renewal went up. I realise this would 
have been quite a shock to them. Insurers take lots of things into account when deciding 
how much to charge for a policy, and previous claims is one of those things. I cant therefore 
say this is down to anything Soteria has done wrong. From what I can see it has followed the 
normal process I would have expected it to, and it has updated the external database to 
reflect the fact the claim was Mr Ms fault. 
Mr and Mrs M would be able to approach their broker and ask it to find out if they are due a 
refund on any of their policy premiums due to the fact the database has been updated. 
However, it may be the case that any insurer they are with wont choose to do this until the 
claim is fully concluded. 
Out of pocket expenses
Mr and Mrs M have said Soteria should be held responsible for many of their out of pocket 
expenses. However, I dont agree this is the case. Most of the expenses they have cited are attributable to the claim itself and therefore would 
be something Mr and Mrs M would need to look into recovering from the third party. Soteria 
wouldnt usually be responsible for doing this for them. This would include costs such as 
Mr Ms annual leave -  as he had to take time off work due to not having a car, the petrol that 
was in their vehicle, potentially the loss of road tax and breakdown insurance.
The mental trauma Mr M has outlined he has suffered because of the accident would also be 
something he would need to look to pursue the third party for compensation for.
Mr and Mrs M would need to seek their own independent advice on how they could do this.
The cost of insurance is something Mr and Mrs M would have still needed to pay as once a 
claim is made the full policy premium is due to the insurer. Also, the insurance policy 
continued to cover Mr and Mrs M for any loss or damage caused to the courtesy car they 
were given. 
Poor service
Soteria has acknowledged there were times when it didnt provide a good service to Mr and 
Mrs M. It has specifically mentioned the delay in contacting the third-party regarding liability 
and the time taken to update the external claims database. 
Our investigator mentioned she thought Soteria could have done more to keep Mr and 
Mrs M updated on what was happening and Im mindful theyve also explained there was 
some confusion at the start with the garage accepting their vehicle. 
Overall, having considered everything I think £100 compensation fairly reflects the trouble 
and upset Mr and Mrs M were caused by Soterias actions. So, Ill be directing it to pay this 
amount to Mr and Mrs M. Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt cash Soterias previous 
cheque so Soteria will need to take this into account when arranging a further payment to 
them.
Mr and Mrs M have outlined how the whole matter has impacted them. However, in this 
decision I have to concentrate only on the actions of Soteria, not the natural inconvenience 
and frustration caused by the incident itself. Or, the claims process which can involve 
several different businesses, depending on what part of the brokered policy is utilised. 
For the reasons outlined above I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I will be directing 
Soteria to pay them compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Soteria Insurance 
Limited. I direct it to pay Mr and Mrs M a total of £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman