DRN-4060010
The complaint
M has complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG. They arent happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under their Commercial Residential Buildings Insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to UKI includes its agents and Ive mainly referred to M in 
this decision as opposed to their representative.
What happened
M made a claim under their buildings insurance policy after a retaining wall collapsed. UKI 
looked into the claim for M and eventually decided that the claim wasnt covered as it 
thought the damage to the wall was caused by wear and tear which was excluded under the 
policy. As M wasnt happy about the decline of the claim and the poor service they received 
M complained to UKI. 
UKI looked into Ms complaint and agreed its service could have been better and that it 
delayed in dealing with Ms complaint and offered £300 by way of compensation for its 
failings. But it maintained its position that the claim should be declined because of wear and 
tear, which was excluded under the policy, so M complained to this Service believing the 
recent heavy rainfall before the collapse had clearly affected the wall suggesting storm 
damage. 
Our investigator looked into things for M and partly upheld their complaint. She thought UKIs 
offer of £300 in acknowledgement of its failings was fair. And having looked at whether the 
collapse of the wall had been affected by storm damage she didnt think this was the 
dominant cause of damage as it would be excluded under the wear and tear exclusion. But 
she thought, from the evidence provided by the various experts, that the damage to the 
retaining wall may well have been caused by flood and so should be considered by UKI.
M accepted the investigators position, but UKI disagreed, so the matter has been passed to 
me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators position that there is a possibility that Ms 
claim for the retaining wall was affected by flood and so it should consider the claim under 
the flood peril, and that its compensation offer (£300) seems fair. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to UKI, but Ill explain why.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
I dont propose to go over whether the claim was storm related or not as it appears to be 
accepted by both sides that this wasnt the predominant cause of damage to the wall. I note 
UKI has looked to go over this in response to the investigators view, and whether there was 
a storm around the time of claim or not, but I wont rehearse the arguments here as it isnt 
relevant given the accepted position. Although there clearly is an argument for storm 
conditions and a period of heavy rain has been identified. 
So, Ill focus on the key issue, the decline of Ms claim for wear and tear. I can understand 
UKIs position, but I agree with our investigator that I think it should reconsider the claim 
under the flood peril. 
In forming this decision Ive considered the further points UKI has made in response to our 
investigator and of course the relevant law when reaching this decision. And I accept that 
UKI can decline the claim as the policy doesnt cover loss or damage caused by wear and 
tear. But I have to be satisfied that it acted fairly in fully considering the claim.
The initial surveyor that was appointed by UKI (who I note was appointed to consider the 
original claim from Ms neighbour so there could be a conflict of interest here) suggested that 
the damage occurred due to landslip but as a result of the wall failing. And this was caused 
by a gradual deterioration of the wall over time and while there may have been a period of 
cold weather they didnt consider this to be storm damage. So, they argued the claim wasnt 
covered as there wasnt any cover for wear and tear or landslip.
Ms own surveyor suggested the immediate cause of the failure of the retaining wall was 
unclear. But did suggest it could be that a severe frost in early January, which followed a 
period of heavy rain, could have been the trigger for the collapse. And goes on to say that if 
the cause was severe frost then this would be excluded under the policy as well.
Another report was commissioned by UKI as there was a dispute around the original 
engineers position and incorrect information, including the correct policy, had been relied on 
so a second opinion was required. And he argued that there wasnt any evidence of 
subsidence or landslip. 
However, he highlighted the wall was originally built around 1900 and that there wasnt any 
evidence of drainage or weep holes (which is to be expected given the period the wall was 
built). And he thought that the clearing of mature trees above the retaining wall would have 
had an impact on the soil dynamics and the water retention  in effect water previously 
removed by the trees could have moved down to the wall affecting the stability of the wall.
As such, this opens the possibility, as our investigator outlined citing the relevant caselaw, 
that a flood could have occurred gradually through a steady build-up of water. Ms wall 
wouldnt be expected to have weep holes given its age and so I agree that a claim under the 
flood peril should be considered, and further investigation undertaken. The surveyor clearly 
suggested the water, which would ordinarily have been soaked up by the trees, had moved 
to the soil and over time affected the wall. So, there was a clear and steady build-up of water 
over a period of time and the surveyor also seems to agree with M that lack of maintenance 
didnt have a role in the wall failing.
I know there was a dispute between the findings of UKIs two surveyors but Im more 
persuaded by the second engineer here. I say this as UKI clearly had doubt themselves in 
appointing the second surveyor and the second report is fuller in detail and more persuasive. 
So, I think it is fair to rely on the second report. Ive considered UKIs further representations, and I do understand its position and that some 
of the consideration of the possibility of flood is retrospective and I accept that the first 
surveyor to attend didnt suggest flood. But UKI hasnt engaged with him for further 
information or opinion about this possibility. And it is clear that UKIs first surveyor could 
have considered the claim and the site of the retaining wall in more detail which would have 
helped here. His report is lacking in detail, and he only witnessed the damage to the 
retaining wall from a distance  although he may have seen the wall from the neighbouring 
side as he had also considered a claim for their insurer. Plus, M has highlighted differences 
in the report he provided for his neighbour in relation to the impact the collapsing wall had on 
their side. 
Overall, I think there is a distinct possibility that the retaining walls collapse could have been 
affected by flood. So, I think it is only fair and reasonable to reconsider the claim under the 
flood peril now. 
Finally, I agree the service UKI has provided hasnt been up to the required standard. UKI 
couldve ensured it kept M up to date and the frustration and difficulty caused by looking to 
rely on incorrect policy documentation clearly caused inconvenience, delay and impacted the 
claim handling. But I agree with our investigator that UKIs offer of £300 compensation for 
this seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance 
Limited trading as NIG to reconsider the claim under the flood peril and pay £300 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman