DRN-3129055
The complaint
Mr W complains that Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers gave him unsuitable advice to
transfer his defined benefit Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a personal pension
plan.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 September 2021. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. 
In summary, Mr W was a member of the OPS that is the subject of the complaint from July 
1981 to October 1988. He was made redundant, had found temporary employment and was 
planning on being self-employed from then on. He met with an adviser from Annetts and 
Orchard who recommended that he start and make regular contributions to a new personal 
pension, and transfer his existing OPS benefits to it.
I said I hadnt seen documentation outlining Mr Ws circumstances at the time he transferred, 
or a record of the reasons why he was advised to transfer. However my understanding was 
that Mr W was in his early thirties, and he had no other pension provision. The transfer value 
of £5,444 was transferred to the personal pension in June 1990. Mr W subsequently 
transferred the pension to another pension provider in 2005.
Mr W complained to Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers about the transfer in December
2017. The complaint was subsequently referred to us. Annetts & Orchard didnt think that the
complaint had been referred to us within the relevant time limits. One of my ombudsman
colleagues issued a decision saying we had jurisdiction to consider the complaint on 6
November 2019.
The merits of the complaint were subsequently considered by two of our investigators. The
investigators thought that the complaint should be upheld. However Annetts and Orchard 
hadnt agreed with the investigators findings and the complaint was passed to me to 
consider. 
Annetts & Orchard had said that it still didnt think that the complaint had been made within 
the relevant time limits. I set out the reasons why I thought the complaint had been referred 
in time. And I went onto explain why I thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.
I said that although there was only limited documentation available from the time, there was 
some information supplied by the OPS that provided details of the benefits that Mr W had 
accrued in the scheme on leaving it on 31 October 1988.
This showed that the pension from the OPS was £1,490 per annum. Part of this pension 
related to GMP (Guaranteed Minimum Pension). It said the GMP part would increase at the 
rate of 7.5% per annum from the date Mr W left the scheme to age 60. And (some) of the 
non-GMP part would increase at the lesser of 5% per annum or the rise in the retail price 
index from the date Mr W left the scheme to age 60.
Mr W had also provided a copy of a recent letter from the original OPS administrators that 
showed the split of the Pre and Post 88 GMP at date of leaving. I said the GMP would have 
revalued to approximately £3,778 at age 60. 
I said the non-GMP element of the pension (£1,058) was also made up of two parts that    
revalued at different rates during the period up to age 60. I said that on reasonable 
assumptions £553 would revalue to £2,390. And the remaining £505 wouldnt revalue. This 
would result in a total estimated pension at age 60, the OPS Normal Retirement Date 
(NRD), of £6,673.
The illustrations that were provided at the time of the sale gave estimates of what might be
payable from the personal pension at age 60 using rates of growth prescribed by the
industry regulator at that time. These projected a total pension from the personal pension at 
age 60 of £2,725 at the lower growth rate, and £9,694 at the higher rate.
Different parts of the pension from the OPS increased in payment and provided spouses 
benefits on death. Similarly, parts of the personal pension increased in payment and 
provided spouses benefits on death. However the majority  relating to the
non-GMP element  didnt provide for any increases in payment or a spouses pension.
I said it wasnt therefore straightforward to make a like for like comparison of the potential 
benefits that might have been provided by the personal pension to those that might have 
been provided by the OPS at NRD. So I thought Mr W would have relied on the adviser to 
explain the position and enable him to make an informed decision.
I said although it was difficult to reconstruct an accurate comparison, I thought looking
back at historical annuity rates, broadly speaking, a personal pension providing similar 
benefits to the OPS would be significantly less than the level single life pension - around 
60% of the single life level pension depending on the rate of increase in payment.
I said on this basis, the personal pension would have been estimated to provide a pension 
that more closely mirrored the OPS of £1,494 and £5,496 (at the lower and higher rates of 
return). I said the protected rights element of the personal pension would have provided 
some increase in payment and a spouses pension  so these figures were still not directly 
comparable. But the protected rights element was a relatively small proportion of the total 
personal pension.
So I thought that although the assumptions made were open to some movement, what was 
key was that it appeared that even if the higher rate of return was achieved of 13% 
throughout the life of the plan (which wouldnt have appeared as unrealistic as it might 
today), it was unlikely Mr W would materially improve on the pension benefits that the OPS 
would otherwise have provided. It appeared he would have needed to achieve something in 
excess of the 13% to materially improve on the benefits estimated from the OPS. So I said 
the question was why transfer?
Annetts & Orchard had said Mr W transferred because he had concerns about his OPS after
the sponsoring employer was taken over. And he was adamant that he wanted to transfer
out. It said Mr W wanted full control over his pension arrangements and a personal pension
would provide more flexibility. It also said the possibility of using the pension as a mortgage
repayment vehicle was discussed. And that Mr W was concerned that his OPS pension
would be lost on his death.
I said I hadnt seen a copy of any contemporaneous documentation that showed these were 
the reasons why Mr W transferred  for example a suitability letter or equivalent. So it wasnt entirely clear to me how the firm had arrived at its conclusions. However, I said even if these 
were considerations at that time, I thought these factors needed to be weighed up against 
the significant risks incurred on transfer. 
Mr W could have left his benefits in the OPS and transferred them out closer to retirement 
date if he thought the flexibility offered by a personal pension was beneficial given his 
circumstances at that time. Although there may have been some risk in remaining a member 
of the OPS in terms of death benefits and security, I thought the risks presented.by 
transferring to the personal pension far outweighed those risks. The OPS was with a well-
known well-established firm, and I wasnt aware of any concerns about its solvency. I 
thought if the adviser had looked into any concerns Mr W may have had with the scheme he 
could have framed those risks appropriately.
A fact find that was completed in April 1996 (and updated in 2003) recorded that Mr Ws only 
pension was the personal pension he had with this provider (which as well as the transfer 
payment included regular contributions). It appeared he had two endowment policies and 
some money in a building society. But he had no other investments. His attitude to risk was 
recorded as balanced at that time.
The pension transferred from the OPS was estimated to provide an income of around £6,600
at age 60. Mr W was in his early thirties, so he had time to build up further pension provision.
And he had started making regular contributions to the personal pension. But he had no
other pension provision at that time. I thought the potential £6,600 at age 60 from the OPS
would have appeared to be a significant income at the time it was transferred in 1990. So
transferring a largely guaranteed income to a product where the income at retirement was
dependent on investment performance and the prevailing annuity rates at retirement was a
risk in itself.
Given it appeared that an investment return of over 13% per annum was required to improve
on what Mr W already had largely secured in the OPS, I thought the transfer presented
significant risks. I said my view was that Mr W didnt have the capacity to accept such risks 
with this pension given he had limited other pension provision at the time.
Taking all the above factors into account, I said I didnt think the advice to transfer was 
suitable. I considered the transfer presented too great a risk given Mr Ws circumstances 
when the advice was given.
So I said my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I went on to set out how I thought Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers should calculate and 
pay Mr W fair compensation. 
I asked Mr W and Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers to provide any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Annetts & Orchard didnt accept my provisional decision. It said, in summary, that in 1996 
when the pension review was conducted it was extremely thorough in its process for inviting 
all of its clients that had transferred final salary benefits for a review. The reviews were 
outsourced, and it paid compensation on those cases where a loss was shown. It said for a 
small business it had been a big project, and at the front of its minds during 1996.
It said it couldnt understand how I had arrived at the conclusion that although Mr W may 
have signed a declaration in April 1996, this didnt suggest that he ought to have been 
alerted that he had cause for complaint at that time. He had been sent the pension review 
invitation only a few days before hed signed the declaration. It was already conducting reviews for other clients. It was the biggest single thing going on its office. It had a meeting 
with Mr W and it was clearly more likely than not that it discussed the pension review with 
him before then asking him to sign the form. Mr W had signed to agree he was given the 
opportunity to review his pension transfer like its other clients at the time.
Annetts and Orchard said it had explained many times how the copies of the pension review 
letters it had provided had an address on that Mr W hadnt yet moved to. On completion of 
the review in 1999 it had checked each client file and where letters were missing it reprinted 
them. Mr W had moved address since the original review, and the letters were printed with 
his 1999 address.
It had sent a letter dated 26 April 1996 to Mr W about increasing his pension contributions. 
This was 26 days after its second pension review letter and just under two months after the 
first. It said this proved it had Mr Ws correct address at the time and it was likely he received 
the pension review invite. It said if this explanation wasnt accepted the inference was it had 
made the letters up. However it said if this was the case why would it have skipped Mr W, an 
active and engaged client, yet offered reviews and paid out compensation to other clients. It 
said only one other client had complained about pension transfer advice in 30 years, 
evidencing the thoroughness of its pension review.
Annetts and Orchard also said 
In 2020 Mr W had confirmed that he had subsequently transferred his pension to 
another arrangement mainly for flexibility of drawdown in retirement. It said it 
appeared flexibility was still a priority as it was in 1988.
When it had arranged a mortgage for Mr W in April 1988 hed been put on a 
temporary employed contract  such were the difficulties his employer was facing at 
the time. He was made redundant five months later. It said this showed how Mr W 
viewed his employer and its future prospects of being able to fund the pension 
scheme  he wanted out.
The provisional decision stated the OPS would have provided a significant income of 
£6,600. However it said wouldnt a potential income of £9,694 as per the 
illustration at the time also be significant? Thats a 47% potential increase.
The provisional decision said although the personal pension was estimated to 
provide a pension of £9,694 (against the £6,673 from the OPS) it didnt include a 
spouses pension on the majority of it. However this wasnt relevant as Mr W wasnt 
married at the time. It wasnt correct to say that a return of over 13% would be 
needed to improve on what was offered. Mr W could have obtained a lower return 
than the higher growth rate used in the illustration and improved on what he had.
Following confirmation of the GMP details it had completed a pension review 
calculation as at 1 May 1996. The result - as at that date  would have been a loss of 
£2,114.
Mr W said he had some concerns about there being potential for delays in Annetts & 
Orchard completing the compensation calculation. He said it had already spent a 
considerable amount of time completing an earlier calculation with the help of an outsourced 
firm. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered what the firm has said about our jurisdiction to decide this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Annetts and Orchard has said it had explained many times how the copies of the pension 
review letters it had provided had an address on that Mr W hadnt yet moved to. And that it 
couldnt understand how I had arrived at the conclusion that Mr W may have signed a 
declaration in April 1996, but this didnt suggest that he ought to have been alerted that he 
had cause for complaint at that time. 
I understand the firms view given how it says it conducted its wider pension review.  
However I need to consider the particular circumstances here. And the issue with the 
address on the letters, however caused, adds another layer of doubt when considering the 
steps in the process to decide whether it was more likely than not that Mr W received those 
letters.
For the reasons set out in my colleagues decision dated 6 November 2019, I dont think 
there is sufficient weight of evidence to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr W 
received the letters in question. And as I explained in my provisional decision, the letter 
dated 26 April 1996 referred to Mr Ws meeting to re-start and increase the contributions to 
his personal pension plan. Mr W agreed to increase his contributions at that meeting. He 
signed the declaration on the same date. I think its highly unlikely Mr W would have agreed 
to increase his contributions if, during the discussions, he had been alerted that the firm 
might have provided unsuitable advice about the pension transfer. I dont think his actions in 
signing the declaration and agreeing to an increase in premiums are consistent with him 
being alerted that he had cause for complaint against Annetts & Orchard. 
Annetts and Orchard also said Mr W subsequently transferred his pension again and 
flexibility was still a priority in retirement. However Mr W was in a different position at the 
later transfer. He had different factors to weigh up, and wasnt giving up largely secured 
benefits in an OPS. I dont think this has implications in terms of the suitability of the original 
advice.
The event complained about was over 30 years ago. Its inevitable that memories fade and 
evidence needs to be considered in that context, and appropriate weight attached to it. I 
think whats key is the risks that the transfer presented at the time. The pension figures can 
be largely reconstructed, and the risks considered in the appropriate context of the time.
No contemporaneous documentation outlining the reasons why the transfer was 
recommended has been provided. Annetts and Orchard has said Mr W had some concerns 
about his employer and its ability to fund the pension going forward and wanted to leave the 
scheme. As I said in my provisional decision, the OPS was linked to a well-known 
established employer. Im not aware of any issues with its solvency at the time and no 
evidence has been provided of it. If Mr W did have concerns it was the advisers role to put 
those risks in context.  As I have said, in my view the risks of the transfer far outweighed the 
risks of remaining in the scheme.
In my provisional decision I said the OPS would have provided a significant income of 
£6,600. Annetts and Orchard has said the £9,694 as per the illustration at the time would 
also have been significant and was potentially a 47% potential increase. I agree the £9,694 
would have been significant. But it wasnt guaranteed, and was subject to achieving 
significant investment returns over a long period (and to annuity rates). Mr W had already 
got a largely secure pension if he stayed in the OPS  it wasnt exposed to the same degree of risk. 
I accept that Mr W wasnt married and the illustration estimated to provide a higher single life 
pension of £9,694 (against the £6,673 from the OPS). However in my provisional decision I 
explained I thought the personal pension would have needed an investment return of over 
13% to match the benefits on a like for like basis. I think this is relevant because Mr W could 
have stayed in his OPS and considered his options as he got close to retirement age. He 
may or may not have been married at that time. But any transfer value nearer retirement 
date would have reflected all the benefits that the OPS would have otherwise provided. And 
without the risks of being in the personal pension through to that date. So the personal 
pension would have had to grow at that rate to reflect the value of all of those benefits.
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and above, I think the transfer presented
significant risks. In my view Mr W didnt have the capacity to accept such risks with this
pension given he had limited other pension provision at the time. In my view the transfer 
presented too great a risk given the circumstances when the advice was given, and the 
advice to transfer wasnt suitable.
Annetts and Orchard has completed a pension review loss calculation. However the loss 
was calculated as at 1 May 1996. Any loss calculation needs to be completed as at the date 
of my final decision.
Mr W set out some concerns about there being potential for delays in Annetts & Orchard 
completing the compensation calculation. He said he understood the SERPS adjustment 
typically only had a material impact for investors who reached state pension age before 2016 
 which didnt apply to him.
As Annetts and Orchard has already completed a calculation it may already have the 
information that is required if it included a SERPS adjustment. In that case that information 
wont be outstanding. If it didnt include a SERPS adjustment then Im satisfied the time 
allowance Ive provided for is appropriate in the circumstances. Mr W has referred to it 
typically only having an impact, and a material impact. Whats material is subjective. And 
the loss calculation is specific to his circumstances.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding on fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr W, as far as its possible, into the
position that he would likely have been in if but for the unsuitable advice. I think Mr W would
have remained in his OPS if suitable advice had been given. I therefore order that
Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers calculates and pays compensation to Mr W on the
following basis.
Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers must undertake a redress calculation in line with the
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers may wish to contact the Department for Work andPensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15%
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date
Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers receives notification of Mr Ws acceptance of my final
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in
excess of 90 days, that it takes Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers should also pay Mr W £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the loss of pension benefits and length of time taken to deal with the matter 
has caused to him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation as I have outlined above is 
more than £150,000 I recommend that Annetts & Orchard Insurance Broker pays Mr W the 
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Annetts & Orchard Insurance 
Broker doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I order Annetts & Orchard Insurance Brokers to calculate and pay compensation to Mr W as 
I have outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman