DRN-3452873
The complaint
Mr L is a sole trader. He complains that that West Bay Insurance Plc has unfairly turned 
down his business interruption claim after his business was impacted by Covid-19.
Mr L has brought his complaint through a representative. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being from Mr L. 
What happened
Mr L runs a hotel business and held a business interruption insurance policy with West Bay. 
He claimed on his policy after his business was impacted by Covid-19. He says he was 
forced to close the hotel in March 2020 due to Government restrictions.
West Bay said the policy didnt cover Mr Ls claim. It said that Covid-19 had not caused 
damage to his property, as hed suggested. West Bay said there was no evidence of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises, as required for the policy to respond. West Bay 
also said there was no cover under the defective drains or sanitary arrangements section of 
the policy and so it turned down the claim.
Unhappy with West Bays response, Mr L brought his complaint to our service. In brief 
summary, he said that:
Damage, as defined in the policy, isnt limited to physical damage to property but can 
also mean financial loss due to loss of use of property. So, the core cover and 
damage to suppliers property extension should cover his claim.
The closure due to disease extension should apply because Mr Ls hotel most likely 
had a case of Covid-19 at the premises, but testing wasnt available at the start of the 
pandemic. 
There is cover under the defective drains and sanitary arrangements extension due 
to the inability to meet social distancing guidelines. The risk this posed to staff and 
customers qualifies as defective sanitary arrangements. 
There is no pandemic exclusion or other relevant exclusion in the policy. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
explained why she was not persuaded by Mr Ls arguments about why his claim should 
succeed under the policy. She concluded that West Bay had fairly turned down Mr Ls claim.
Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr Ls business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why and 
in doing so I will focus on the issues that I consider to be central to this complaint. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
West Bay has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr Ls claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Mr Ls policy covers business interruption loss:
If Damage by any of the Covers Insured occurs at the Premises
A) To property used by You for the Purpose of the Business which causes 
interruption of or interference with your Business at the Premises
The policy defines damage as Loss, destruction or damage of tangible property.
Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Mr Ls business 
interruption would need to be as a result of loss, destruction or damage to tangible property 
used by Mr L for the purpose of the business. I dont think this would provide cover for Mr Ls 
claim, because I dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage.
Mr L has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020).
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. Ive considered this,
but Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Mr Ls claim, 
including TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v 
British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development 
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Mr Ls property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, it is possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
It is possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Mr Ls 
premises. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings 
doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive 
amount of SARS-CoV-2 on Mr Ls property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt 
automatically amount to damage. So, this section of the policy doesnt provide cover. 
Suppliers
Mr L says that his local and national suppliers were also affected by the pandemic and the 
restrictions and as such cannot supply him. This has affected his ability to trade and caused 
him financial loss. 
But the extension for suppliers requires the loss to be due to damage to suppliers premises. 
I dont think Covid-19 caused damage to premises for the reasons set out above. So, I dont 
think these extensions cover Mr Ls claim. 
DiseaseThis extension covers business interruption loss in consequence of
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Mr Ls 
claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a 
case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested itself at 
the premises, I think that someone would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 
or have displayed symptoms while at the premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
Mr L has not provided any evidence to suggest that a case of Covid-19 manifested itself at 
the premises. It follows that I am not persuaded that it was more likely than not that a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at his premises. I think West Bay fairly declined the claim under 
this extension of the policy. 
Defective drains and sanitary arrangements
The same policy extension also covers business interruption loss in consequence of
closing of the whole or part of the Premises by order of the Public Authority for the 
area in which the Premises are situate consequent upon defects in the drains and 
other sanitary arrangements at the Premises.
Mr L has said that his inability to maintain social distancing amounts to a defect in the 
sanitary arrangements at his premises. 
I dont think the inability to social distance would reasonably be considered a defect in Mr Ls 
hotels sanitary arrangements. I havent seen anything to persuade me there was any 
deficiency or fault in the hotels sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal 
operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Mr Ls 
premises which led to its closure. I also havent been provided with any evidence to 
persuade me that it was the circumstances at Mr Ls premises in particular that led to the 
Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I dont think this 
extension covers Mr Ls claim. 
Other factors
Although Mr L might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, whether that 
is the case would still depend on the wording within his specific policy. And in this case, 
I dont think Mr Ls policy provides cover for his claim.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous.Mr L says that there is no exclusion for pandemics in the policy. I dont think it matters that 
pandemics arent excluded as there isnt a clause in the policy that provides cover. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require West Bay to pay Mr Ls claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman