DRN-4422097
The complaint
Mr M complains that Gain Capital UK Limited trading as City Index unfairly categorised him
as an elective Professional Client when it shouldnt have. He says this caused him significant
financial losses for which he would like to be compensated.
What happened
Mr M was an experienced trader. In March 2019 he got in touch with City Index as he was
looking to open a Contract for Difference (CFD) trading account with it. As part of that
process, Mr M clicked through a link to become an elective professional client and City Index
contacted him so that he could provide the relevant evidence.
In 2019 the rules on Elective Professional Clients were set out in the Financial Conduct
Authoritys Handbook, under the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 3.5.3. This said:
Elective professional clients
A firm may treat a client other than a local public authority or municipality as an elective
professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, where applicable, (2):
(1) The firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making his own 
investment decisions and understanding the risks involved (the qualitative test);
(2) In relation to MiFID or equivalent third country business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
a. The client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant 
market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four 
quarters;
b. The size of the clients financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash 
deposits and financial instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000;
c. The client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or 
services envisaged;
(the quantitative test)
COBS 3.5.3(3) then set out the process by which this categorisation would need to happen.
City Index asked Mr M to provide evidence of his employment and of his trading history. It
did not ask him to provide any evidence of the size of his portfolio. As part of his 
employment, Mr M said:
Im product owner for wealth and investment products, so not only do I manage the global
asset management business, but manage and build investment products for the overall
proposition, this includes leveraged products, the use of investment vehicles such as OTCs,
futures and other derivatives.
By way of verification, City Index checked Mr Ms role on a popular professional networking
site and satisfied itself that what he said was accurate.
In terms of trading, Mr M said that he had held a trading account for more than 12 months
and provided trades for the period February 2016 to September 2017. City Index accepted
this evidence and categorised Mr M as an elective professional client.
Mr M proceeded to trade on the account on three main indices: Wall Street, UK100, and
Germany30. Between March 2019 and March 2020, he placed 1,570 trades and invested
over £610,000. He withdrew around £454,000 during that time, and with the addition of
goodwill gestures and rebates of over £51,000, was left with a negative balance of £25,431
at the end.
In July 2020 Mr M complained to City Index about this negative balance  in essence
complaining about the closure of some of his trades, and about the presence of a credit
facility which he disputed he ever asked for. City Index looked into his complaint and
concluded it had done nothing wrong. It said there was evidence he had specifically
requested a credit facility and the trades had been closed correctly. It maintained his
negative balance was due. Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He considered that the main issue
was in fact Mr Ms classification as an elective professional client, and asked Mr M for some
further information. Mr M said:
He had some small trading activity but not sufficient to meet the requirements of 
being an elective professional client.
In terms of his background, he only had a professional history working within retail 
banking and have no professional background or qualification with trading or 
investment products relating to trading. He said that he was told by City Index to 
mention the sort of activities their compliance team would be after in order to pass 
this part of the criteria.
On review of the evidence, the investigator concluded that City Index hadnt done anything
wrong and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M remained unhappy, and so the case was
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023. In it I said:
Im satisfied Mr M fulfilled the qualitative test, namely that he was capable of making his
own investment decisions and understanding the risks involved. The evidence he provided
of his previous trades demonstrate that Mr M was a very experienced trader, who knew
exactly what markets he wanted to trade on and how much he wanted to invest. 
But in order to comply with the rules, City Index needed to satisfy itself that Mr M also met at 
least two of the three quantitative criteria. Mr M did not provide nor was he asked to provide 
any evidence of his existing portfolio  so I make no comment about whether he may or may 
not have fulfilled that criteria because I simply do not have that evidence.
Instead, City Index decided that Mr M qualified on the basis of his trading history and hisprofessional position. Ill deal with each of these in turn.
Trading history
Its clear to me that the evidence Mr M provided of his trading history does not fulfil the
requirements in COBS 3.5.3. The rule say that not only do the transactions have to be of
significant size and of a specified frequency, they also needed to be carried out over the
previous four quarters. Whilst there were different approaches to what relevant market,
significant size and even 10 per quarter meant at the time (approaches which both the
European and Securities Markets authority  ESMA  and the FCA have provided guidance
on), Im not persuaded there was any doubt that previous four quarters clearly meant
immediately before the application. It could not mean four quarters at some other point in
history  and in Mr Ms case, the evidence he provided was not just out of date, it was from
two years before (2016 to 2017).
Furthermore, Mr M has provided evidence that the only trading he carried out in the four
quarters immediately preceding his assessment as an elective professional client was limited
and not of significant size. In total, he traded for a few weeks in March 2018 and November
2019, with no other trading of note. So had City Index asked for more recent evidence of his
trading history, it wouldve been clear that he did not meet this criterion.
In looking at the way this evidence was reviewed by City Index, Im satisfied that its
conclusion that this evidence meant that Mr Ms trading met COBS 3.5.3(2)(a) was not fair
and reasonable.
Professional background
In my view this area is less clear-cut. Mr M has said that he was told what to say in order to
satisfy City Indexs compliance department  and as a result he used the words leverage,
futures and derivatives.
Ive seen no evidence that he was coached in this way, and on the contrary I can see that
City Index did not initially accept his role as being enough to satisfy COBS3.5.3(2)(c)
because it asked him for more detail.
The problem, in my view, is that Mr Ms response did not really provide more detail. In
providing guidance to firms on this aspect of the rules, ESMA said that:
Investment firms must ensure that the position was professional in nature and held in a field
that allowed the client to acquire knowledge of transactions or services that have
comparable features and a comparable level of complexity to the transactions or services
envisaged.
Mr M doesnt explain in what way his role gave him this knowledge  for example whether it
required him to know details on trading. And the screenshot of his profile which Ive seen
and which City Index relied on, in my view doesnt provide this level of detail either.
So, Im not satisfied that City Indexs conclusion that Mr M fulfilled this limb of the criteria 
was fair and reasonable either.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr M made a number of comments, largely in 
relation to the way I had suggested compensating him  which involved clearing the balance 
he owes City Index and nothing more. He also said that the trades which were placed when 
he had a negative balance ought to be discounted as well as a £10,000 compensation 
payment that he says ought to have been made to him but was incorrectly added to his trading account. He suggested it would be fair and reasonable to instead ask City Index to 
rework the account with the leverage available to him as a retail client. He said that he 
expected compensation of around £160,000 if this was done correctly. 
I considered his comments and before issuing this final decision, decided that I agreed with 
his proposal. I therefore wrote to both parties to confirm this and gave each party a chance 
to comment:
Although I'm not persuaded the financial compensation will necessarily be that different,
I've decided that my role isn't to determine the precise financial loss, but instead to
ensure that the methodology used to calculate the financial compensation is fair and
reasonable. I want to be clear that Im not at all persuaded, given Mr Ms trading, history
and overall circumstances, that he wouldve fundamentally traded any differently or
deposited less had his account been a retail trading account. His volume of trading in the
space of around 12 months, as well as the size of his trades, his background and his
previous trading history all indicate an experienced, knowledgeable and very active
trader  and that wouldve been the case regardless of the nature of his account. 
Im also satisfied that whilst he wouldnt have had access to a credit facility as a retail client,
the amount he was willing to invest meant that Im persuaded, on balance, that he simply
wouldve managed his account differently  for example depositing at different times. Im
satisfied the evidence shows that when he had to deposit funds to support his trading he
did so, and Im persuaded he wouldve done that whether faced with a downside limit of
zero or a negative figure. This means that Im not persuaded by his comments that I
should take into account individual trades placed when he had a negative balance, and
Im not satisfied that would be a fair and reasonable way to put things right for him. Im
persuaded the fair and reasonable way to put things right is to ask City Index to review
the trades, recalculate the leverage that would've been available for each one, and only
refund any negative balance at the end - plus any additional balance should there be
one.
To the end, I intend to say the following in my final decision:
City Index need to rework all Mr M's trades and apply the leverage he would've had 
access to had he been a retail client. This includes the trades he made losses on, as 
well as the ones he made profits. This will give City Index an overall figure of the loss 
he wouldve made as a retail client.
If this total would still have left Mr M with a negative balance, it needs to erase that 
negative balance and confirm that Mr M has no debt.
If this total would've left Mr M with an additional balance above his negative balance, 
it needs to refund this to Mr M  in refunding any additional balance, City Index can 
take into account any withdrawals Mr M made during the life of his account.
Mr M made some further submissions around our process, and the amount of compensation 
he said he had calculated hed be entitled to. He also queried the figures Id referenced in 
my decision around how much he invested  he said he had invested over £700,000. 
City Index also replied. It agreed with my findings that it should not have opted Mr M up as 
an elective professional client. However, it disagreed with my revised way of putting things 
right. It said:
It was unlikely that a number of Mr Ms trades could be replicated if his account had been a retail client one, because it would have to speculate as to his trading 
behaviour. 
It said it wasnt convinced by Mr M when he alleged he wouldnt have traded in the 
same way but even if it accepted that, it would still need to speculate as to what 
trades it needed to place. 
After reviewing the account, a number of adjustments couldnt be made, and there 
wouldve been insufficient margin available to Mr M to open the size trades that he 
did. And it gave some examples. 
It said that it wasnt persuaded that adjusting the quantities to a size equivalent to 
retail margin would be possible, as it would need to assume what volumes would 
have been trading. It said it would also not be possible to estimate how long any 
positions wouldve been held for, as Mr M may have made different trading decisions 
depending on the margin available to him. 
It concluded that due to the speculative nature of this way of putting things right, it didnt 
consider it was fair  and instead said that writing off the balance should satisfactorily 
resolve the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
City Index has accepted my findings that Mr M should not have been classified as an 
elective professional client. I therefore see no reason to depart from my provisional 
conclusions and confirm them as final here. 
City Index has on the other hand disagreed with my revised method for putting things right, 
and I therefore deal with that issue below. 
Putting things right
Broadly, City Index disagrees with my method for putting things right because it says it would 
require it to speculate as to what Mr M wouldve done had he been a retail client  however 
Im not persuaded by the arguments it has provided for this. 
In my view, its fair and reasonable to assume that Mr Ms trading strategy wouldve been, on 
balance, the same or nearly the same if hed been classified as a retail client. The key driver 
here were the market movements Mr M was anticipating, and whilst the amount of leverage 
available dictated how much risk he was taking, Im not persuaded a lower leverage 
wouldve fundamentally altered his predictions of the market. So Im satisfied that using his 
existing trades as a basis for determining what his losses wouldve been as a retail client is 
fair and reasonable. 
I do agree that Mr M would likely not have been able to trade in the same sizes because he 
wouldve had less leverage available  this is the very reason he shouldnt have been 
allowed to trade as an elective professional client. 
In relation to the credit facility Mr M had, I accept that in principle he would not have had that 
as a retail client. However Im satisfied that for the purposes of this calculation City Index can 
treat that as the margin he had available when recalculating what trades he wouldve placed 
during that period. This is because Mr M had previously withdrawn large sums of money, 
allowing him to enter this credit facility  and as he was trading with it, I dont agree it would be fair and reasonable to discount it. 
So City Index needs to work out the size of trades hed have been able to place with retail 
leverage, rather than professional, and for the same amount of initial margin. It should then 
adjust the corresponding profit or loss accordingly. The result of this exercise will give City 
Index an overall figure of the loss Mr M wouldve made as a retail client. 
If this total would still have left Mr M with a negative balance, taking into account his 
deposits, it needs to erase that negative balance and confirm to Mr M in writing that he has 
no debt. 
If this total wouldve left Mr M with an additional balance, compared to his existing losses, 
above his negative balance, then it needs to refund this to Mr M. 
However, in refunding any additional balance, City Index can take into account any other 
credits and adjustments made during the life of his account  and its this aspect that I dont 
think Mr M has fully appreciated. Im therefore going to deal with the comments hes made 
on the figures Ive used. 
Ive deliberately not specified figures in my award  but Mr M has not showed me any 
evidence to confirm the amount he says he invested versus what Ive seen from the ledger 
of his account. I can confirm that the evidence I have shows:
154 card deposits, starting 11 March 2019 and ending 26 February 2020, for a total 
of £610,802.28. Ive not seen sufficient evidence that Mr M invested in excess of 
£700,000. 
21 withdrawals, starting 17 April 2019 and ending 13 February 2020, for a total 
withdrawn amount of £454,317.99. 
12 Customer rebates, financing finance adjustments and a promotion, for a total of 
£41,955.65. 
Two goodwill gestures  one for £557.50 on 12 March 2019, and one for £10,000 on 
30 January 2020. Ive considered Mr Ms comments in relation to these payments, 
but I dont agree they should be discounted. Whether or not they were intended to 
be paid to his bank account, its clear to me that he made use of them for trading  
and as such ought to be fairly and reasonably included in the inflows and outflows of 
the account for the purposes of the calculation.
An overall trading loss of £234,429.22.
These figures lead the final balance of £-25,431.78  which is the balance Mr M was 
left with when he stopped trading. So Im satisfied these figures are reliable and 
Mr M will need to provide City Index with evidence to the contrary if he disputes 
these sums. 
Mr M has also asked for 8% simple interest on any loss. Ive considered his request for this, 
but I dont agree it would be fair and reasonable. Its important that I make clear to Mr M that 
previous ombudsman decisions do not set a precedent, nor am I bound to follow them. 
Each case is decided on its own facts. This service awards 8% simple interest in situations 
where a consumer has been deprived of their money, and it isnt possible, on balance, to 
quantify the impact not having this money has had on a range of decisions the consumer 
may have made had they had the money available. However, in Mr Ms case, Im satisfied that given his significant volume trading, his 
background, and the amount he was willing to invest, he would most likely have carried on 
trading had he been able to. I want to be clear that I have no doubt that Mr M was fully 
aware that he was trading as a professional client and was intent on doing so. He knew 
exactly what he was doing on his account and was more than willing to trade significant 
volumes in the pursuit of higher rewards. So, I dont agree that awarding him additional 
interest is fair and reasonable, and in my view, this would overcompensate him. For these 
reasons, Im satisfied that no further compensation, to what Ive set out above, is payable. 
I consider that to put things right Mr Ms losses need to be calculated by reference to what 
his trading results wouldve been had he been a retail client, placing the same trades  and 
then any refund needs to take into account his deposits (and any other credits) and 
withdrawals. So:
Where A is the trading loss he incurred as an elective professional client, and B is 
the outcome of reworking the trades as Ive said above. 
C represents any other credits applied to the account (adjustments, goodwill 
gestures and the existing credit facility which was used to trade and was owing at the 
end), and D the overall refund due to Mr M,
(A  B)  C = D. 
For example: Mr M made a trading loss of around £234,000 but his trading loss as a 
retail client may have been around £11,000. The difference means that Mr Ms 
trading loss would be reduced by around £223,000  but if this were refunded to Mr 
M, hed be overcompensated as the result would be an overall profit on the account 
(when considering his existing withdrawals and overall deposits), when thats not 
what wouldve happened. Instead, the other inflows and outflows from the account 
would need to be taken into account. Mr M had an existing negative balance of 
around £-25,000. He also had the benefit of £52,512 in goodwill gestures and other 
adjustments and promotions. These sums would need to also be deducted, leaving a 
total due to Mr M of around £145,000. 
Ive given this example as a guide, and not to be relied on as Ive not carried out the 
calculations myself. The trading losses Mr M wouldve sustained as a retail client 
may have been more or less than this. 
However this is how I expect this balance would need to be reduced by the 
adjustments, credits and goodwill gestures that Mr M received on the account when 
deciding how much to refund to Mr M. 
City Index needs to provide the calculation to Mr M in a clear and simple format so 
that he can understand how it has followed this methodology, and how it has come 
up with any figures due. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and award compensation as above. Gain 
Capital UK Limited  trading as City Index must pay the compensation Ive awarded above 
within 28 days of when we tell it Mr M has accepted this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman