DRN-3104766
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros you 
Reaseguros, S.A.s settlement of a claim on a guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Mapfre includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was stolen. His comprehensive motor insurer paid him £8,467 to settle his claim 
for its market value. Mr W claimed on his GAP policy for the difference between that amount 
and the net invoice price of the car, which was £9,199. He also claimed for a £250 
contribution towards his motor insurers excess which Mapfre paid.
But Mapfre told Mr W that his motor insurers valuation of his car was too low. It said that 
according to the one trade guide it used for determining the market value of his car, which Ill 
refer to as G, the valuation should have been £9,040. So it paid him the difference between 
Gs valuation of £9,040 (rather than his comprehensive insurers settlement of £8,467) and 
his cars invoice price, which came to £159.
Mr W didn't think Mapfre had settled his claim fairly. He brought his complaint to us. I issued 
a provisional decision on 1 October 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extract below. I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its likely Ill uphold it.
Mr Ws policy says that if his car is stolen or deemed a total loss Mapfre would pay him the 
difference between the current value and the net invoice price. And the policy defines the 
current value as:
 the greater of either the Motor Insurance Settlement or the market value of the insured 
vehicle.
It defines market value as the valuation given by G.
So, in this case, as Gs valuation is higher than the motor insurers settlement, Mapfre used 
Gs figure as the cars current value and paid the difference between that and the invoice 
price for the car in settlement of the GAP claim. In other words Mapfre settled the claim in 
line with the policy terms. But Im not confined to the strict policy terms in deciding what I 
think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I don't think Mapfre has dealt with Mr Ws claim fairly.
Thats because when Mr W took out his policy I think he could have had a reasonable 
expectation that it would cover the difference between his motor insurers reasonable 
settlement of the claim and the invoice price of the car. I don't think he could have known, at 
that point, that the trade guide Mapfre uses would provide a higher valuation than his motor 
insurers could fairly reach. So I think it would be fair for Mapfre to pay the difference 
between a fair market value for the car and its invoice price.
Ive looked to see if Mr Ws motor insurer's valuation was fair. Valuing second hand cars isn't 
an exact science as advertised and selling prices can vary dramatically. And we generally 
think that its reasonable for motor insurers to use the valuations produced from four 
recognised trade guides, one of which is G, in order to find a market value. But, as the 
guides rarely agree on an exact valuation we think a fair way to find a cars market value is 
to use an average of the various figures given by the trade guides.
In this case Mr Ws motor insurer used valuations from two of the trade guides to produce an 
average figure of £8,467. But, Ive also looked at the valuations from the two other guides 
the motor insurer didn't refer to. And if it had taken an average from all four guides the 
valuation would have reduced slightly to £8,347. So I think the motor insurers valuation is 
fair.
In this case I've noted that Gs valuation was the highest of all four trade guides. So I don't 
think it would be fair for Mapfre to rely on that to produce the market value of Mr Ws car at 
the time of its loss. And I've noted that Mapfre only uses that valuation when its higher than 
the motor insurers settlement, that seems unfair. That is, if Gs valuation is less than the 
amount a comprehensive motor insurer values the car at, Mapfre doesn't increase its 
settlement to reflect the lower value in G. And using Gs valuation in the way that it does 
means that Mapfres policy won't always give the consumer the full protection they were 
looking for from the GAP policy when they took it out.
It follows that I don't think Mapfre has dealt with Mr Ws claim fairly. To put things right I think 
it should use the motor insurers valuation of £8,467 as the market value of the car. That 
means it should pay Mr W a further [£9,040 - £8,467] £573 to settle his GAP claim. Mapfre 
should add simple interest to that settlement as set out below.
Developments 
Both Mr W and Mapfre accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr W and Mapfre accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to amend it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to:
pay Mr W a further £573 to settle his GAP claim;
add simple interest to that settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
Mr Ws claim to the date it makes payment.1
1 If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman