DRN-3831457
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt treat hum fairly when he experienced a 
period of financial difficulty. As a result it has recorded incorrect information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr O has a mortgage and personal loan with Barclays. In July 2021 he lost his job. Mr O 
spoke to Barclays and believed hed agreed a payment stop for both the mortgage and the 
loan. He said Barclays later wrote to him to say that hed missed payments to the mortgage 
and loan. Mr O said when he queried this with Barclays, sometimes it accepted that there 
was an arrangement in place to stop payments and sometimes it didnt.
Mr O complains:
Barclays has now denied there was any arrangement in place to sop payments to the 
mortgage and loan.
As a result, Barclays has recorded missed payments for both the mortgage and loan on 
his credit file. It has only agreed to amend an entry for February 2022.
Barclays passed the loan to a third party debt collector  but neither Barclays or the debt 
collector will allow him to reinstate payments.
Barclays hasnt kept recordings of all the phone calls where the payment stop was 
agreed.
I issued a provisional decision proposing to uphold the complaint in part. My provisional 
findings were, in summary:
Barclays did not agree a payment stop or holiday but it did not do enough to explain to 
Mr O that he needed to speak to a different department about his loan. In the 
circumstances there was nothing Barclays could do in regard to the mortgage. But Mr O 
was deprived of the opportunity to see if an arrangement could be reached in respect of 
his loan.
I considered it likely that if Barclays had told Mr O he needed to speak to a different 
department about his loan, he would have done so. The evidence we have is that Mr O 
was keen to engage with Barclays.
It was likely Mr O would have given Barclays the same information about his financial 
position and circumstances that he did in respect of his mortgage. If he had done so  
bearing in mind he expected to be back in work within six months and taking into account 
the relevant rules  it would have been fair and reasonable for Barclays to put in place 
an arrangement accept token payments for six months.
While the default reflected that Mr O did not discuss the loan with Barclays  Ive found 
that the lack of engagement was due to an error by Barclays, so it does not necessarily 
reflect the correct position. I considered that it was likely Mr O would have maintained 
the arrangement had it been put in place  and that, rather than a default, should be 
recorded on his credit file.
It was less clear what happened after January 2022. I asked for evidence from both 
sides. I said there were two possibilities: 1) The evidence shows that Mr O attempted to 
but struggled to set up payments after January 2022. But he engaged with the debt 
collector and subsequently set up a payment arrangement; or 2) There was little or no 
attempt by Mr O to engage with the debt collector after January 2022 and no formal 
payment arrangement was made.
If the evidence showed that option 1 was more likely, then Barclays should retrieve the 
debt form the third party, remove the default and amend Mr Os credit file to show an 
arrangement in place from July 2021 to date  unless any arrangement Mr O had made 
meant the loan would now be up to date.
If the evidence showed that option 2 was more likely, then I would not ask Barclays to do 
anything to amend Mr Os credit file or to buy the debt back. That is because a default 
would most likely have been recorded in any event.
I wasnt persuaded that the Mr O would have qualified for a mainstream prime mortgage 
but for the default or that the removal of the default would make a significant difference 
to that.
Barclays should pay Mr O £500 for any distress and inconvenience. 
It was reasonable for Barclays to record the January 2022 mortgage payment as late  
even if it was only by four days.
Mr O responded to say, in summary:
The damage to his credit file has prevented him moving to be closer to his son, meant he 
had a long commute, meant he had to keep his belongings in storage and couldnt get a 
low interest rate mortgage.
Hes never missed a payment before. Barclays should pay him at least £20,000 to 
compensate him for his costs.
Barclays led him to believe that his mortgage was on a plan and the he was not liable 
for loan payments. He was deprived of the opportunity to make reduced payments. 
Barclays should remove all missed payments from his credit file for both the mortgage 
and loan.
Barclays provided some evidence from the third party debt collector. But it didnt say if it 
accepted my provisional decision or not. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Barclays has not communicated well with Mr O. But I cant see that any 
arrangement could have been reached in respect of the mortgage. The income and 
expenditure form Mr O completed shows that he could not afford to make a payment to the 
mortgage. Looking at the rules that were in place, I cant see what concessions Barclays 
could have offered Mr O. I agree that the language Barclays used around a plan being in 
place was at times misleading. But I cant see that it ever actually agreed a formal 
arrangement as Mr O believed. 
Mr O is relying on some short extracts of phone calls to support his position. They show that 
Barclays didnt always communicate clearly and there was some avoidable confusion. There 
were clearly errors in those calls  but it doesnt follow that a formal arrangement was 
actually in place in respect of the mortgage. 
In any case, even if a concession had been arranged on the mortgage, it would still have 
had an impact on Mr Os credit file and that would still have affected his ability to obtain a 
mortgage.  I see no reason to change the findings I reached in respect of the personal loan:
Barclays didnt do enough to tell Mr O that he needed to discuss his personal loan with a 
different department. Mr O was deprived of the opportunity to see if an arrangement 
could be reached in respect of his loan.
I considered it likely that if Barclays had told Mr O he needed to speak to a different 
department about his loan, he would have done so. The evidence we have is that Mr O 
was keen to engage with Barclays.
It was likely Mr O would have given Barclays the same information about his financial 
position and circumstances that he did in respect of his mortgage. If he had done so  
bearing in mind he expected to be back in work within six months and taking into account 
the relevant rules (which are different for unsecured loans than they are for mortgages)  
it would have been fair and reasonable for Barclays to put in place an arrangement 
accept token payments for six months.
While the default reflected that Mr O did not discuss the loan with Barclays  Ive found 
that the lack of engagement was due to an error by Barclays, so it does not necessarily 
reflect the correct position. I considered that it was likely Mr O would have maintained 
the arrangement had it been put in place. An arrangement rather than a default, should 
be recorded on his credit file.
Mr O has provided evidence to show that he was speaking to the third-party debt collector in 
December 2021. He has also provided a later email where he said that he was told that he 
was unable to set up a payment because of an ongoing complaint with Barclays. 
The evidence shows that Mr O set up a payment arrangement with the debt collector from 
March 2022, before the debt was returned to Barclays in August 2022. The debt was then 
passed top another debt collector and Mr O again set up a direct debit payment.
Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that the failure of Mr O to set up a payment 
arrangement in January 2022 was due to the ongoing dispute with Barclays rather than to 
any lack of engagement. And that dispute would have been avoided had Barclays set out the 
correct position regarding the unsecured personal loan. In other words, if Barclays had 
treated Mr O fairly it is more likely than not that he would have recommenced payments to 
the personal loan from January 2022. 
Therefore I consider that in respect of the personal loan Barclays should take the loan back 
from the debt collector, remove the default and amend Mr Os credit file to show an 
arrangement in place from July 2021 to date  unless Mr O has caught up with missed 
payments. 
I dont agree with Mr O that Barclays is responsible for the fact that he wasnt able to buy the 
house he wanted. As Ive said, I cant see that there was any concession Barclays could 
have offered Mr O for the mortgage. And even if it had offered any type of concession, that 
would always have been reflected on Mr Os credit file and would still have affected his 
ability to obtain a mortgage. The same would apply for the personal loan  an arrangement 
to pay will be viewed as better than a default. But it is still adverse information that many 
lenders will not find acceptable.
The cause of the problems that Mr O has experienced are because he unfortunately lost his 
job and wasnt able to maintain his commitments. That would always have an impact on his 
credit file. I cant say that Barclays is responsible for that  or that the errors it did make were 
the reason why Mr O couldnt move home as he wanted. So I dont see how I could fairly say 
that Barclays should pay the costs Mr O says he has incurred.
I accept Barclays has not handled this matter very well. It didnt communicate very well with 
Mr O. That added to his stress at what was already a very difficult time for him. And hes also had to take the time to sort this matter out. Overall  I consider £500 is fair to reflect the 
impact on Mr O of Barclays error here./
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Pay Mr O £500.
Take the loan debt back from the debt collector.
Remove the default for the personal loan.
Amend Mr Os credit file to show an arrangement to pay was in place from July 2021 
until the loan is back up to date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman