DRN-4466055
The complaint
Ms W complains Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd has responded unfairly to her claim 
made on her let property insurance.
What happened
Ms W owns a property she rents out. Tenants departed in February 2023. The property was 
left in a poor condition. She was quoted around £20,000 for cleaning and repairs.  She 
claimed for the cost against her Accredited policy. She felt the damage was malicious or 
vandalism.   
Accredited started investigating the claim. It had concerns about the cause of damage and 
various other issues. Months later Ms W was still waiting for a settlement. Frustrated with 
how Accredited was dealing with the claim she complained. It didnt issue a full response, so 
still unsatisfied she came to this service. 
Accredited explained to this service that it hadnt settled the claim as it was unclear how 
damage to the property had happened. It said Ms W alleged the tenants or their associates 
had maliciously damaged it. But it felt the evidence pointed to damage caused over time by 
careless, unhygienic tenants - rather than from one malicious event. 
In response our Investigator said photos indicated some potential malicious damage. So she 
suggested Accredited should consider covering that. It went on to consider Ms Ws estimate 
for repairs. It felt that only around £2,300 of the £20,000 total was for damage that could be 
considered as malicious  with the rest being wear and tear or resulting from lifestyle. 
Accredited said, despite that, it was willing to offer £5,000 to resolve the claim. It considered 
that the maximum amount payable under the policy for malicious damage. 
Our Investigator felt Accrediteds offer to be fair and reasonable. She agreed most of the 
damage didnt appear to be malicious  but instead due to carelessness. So she didnt 
recommend it pay more or do anything differently. As Ms W didnt accept that outcome the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Ms W and Accredited provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Ms Ws policy covers her contents and buildings against malicious acts or vandalism. 
Accredited, having assessed the property, feels only around £2,300 of repairs are for 
damage that could be considered malicious  ie that done deliberately or with intent. Having 
looked at photos the property I can see it was left in a poor state. But I agree most of the 
repairs or replacement do seem more likely to be required due to a careless lifestyle, lack of 
maintenance and wear and tear. 
Im not persuaded by what Ive seen, including Ms Ws estimates for repairs and photos, that 
more than £5,000 of the works are for what can be considered malicious damage or 
vandalism. 
Ms W has said that it wasnt her tenants that caused the damage  instead it was vandalism 
or malicious damage by associates of theirs. Either way it doesnt make a difference to the 
outcome. Thats because Im not persuaded, by the evidence, theres more than £5,000 of 
damage that could be considered malicious or vandalism. 
I accept it will be frustrating for Ms W to receive only £5,000 of the £20,000 shes claiming 
for. But it doesnt seem, based on what Ive seen, that any of the remainder of the loss is 
likely covered by any of the causes or events her Accredited policy covers her against. 
These include storm, flood, fire, theft, escape of water, subsidence and accidental damage. 
So I consider Accrediteds offer of £5,000 to settle her claim to be fair and reasonable.  
Ms Ws been unhappy about how long the claim took to process. Shes also reported 
concern at how it approached its investigation. Accrediteds said it was concerned about 
inconsistencies and various other issues. Having looked at the timelines and its evidence of 
its investigation I cant say it treated Ms W unfairly or unreasonably. Im satisfied it was 
responding to reasonable concerns in a fair way.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd is required to pay Ms W 
£5,000 to settle her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman