DRN-3124422
The complaint
Mrs D complains Aviva handled her motor insurance claim poorly.
 
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs Ds vehicle was damaged in a collision. She claimed on her Aviva 
motor insurance policy. Aviva arranged for garage A to repair the car. It was returned to 
Mrs D in early December 2020. But she wasnt satisfied with the standard of the repairs. In 
January 2021 Avivas engineer assessed the repairs. In February 2021 it agreed rectification 
work was required. A new repairer was found to do the work  garage B. 
In March 2021 Mrs D approached this service as her car still hadnt been repaired to her 
satisfaction. In late August 2021 her car was returned to her by B. Aviva considered the 
repairs had been completed to a reasonable standard.
Mrs Ds still unhappy as she feels A caused damage to an alloy wheel and a fog light during 
the repairs. Aviva didnt accept A was responsible, so refused to complete the repairs or 
provide a cash settlement. Aviva did accept it took too long to complete the repairs to a 
satisfactory standard. It offered Mrs D £400 compensation. She says she will settle for 
£1,000, but Aviva wont increase its offer.
Our investigator felt Avivas decision not to repair the alloy wheel and fog light was fair. But 
he was of the opinion £400 wasnt enough to recognise the impact of Avivas failure to repair 
her vehicle in a reasonable time. He felt £600 would be more appropriate. Aviva didnt agree, 
so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional damage Mrs D feels A caused to her car. Ive seen photos 
taken in October 2020 when A took possession of the car  and others taken during repairs 
and after completion. Ive also seen photos taken during Avivas engineers inspection in 
January 2021. 
The fog light damage appears to be visible in As initial possession photos. So Im not 
persuaded it was responsible. The photos of the alloy wheel are less conclusive. But a mark 
in an October 2020 photo seems to match the damage shown in the later photos. So, on 
balance, I think its most likely the alloy damage was already there when A took possession 
of the car. So for me Avivas decision not to deal with the alloy wheel or fog light damage is 
fair and reasonable  its seems they most likely arent related to the collision relevant to the 
claim.   
Regarding compensation, I agree with the investigator that £600 would be a fair amount to 
pay Mrs D. I note Avivas comments that the rectification work was cosmetic, not affecting 
the use of the vehicle  and that she had a replacement car whilst repairs were being 
undertaken.
  
I accept rectification work is, unfortunately, required in some cases. But as Avivas said in 
this case the repairs took nearly eight months to resolve. The delay seemed to be largely 
due to a dispute about liability for the rectification costs. Aviva could have avoided that by 
authorising the repairs before an agreement was reached. After all its agent was responsible 
for the initial poor work. 
Mrs D spent a fair amount of time and effort throughout an unnecessarily long period trying 
to resolve this matter. Shes had to frequently chase both Aviva and its agents. I understand 
the issue has caused her quite a bit of both distress and inconvenience.  An exact amount of 
compensation is always hard to decide upon, but in this case £600 does seem to be a fair 
amount to recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience experienced by Mrs D.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, to resolve Mrs Ds complaint Aviva Insurance Limited needs 
to pay her £600 compensation in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman