DRN-4247831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) wouldnt agree to extend their home 
insurance policy while a claim they made under it is still ongoing.
In this complaint there are different businesses involved. Ultimately this complaint comes 
under Society of Lloyds. However where relevant Ive referred to the insurer, and the 
underwriter separately. 
What happened
In 2021, Mr and Mrs S property was damaged by a flood. They had arranged their insurance 
through a broker, and their insurer at the time was using a particular underwriter to assess 
the levels of risk. When their policy came up for renewal, in October 2022, Mr and Mrs S 
were told the underwriter hadnt been able to provide the insurer with renewal terms. Instead 
of issuing a new policy, Mr and Mrs S existing policy was extended. 
A further extension to this was agreed, but in December 2022, Mr and Mrs S were told there 
had to be a change in underwriters. They were offered a new policy, but the premium had 
increased from around £6,000 for the previous year [with the previous underwriter] to over 
£20,000. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were told by the underwriter that it had been removed from the 
insurers panel at short notice. Mr and Mrs S complained to the insurer about this, and at the 
end of December they were given a further extension to the existing policy, to enable them 
time to find cover elsewhere. Mr and Mrs S were able to do this, but said because of the 
ongoing claim, many insurers couldnt offer a quote. And their new insurance provider had 
charged a significant premium as a result of the ongoing claim. 
Mr and Mrs S complained about the handling of the renewal and the poor communication 
involved. Lloyds said it was satisfied that, in extending the cover several times, it had acted 
fairly. It said it wasnt going to comment on business decisions around underwriters and 
premiums offered. Unsatisfied with its response, Mr and Mrs S brought the complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do anymore to put things right. He said the 
cover had been extended to allow Mr and Mrs S more time to find a suitable alternative, he 
thought this was enough. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept that. So the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Lloyds to take any further action to resolve the 
complaint. Ive explained why below. 
I can see this has left Mr and Mrs S in a difficult position. Theyve had to find another 
insurance provider, at fairly short notice, whilst a claim is still ongoing. And this has likely 
resulted in them being charged a higher premium than they would have done had the 
underwriter stayed the same. 
This service cant interfere with a commercial decision between an underwriter and 
insurance provider relating to their terms of business. But we can look at whether the insurer 
treated Mr and Mrs S fairly once it knew it wouldnt be able to continue their existing policy. 
In these situations, wed expect the insurer to try and place Mr and Mrs S on cover with 
another provider. I can see its done that in this case. I accept the premium quoted was 
significantly higher than theyd previously paid. But ultimately insurers are allowed to 
determine the price they charge for underwriting certain risks. So whilst I understand why Mr 
and Mrs S wanted to seek cover elsewhere, in offering an alternative, I think Lloyds has 
done enough here. 
However, it seems the communication between the insurer and Mr and Mrs S could have 
been better. Lloyds says Mr and Mrs S broker was aware of the situation [i.e., that the 
policy couldnt renew] at renewal stage in October 2022. Whereas Mr and Mrs S said they 
were only told of a potential issue much later. 
I havent seen anything from Lloyds which supports that it made the broker aware of the 
implications for Mr and Mrs S. I see no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs S that they were 
unaware of an issue until December 2022. 
However, I can see that after Mr and Mrs S explained the challenge of seeking alternative 
insurance in December, they were given two further extensions of the existing policy. So the 
policy didnt end until February 2023 when Mr and Mrs S said theyd found cover elsewhere.
So whilst I think the communication could have been clearer, I think Lloyds fairly took steps 
to assist Mr and Mrs S whilst they were seeking alternative arrangements. So Im not going 
to ask it to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not going to ask Society of Lloyds to do anything 
differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman