DRN-2876069
The complaint
Ms A complains that her car insurer, esure Insurance Limited, failed to provide her with a 
courtesy car. She also complains that esure failed to tell her about the damage to her cars 
exhaust and made the exhaust worse and fitted a copy converter instead of an original part.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
The catalytic converter was stolen from Ms As car and she claimed to esure and it sent her 
car to its approved repairer. Ms A said her car was away for two weeks and when it was 
returned it was causing problems so she took it to a garage of her choice who told her these 
were due to the catalytic converter not being the correct part for her car.
 
Ms A said she wasnt told by esures repairer that the replacement catalytic converter is a 
copy part, and this has cost her more in fuel and wouldnt last as long as a genuine part. She 
would like esure to fit a genuine part and compensate her for her losses.
Ms A said her garage told her esures repairer had damaged her exhaust while replacing the 
catalytic converter, but didnt tell her. She said she knew that esure wouldnt be responsible 
for the wear and tear but should take responsibility for causing the damage. Ms A also said 
esures repairer failed to provide her with a courtesy car as set out within her policy. 
Ms A said she had spent a long time chasing the repair as well as an update and she should 
receive compensation for this.
esure said its repairer informed Ms A that her exhaust was holed due to rust in person and 
by message. Ms A said she only received a voicemail about the exhaust a month after the 
repairs. esure said this damage isnt linked to her claim as wear and tear isnt covered by the 
policy. esure apologised to Ms A for not providing a courtesy car and paid her £200 
compensation.
When she got no response from esure or its repairer Ms A said she felt she had to take her 
car to a local garage for a check up and was told that esures repairer had made it worse 
while changing the converter. And Ms A said she was told the replacement converter is a 
copy and costs her more to run her car, she said she would obtain a report from a garage 
about the impact of the replacement catalytic converter. Ms A said esure failed to deal with 
her issues in a reasonable and timely manner.
Ms A said she wasnt contacted or visited by esures garage in October and received no 
contact once her car had been returned. She said she was never told about the damage to 
her exhaust as the garage had claimed. 
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended to uphold the complaint in part concerning the 
inconvenience Ms A was caused. But I said that I hadnt seen any further evidence from Ms 
A about her cars condition post-repair.
So far as esure was concerned its only task was to replace the catalytic converter. Ms A said 
esure shouldnt have replaced this with a part from a different manufacturer. But her policy 
allows esure to different manufacturers parts. 
I said its clear that esure was entitled to fit the replacement part to Ms As car. She said it 
has cost her more money to operate her car, but I hadnt seen anything to show this. I invited 
Ms A to obtain further evidence about her car. 
Ms A said esures repairer made the damage to her exhaust worse. The engineers report 
says the exhaust black box was inspected and found to have a hole due to rust. I said, the 
repairer was only replacing the catalytic converter and I hadnt seen anything to show that 
any work was carried out on the exhaust. As the black box wasnt part of the insured event I 
dont think esure did anything wrong here. 
esures records show that the repairer contacted Ms A to say that they had found a hole in 
her exhaust due to rust which wouldnt be covered by the claim. Ms A states that this didnt 
happen at the time of the repair. I couldnt be certain whether or not esures repairer told Ms 
A about her exhaust at the time her car was repaired or later, but as the damage wasnt 
covered by the claim I didnt think a short delay would have made much difference to Ms As 
car. 
I said Ms A spent a lot of time chasing a courtesy car and enquiring about the repairs. Her 
policy states that a car should be provided within two working days of the reported incident. 
Im pleased esure apologised for this failure and paid Ms A £200 compensation. I think thats 
about right for the courtesy car.
But I thought Ms A should also be compensated for the poor service she received when she 
tried to find about the courtesy car, the repairs and the delay. She was hugely frustrated and 
concerned about what was happening with her claim and the replacement car. I suggested 
Ms A be paid further compensation of £150 for the impact this had upon her.
Ms A agreed to settle her complaint on this basis. esure had nothing further to add. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld and for the reasons 
I have given in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to pay Ms A further compensation of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her during her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman