DRN-3415744
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited Admiral declined his travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to Admiral includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr S took out a multi-trip travel insurance policy with Admiral. The policy start date was 22 
July 2019 to 21 July 2020. 
Mr S travelled to his destination and was due to return on 26 March 2020. But as a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic and the travel restrictions that were put in place at the time, Mr S 
was unable to return to the UK. So, he stayed with a friend until he could return to the UK on 
28 April 2020. During this time and also as part of his return journey, he incurred some 
accommodation and travel costs.
Upon his return, Mr S submitted a claim to Admiral under his travel insurance policy for the 
costs hed incurred. Admiral assessed the claim but declined it. It said there was no cover 
under his policy for the circumstances Mr S had found himself in. It explained that Mr S 
policy provides cover for pre-booked dates and pre-booked accommodation. There is no 
cover under the policy for stays that are extended which is what Mr S had to do as he 
couldnt return home. 
Unhappy with Admirals response, Mr S brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. He said under the terms and 
conditions of Mr S travel policy, there was no cover for costs in relation to an extended stay.
Mr S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr S travel insurance policy with 
Admiral as this forms the basis of the contract.
Having considered the policy document, the section that could apply to Mr Ss situation is the 
Delayed or missed Departure section on page 44. This says:
1. What is covered
Missed international departure (outbound or return journey)
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule to cover reasonable
expenses for additional accommodation and travel if you fail to arrive at your point of
international departure (or departure point of any pre-booked connecting public 
transport abroad), in time to board your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train as a result 
of:
failure or delays to scheduled public transport (excluding taxis) in which you are 
travelling, including a connecting scheduled flight running late where it does not form 
part of a through booking
an accident or breakdown of the vehicle in which you were travelling
an accident or breakdown happening ahead of you on a motorway or dual 
carriageway which causes an unexpected delay strike, industrial action or adverse 
weather conditions
If you are a resident of Northern Ireland, cover under this section is extended to 
include international departures from ports or airports within the Republic of Ireland.
Delayed international departure (outbound or return journey)
We will pay you up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for every 
complete 12 hours that your trip is delayed, provided you have checked in and your 
pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed by more than 12 hours beyond the time 
shown on your travel itinerary, as long as you eventually go on the trip.
Abandoned international departure (outbound journey only)
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule if you decide to 
abandon your trip because your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed by more 
than 24 hours beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary at the point of 
international departure on your outward journey. This includes the irrecoverable costs 
you have paid or must legally pay for:
unused deposits
accommodation and travel
pre-booked excursions
car hire
kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter fees
car parking fees
If you decide to travel to your intended destination by alternative means, we will pay 
for the reasonable cost of additional transport and accommodation to get you there, 
or the cost to abandon your trip, whichever is less.
Mr S didnt miss his flight, nor was it delayed. And the trip wasnt abandoned either. So for 
what happened to Mr S, his circumstances arent covered looking at the above section. Mr S 
flight was cancelled as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and he then had to extend his 
stay. His policy doesnt provide cover for what happened. Mr S has said in his response to us that there was mention of Catastrophe cover 
somewhere in the policy. He feels a global pandemic would surely be covered under this 
section. 
Ive considered this which is on page 53 of the policy booklet. This says:
Section 9: Catastrophe
1. What is covered
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule if during your trip
your accommodation or the immediate area is adversely affected by a catastrophe,
which means:
you want to continue your trip but incur reasonable costs for additional 
accommodation and travel
you need to return home early but incur reasonable costs for additional 
accommodation and travel, provided you are unable to use your return travel 
tickets
you have costs you paid or legally must pay if you are unable to use or are forced 
to move from your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation
you have lost money paid for excursions that you are unable to take
Having considered the above, the events listed above arent what happened in Mr S 
circumstances so theres no cover for this. While a pandemic is covered within the definition 
of Catastrophe under his policy, Mr S had to extend his stay, he didnt continue his trip or 
return home early. He also wasnt forced to move from his pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation, and he didnt lose money on paid for excursions. So, again, Mr S situation 
isnt an event covered under his policy.  
I appreciate Mr S comments questioning why repatriation wouldnt be covered. But while 
there may be cover provided in other policies for circumstances which arent only for medical 
emergencies, this isnt something that is provided on his travel policy. 
Overall, I do understand its been frustrating and disappointing for Mr S but, taking 
everything into account, and having considered carefully his policy terms and conditions, 
none of the sections under his travel policy provide cover for what happened in his situation. 
Im satisfied therefore that Mr S claim hasnt been declined unfairly or unreasonably by 
Admiral. It follows that I dont require Admiral to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint against Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman