DRN-2242138
The complaint
Miss G says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss G was sold the policy in 2000 two years after taking out her mortgage. The policy was 
sold during a meeting when Miss G was arranging a further advance on her mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for Miss G for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £281.40 a month towards Miss Gs 
mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £17.05 a month. 
At the time, Miss G was employed as a trainer. Miss G has told us she was hospitalized with 
a kidney disease as a child and had a hysterectomy in 1988 as well as suffering from 
depression and anxiety in 1996. She hasnt said that any of these conditions gave her further 
or ongoing problems. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed and the policy was 
cancelled in 2004.
Miss Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Gs representative says:
BOS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss G wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Miss Gs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means BOS should have told 
Miss G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss G and the impact 
they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs complaint.
This sale took place in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2003. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC Code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like BOS at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Gs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS 
was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If BOS gave advice, whether it advised Miss G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether BOS gave Miss G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Miss G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss G suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss G and 
BOS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss G know she had a choice?
The sale took place over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Miss G that she had a choice in taking the policy. 
Miss G hasnt provided much detail about when she took out the further advance on her 
mortgage or anything about the sale of PPI which is understandable considering the amount 
of time that has passed. 
But BOS has given me a copy of the PPI application form she completed and signed. It is 
entirely separate from the further advance on her mortgage and provides details about the 
cost of the policy as well as asking eligibility questions in regards to cover and I dont think it 
could be mistaken for anything other than what it was. So I think at the very least PPI was 
discussed. And from what I know about BOSs sales process at the time, I think its likely that 
it wouldve made Miss G aware that PPI was optional and that Miss G had PPI because she 
chose to take it. Ive not seen enough to say that she wasnt given a choice or that she didnt 
agree to buy it.
did BOS provide advice?
BOS says that advice was provided during the sale. I havent seen anything that would 
suggest advice wasnt given so Im going to treat the sale as advised  this puts Miss G in 
the best position. 
This means BOS had to advise Miss G with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss G. It seems Miss G cant remember clearly what happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising 
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited information about Miss 
Gs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Miss G would have been caught by all the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to 
determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss G given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
- Miss G met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Miss G had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Miss Gs ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Miss G was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits she 
says she would have been entitled to.
- The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Miss G.
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Miss G. There 
was nothing about Miss Gs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And although Miss G says she suffered from pre-existing 
medical conditions I havent been given enough information to determine that she 
suffered from these conditions in the 12 months before the start date of the policy 
and potentially affecting her ability to claim. 
- While the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Gs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, BOS gave Miss G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what BOS 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss G was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss G 
was unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate 
costs as shown on the application form. I also think its unlikely Miss G would have taken out 
the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might 
be.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss G agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss G Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BOS gave Miss G all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Miss Gs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Gs. 
Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Gs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. - The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Miss G about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss G has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have on Miss G? To what extent did Miss G 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss G. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss G 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Miss G 
would have still taken out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended was suitable for Miss G, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Miss G has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Miss G would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss G says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss G had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean when BOS advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what she thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Miss Gs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss G knew she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BOS told her the exact premium at the point Miss 
G applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Miss G would have been told the 
cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with BOS at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss G would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded BOS made clear exactly what Miss G would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Miss Gs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her 
mortgage payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss G thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions which had been diagnosed 
by, or for which treatment and/or advice had been suggested by a registered medical 
practitioner during the 12 month period before the start date which recurs within 12 
months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Miss G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss G be unable 
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have caused 
Miss G pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss G from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Miss Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss G was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen enough evidence to 
suggest Miss G wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss G hasnt 
said she suffered from any medical conditions in the 12 months before the start date of the 
policy  she answered no to this question on the application form - and was in permanent 
employment. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Miss G 
might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different 
circumstances to Miss G from taking out the policy, Miss G, in her circumstances, still had 
some good reasons to take it out.
If Miss G had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation which in the insurers view she might reasonably become qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would have done. And I 
accept it may have given her pause for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Miss G was unable (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
BOS may not have told Miss G that any claim she made would be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for. But 24 
months was a longer period than Miss G would have received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than this. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Miss G would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences should Miss G be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, ensure her home was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve Miss Gs sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss G would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that 
would help her manage the consequences if Miss G was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss G 
would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Gs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss G would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Gs 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Miss G 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss G believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would represent fair compensation to put Miss G in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOS should pay Miss G compensation, as that would put her in 
a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss G thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BOS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because the overall information BOS gave Miss G, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Gs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss G and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss G in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman