DRN-3245280
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the transfer of her investments by Cheetham Jackson Ltd, referred 
to as Cheetham or the business. 
In summary, she says:
More shouldve been done by the business to mitigate losses incurred. 
Shes unhappy about the service provided since the transfer. 
Shes suffered financial loss because of the actions of the business.  
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs W and Mr W met with the business to discuss their investments and 
retirement planning. They had separate investments so were assessed and advised 
individually. Im mindful Mrs W says they always discussed things together and the advice 
was to them both. She also said that the meeting was in relation to Mr Ws early retirement 
not hers.  
They were both advised to transfer their funds  from their existing respective providers (the 
transferor) to a new provider (the transferee)  in the hope of better (and more tax 
efficient) returns, lower fees, and heading towards Mr Ws plans for early retirement. 
In summary, Mrs W was advised to transfer her investment bond (which had matured), GIA 
and ISA (with a different transferor), whilst Mr W was advised to transfer his GIA and ISA. A 
total of £206.887 was in due course transferred. 
Im aware that theres an extensive chronology, but I dont think its necessary for me to 
repeat it in my decision. In summary, I note Cheetham started the process on 19 February 
2020. I understand the transferee received instructions the next day and contacted the 
transferor upon receipt the very same day.
Based on the chronology, it seems that on 23 March 2020 the transferor received a letter 
from Cheetham  enquiring about the transfer  just after the government lockdown was 
announced. I note Mrs W is unhappy that, despite their instructions, Cheetham hadnt 
reviewed their portfolio in that time. 
It seems that in due course, on 26 March 2020, Mrs W was informed by the transferor that 
the investments had been cashed. I note soon after she requested the GIA money be held in 
cash until the market stabilised.
I note on 27 March 2020, Cheetham chased the transferor for an update as the process was 
taking longer than usual. Cheetham was told that due to extreme market activity (caused by 
the pandemic) the process was taking two to three weeks longer than usual. It seems this 
was probably done in response to Mrs W raising concerns about how long things were 
taking.  
Im aware that theres been much correspondence between Cheetham and Mrs W and Mr W 
relating to the transfer process and the timing of it. As I mentioned earlier, I dont need to 
address the correspondence individually in order to reach a decision in this case. 
Unhappy with matters, I note that in June 2020, Mrs W and Mr W formally complained, and 
in August/September 2020, they ended their relationship with the business. 
The business didnt uphold the main complaint. In short it said it wasnt responsible for the 
losses claimed and that it had completed the transaction reasonably. However, it did accept 
responsibility in relation to some missing correspondence and charges and offered 
compensation in respect of that. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said: 
Initially, a number of complaint points were raised  around administration and 
communication  that were highlighted/dealt with in Cheethams final response letter. 
Many of the issues were resolved before the complaint was referred to our service, 
so theres no need to mention them here. 
Cheetham has already offered Mrs W and Mr W £150 compensation for postal issues 
and a refund of £197.22 for overcharging on fees. 
In terms of the advice, he cant say that Cheetham did anything wrong, because:
oMrs W wanted better capital growth and believed transferring her funds gave 
her a better chance for this. 
oMrs W had capacity for loss, therefore was in a position to take a risk to 
achieve better returns on her capital. 
oThe new portfolio also offered a better charging structure which allowed Mrs 
W to combine her fees with Mr Ws, thereby reducing the impact of the fees.      
In terms of the transfer, he cant say that Cheetham did anything wrong. They acted 
in line with Mrs Ws instructions and were in regular contact with the transferee. Once 
it had made the initial request on 19 February 2020, matters were largely out of its 
hands. It responded to any requests from third parties in goodtime. 
Cheetham acknowledged that the wrong fund was used when comparing Mrs Ws 
account with her husbands, which is why she thought her funds had grown 
faster/more than his. 
Whilst this was an error, it wouldnt have impacted Mrs Ws decision to transfer. She 
was prepared to take a higher risk to achieve better returns. 
With regards to the transfer process, he cant say that the business did anything 
wrong. The transferor and transferee have accepted some liability for their respective 
shortcomings. 
Despite Mrs W suggesting that she ought to have been advised to stop the transfer 
process, Cheetham believed this was the best strategy for her and she wouldve 
benefitted from the market bouncing back. Comparisons by Cheetham suggest that 
Mrs W was better off.  
Mrs W has since questioned why her transfer wasnt made in specie. Cheetham said 
that would be suitable for avoiding CGT liability. 
Investing isnt an exact science, and decisions are taken without knowing for sure 
what might happen. The nature of risk-based investments is such that they can go up 
as well as down. In this case the recommendation wasnt unsuitable. 
Cheetham agreed with the investigators view but Mrs W didnt. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, and in summary made the following observations:
The investigators view is full of inaccuracies and contains mistakes as well as incorrect interpretations. For example, the final financial advice document is 
addressed to both herself and Mr W. 
They met the financial adviser to discuss why they had not made a profit over the last 
two and a half years, and to discuss Mr Ws early retirement, not hers. 
The investigators statement that her ISA would be invested after April, as the current 
years ISA allowance had been used up suggests he doesnt understand the rules. 
The ISA she had with the transferor wasnt to be re-invested after April as it already 
formed part of the current years allowance.
She questions why it was acceptable for Cheetham to take from 19 February to 27 
March (or 23 March) to contact the transferor.
The investment was sold on 26 March 2020, not one day before the transferee saw 
the email on 2 April 2020. She requested that her GIA wasnt sold until the market 
stabilised.
On 27 March 2020, she queried whether she had to instruct the transferor to forward 
her cash to Cheetham. She questions why they (Cheetham/transferor) allowed this to 
happen when the value of her/their investment dropped by £19,205.
She questions why she was told the GIA money would be transferred back to the 
transferor which is untrue. She doesnt believe the business acted in her best 
interest. 
Despite what the investigator says, she cant agree that any issues have been 
resolved as she hasnt received any money in relation to the issues mentioned by the 
investigator. 
Her investment bond had matured and thats why it was being moved, otherwise itd 
have to stay where it was. 
She questions how the fees were more favorable, and why was she persuaded to 
move out of her existing investment. 
She and Mr W paid Cheetham to act on their behalf and it only corresponded with the 
transferor once. 
She questions whether, based on what the investigator says, its fair that Cheetham 
doesnt deal with in-specie transfers unless theres a CGT issue to consider. This 
means shes likely to be disadvantaged. 
Given the way the markets were behaving Cheetham owed a duty of care to her and 
Mr W. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs W says, I cant safely say 
that the recommendation to transfer her investments was unsuitable. Or that the business 
behaved in such a way that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs W and Cheetham have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which 
Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. Im aware of the extensive background to this complaint. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a 
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this 
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the 
pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs W and Cheetham, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. Im not here to put in place recommendations so that the same thing 
doesnt happen to other customers or decide if the business couldve done things differently. 
Im considering whether (or not) it made an error. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Theres a separate (similar) complaint against Cheetham from Mr W that Ive also 
considered, and upheld, and awarded redress. In this instance despite obvious overlaps, Im 
only considering the actions of Cheetham in respect of Mrs W. 
Im aware that Cheetham has previously offered to pay Mrs W and Mr W a refund of £197.22 
for overcharging fees and £150 compensation for issues relating to missing correspondence. 
In the previous case, I mentioned that Cheetham should pay this amount unless it has done 
so already. I note Mrs W says she/they havent received any of that money to date. 
The above notwithstanding, I think given Mrs Ws objective for capital growth (and Mr Ws 
plans to retire early) I cant say that the advice to transfer her investments at the time was 
wrong. 
Based on what Mrs W says, it seems she and Mr W were unhappy with their investments at 
the time, and therefore open to exploring different options. Im also mindful that Mrs Ws 
investment bond had matured, and she had to decide what to do with it. 
I agree with the investigator that even if Cheetham had given Mrs W the wrong impression 
with regards to the growth of her investments, compared to her husbands, I still dont think 
its a reason to uphold the complaint. 
Despite what Mrs W says, I also dont think the business was wrong not to cancel the 
transaction of its own volition, or carry out a further review of the portfolio despite signs of 
volatility in the market, without timely valid instructions from her to do so.
I note Mrs W says she thought the business mightve erred on the side of caution and waited 
for the market to recover, but I dont think Cheetham was obliged to do so in this instance, 
because thats not what it was asked to do. In my opinion, if thats what Mrs W wanted, she 
ought to have made it clear to the business. 
Without the benefit of hindsight, in theory, its possible that the market might have dropped, 
whilst Cheetham was reviewing the portfolio (of its own volition) potentially causing a 
significant financial loss to Mrs W and leaving her with little or no option but to sell later. So, 
on the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what she says, Im unable to agree that 
the business has done anything wrong by not stopping/cancelling the transfer. Even if the business was able to transfer in-specie it means that Mrs Ws holdings wouldve 
been far more exposed to adverse market movements. In any case, without the benefit of 
hindsight it was impossible to know which wouldve been the better option. I cant say that 
the business has done anything wrong by transferring the investments in line with its 
instructions. 
Despite what Mrs W says, Im conscious that no guarantees were given about the level of 
returns/growth she might receive, that was always dependent on the financial markets. In the 
circumstances, the business isnt responsible for any change in the investment value. I 
acknowledge the value is dependent on the stockmarket, and its not something that the 
business could predict or control. So, whilst the business may have given Mrs W an idea of 
what she might receive upon encashment, and the hope was that shed make money, Im 
not persuaded that it provided any guarantees. 
I note in correspondence dated 27 March 2020, Cheetham explained it suspects the 
transferor was dragging its feet as it will have received a lot of instructions to cash. It also 
explained that the markets are volatile and that if the transferor sold down when high then it 
would have still dropped at its end in line with when the market dropped.  
Im mindful Mrs W is unhappy about the time it took Cheetham to chase the transferor and 
that it only did so when the market was on a downturn. Based on conversations with the 
investigator I note Mrs W says that she/they didnt ask the business or the transferor to stop 
because she was looking after her unwell family members. So, in the circumstances, in the 
absence of instructions from Mrs W, I dont think the business was wrong not to have 
stopped the transfer of its own volition. However, given the state of the markets at the time, 
on balance, I think its unlikely that Mrs W wouldve have done things differently in the 
circumstances.  
Despite what Mrs W says, on balance Im satisfied that the recommendation was made by 
Cheetham in good faith. In other words, despite what she says Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that the business didnt have her interests at heart.  
In any case, given Mrs Ws objective, and the potential benefits of the move  such as 
capital growth and lower fees  it seems the recommendation was suitable. If Mr Ws wants 
further details about specific charges, Im sure the business will help. 
Based on correspondence between Cheetham and the investigator dated July 2021, it 
seems that Mrs W and Mr W are better off having transferred their assets.  But even if it 
came to light, with the benefit of hindsight, the move wasnt beneficial, on balance I cant say 
that it was the business fault because it wouldnt have known or predicted the outcome. As 
Ive mentioned before, on balance I dont think that Mrs W wouldve done things differently. 
In other words, notwithstanding the points made by Mrs W, given that it was at the start of a 
global pandemic and subsequent government lockdown, I think Mrs W was more likely (than 
not) to have chosen to transfer her holdings. Im aware there was a lot of unpredictability in 
the markets, and a lot of movement by investors trying to do the right thing with their 
investments. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant say that the business has done anything wrong 
in terms of the transfer or is responsible for the delays  for which Im aware the transferee 
and transferor have respectively accepted some liability.  
Im mindful the investigator says that once the instructions were given the matter was largely 
out of Cheethams hands, therefore any losses arising from when the investments were sold 
and bought would also be out of its hands. Whilst Im aware that Mrs W disagrees with this conclusion, in this instance I dont think its unreasonable. In the circumstances I dont think 
the business couldve known in advance how long the transferee and/or transferor(s) would 
take. 
I appreciate Mrs W will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mrs W what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman