DRN-1915363
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Mr and Mrs M hold with Santander UK Plc. Theyre 
unhappy that theyve been on the standard variable rate (SVR) for a number of years.
Mr and Mrs M have been supported in bringing this complaint by a relative who Ill refer to as 
Mr C. Any reference to Santander in this decision should be taken to mean its previous 
name of Abbey as appropriate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have three sub-accounts on their mortgage. Two of these were subject to 
preferential interest rates that started in 2007:
The largest part (£93,500 in 2007) was taken on a product that was fixed rate at 
5.44% until 3 April 2017, and thereafter would be charged at the SVR (which at the 
time the fixed rate was taken out was 7.34%) for the remaining term of the mortgage.
£15,000 was taken on a product that was a 0.01% discount off the SVR for 120 
months (which took it until August 2017), and thereafter would be charged at the 
SVR (which by then had increased to 7.84%) for the remaining term of the mortgage
The third sub-account was a small amount of just over £2,000. That it is shown in 
August 2007 as being charged at 7.84%, so I assume this was always on the SVR.
When the two preferential rates came to an end in April 2017 and August 2017 respectively 
those two parts of the mortgage moved to the SVR as per the contracts Mr and Mrs M 
entered into in 2007. As each preferential rate period ended Santander wrote to 
Mr and Mrs M to let them know, to tell them their new monthly payments and to explain they 
should phone Santander if they wanted a new rate.
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs M transferred their mortgage onto a new preferential rate product 
which is fixed at 2.19% until 2 September 2021.
A complaint was made to Santander about the fact the mortgage was on the SVR for two 
years and that, when the rate switch was undertaken in June 2019, the July 2019 payment 
was still at the previous higher amount. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said it 
notified Mr and Mrs M that their preferential rates were ending, and that the July 2019 
payment was for June 2019 so it was correctly charged at the higher rate.
Mr C then referred matters to us. He said thered been no reduction in Mr and Mrs Ms 
interest rate until August 2019, which he said meant theyd been overcharged by about 
£6,300 (including interest) in the two-year period. He said (I quote):
[Mrs M] did contacted the local branch direct and was given a number of ludicrous 
excuses one of which was she should have requested a reduction in interest in August 
2017 which is complete and utter nonsense as no one has ever been allowed to request 
a reduction or indeed an increase in interest as it is the banks duty to notify of any rate 
changes in advance in order to allow any payment instructions to be increased or 
decreased as required.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree, saying 
(I quote):
As i had explained previously [Mr and Mrs M] had been told by Santander that it was 
their duty to apply for a reduction when the fixed rate period had expired however they 
don't expect you to apply for an increased interest rate they just increase to suit 
themselves so therefore it makes no sense to apply for a rate reduction as these are 
automatic either increase or indeed reduction.
[Mr and Mrs M] were told by Santander that they were prepared to reduce the interest 
rate charged from August 2019 but were not prepared to backdate any refund which i 
personally find questionable as it is a Banks duty to look after their customers interest 
which is most certainly not the case in this matter.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to correct Mr Cs belief that Santander had an ongoing responsibility to ensure 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was on the best rate for them. Thats not the case. The onus is on 
the customer to know what they have, at what rate and to proactively ask for advice if they 
need it. Its not Santanders responsibility to monitor Mr and Mrs Ms accounts and approach 
them with unsolicited advice on what they could do differently. When considering how many 
customers Santander has thats not at all feasible. I wouldnt like to try to estimate how many 
of Santanders mortgage customers have a preferential rate ending in any one month, and a 
lot of customers make a conscious decision to revert to the SVR.
Santander set out the details of the contract upfront in each of the mortgage offers. It then 
wrote to Mr and Mrs M when each of the preferential rates came to an end to let them know 
the new monthly payments and to remind them they could phone Santander to request a 
new rate. Information about the rates was also included in the annual mortgage statements, 
with the covering literature saying:
Looking for a new deal on your existing mortgage?
If your current mortgage deal is coming to an end, or youre paying our Standard Variable 
Rate, just call our team of Mortgage Advisers wholl be happy to advise you on your 
options.Alternatively, if youre happy to not receive advice, you could use our Online Mortgage 
Transfer Service at santander.co.uk/changing-deals. Its easy to use and you could 
select a new mortgage deal online in under 15 minutes.
Check your Feature End Date on your statement to find out when your current product 
ends. New mortgage deals can be booked up to four months before your current product 
end date.
The process of changing to a new deal with us is simple. There are no new Direct Debits 
to set up, and with no legal or valuation fees, it could save you time and money, 
compared to moving your mortgage elsewhere.
I understand Mr C thinks Santander should have done more, but it didnt have to.
Mr C has said that it is ludicrous, and complete and utter nonsense that Mr and Mrs M 
should have requested a reduction in their interest as no one has ever been allowed to 
request a reduction or an increase. He also said  they don't expect you to apply for an 
increased interest rate they just increase to suit themselves so therefore it makes no sense 
to apply for a rate reduction as these are automatic either increase or indeed reduction.
I think, from these comments, Mr C has misunderstood what has happened, and what 
Santander have said Mr and Mrs M could have done. 
When Mr and Mrs Ms preferential rates ended in 2017 they moved automatically to the 
SVR. Thats what was set out in the contracts they entered into in 2007 and thats what 
happened. Mr C is correct that the SVR will be increased or decreased by Santander, rather 
than it being the consumers choice. 
When the main part of the mortgage moved to the SVR it was, at that time, 4.49%. When the 
Bank of England base rate was increased from 0.25% to 0.50% in November 2017 
Santander reflected that by increasing its SVR from 4.49% to 4.74% at the beginning of 
December 2017. The Bank of England base rate went up again in August 2018 from 0.50% 
to 0.75%, and again Santander reflected that by increasing its SVR from 4.74% to 4.99% at 
the beginning of September 2018. Whilst it doesnt impact this complaint, I think I should 
make it clear here that Santanders SVR doesnt track the Bank of England base rate, albeit 
Santander has generally chosen to broadly reflect those changes. All the time Mr and Mrs M 
were on the SVR the Bank of England Base rate only increased (with no decreases) which is 
why they didnt see any reductions.
Whilst Mr and Mrs Ms interest rate decreased in June 2019, thats because they contacted 
Santander and applied to move their mortgage onto a new preferential interest rate; that is 
one that is fixed at 2.19% until 2 September 2021. If they hadnt done so their mortgage 
would have remained on Santanders SVR which, in 2020, has decreased.
At any point after 3 April 2017 Mr and Mrs M could have made a similar application for a new 
preferential rate product, as offered by Santander in its letters saying their previous 
preferential rates had ended and as explained in the annual mortgage statements, as well as 
being highlighted on Santanders website. I cant hold Santander liable for Mr and Mrs Ms 
decision not to make such an application and instead remain on the SVR for two years.
When the switch happened in June 2019 I understand Mr and Mrs M were expecting their 
new lower rate to take effect from the July 2019 payment, and they think the fact it remained 
higher means there was a delay in processing their rate change. But thats not so.The rate switch confirmation letter issued on 29 June 2019 confirmed the switch had taken 
effect on 27 June and that the payment due on 4 July would be £445.53. It then says that 
from 4 August Mr and Mrs Ms payments would be £137.21. Thats correct because the 
payment Mr and Mrs M made on 4 July was to cover the interest charged in June (which 
was at the higher SVR, rather than the new fixed rate). There was no delay in processing the 
change of rate, and Mr and Mrs M havent been overcharged due to any error by Santander.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman