DRN-3224412
The complaint
Mr S complains about charges being sought from him by PSA Finance UK Limited trading as
Free2Move Lease (PSA) following the return of a van that was on hire to him.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr S entered into a hire contract for a new van for a 36 month term ending
April 2020.
In January 2020 PSA wrote to Mr S to remind him his contract was coming to an end.
In March 2020 PSA wrote to Mr S a second time to remind him his contract was coming to
an end and to advise him that he would need to arrange the vans return.
A few days before Mr S contract was due to end PSA contacted him to say:
that due to the pandemic the van couldnt be collected immediately
an MOT test wasnt required
it recommended the van remained insured
the van should be parked in a safe location
it recommended photographs of the van be taken inside and out to show its condition
In response, and on the same day, Mr S contacted PSA to say that out of contract the van
wouldnt be insured and he wouldnt be responsible for any damage to it.
In July 2020 the van was collected by PSA.
In August 2020 PSA invoiced Mr S £1,171.80 for damage to the van.
Following receipt of the above invoice Mr S contacted PSA by phone to say that he accepted
eight damage charges totalling £566.00 (including two charges totalling £304.00) but not (on
the grounds this damage hadnt occurred at the time his contract had come to an end and he
had parked the van up) four charges totalling £605.80.
During the above call PSA agreed to waive two charges (not disputed by Mr S) of £304, but
none of the other ten  including the four disputed by Mr S totalling £605.80.
Mr S didnt accept PSAs offer of a partial reduction in the invoiced sum of £1,171.80 and
took the decision to pay nothing towards the sum being sought from him.
In November 2020 PSA issued Mr S with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this
FRL PSA said that it stood by the damage invoice of £1,171.80 and that this sum remained
due and owing to it (with a £304.00 reduction no longer being available).
Mr S was unhappy with PSAs response to his complaint and so he referred it to our service
for investigation.
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that PSA was
entitled to seek recovery of £1,171.80 from him for damage.
Mr S didnt agree and so his complaint was passed to me for review and decision. At
the time Mr Ss complaint was passed to me his contract was recorded as being in arrears of
£1,171.80 including with third party credit reference agencies.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities.
PSA has provided a copy of the inspection that was undertaken and which lists the 
following damages and charges supported by photographs:
right front wing  dent £36.00
front bumper  scuffed £75.00
right front seat back cover  soiled £0.00
right front door  scratched £40.00
rear bumper  scuffed £75.00
right rear load door  dent £36.00
left quarter panel  dirt in paint £0.00
left sliding door  rippled finish £152.00
front screen  scratched £342.83
left front door  dent £152.00
left front mirror assembly  broken £214.96
left front door mirror housing  missing £48.01
total £1,171.80
Its my understanding that Mr S doesnt dispute the above damages were present 
when the van was collected. Instead, he disputes that he should be held liable for the 
four items in italics because, in his view, this damage wasnt present when his 
contract came to an end and when he took the decision to park the van up ready for 
collection by PSA.
As I say above, its my understanding that Mr S doesnt dispute that he is responsible 
for the eight items of damage (not in italics) totalling £566.00. But for the sake of 
completeness, and for the avoidance of doubt, I would like to confirm that having 
considered the terms of Mr Ss contract, the appropriate BVRLA guidance and the 
inspection report (including photographs), Im satisfied that PSA is entitled to charge 
for these eight items of damage and the sum of £566.00 in this respect is an entirely 
reasonable sum for PSA to seek recovery of.I will now address the four items of damage (in italics) totalling £605.80.
First I would like to make it clear that if I was to find that Mr S should be held liable for 
these four items of damage then having considered the terms of the agreement, the 
appropriate BVRLA guidance and the inspection report (including photographs), Im 
satisfied that PSA is entitled to charge for these four items of damage and the sum of 
£605.80 in this respect is an entirely reasonable sum for PSA to seek recovery of.
Now Mr S says that he shouldnt be liable for these four items of damage on the 
grounds his contract had ended when these damages occurred.
Now I agree that if I was satisfied these four items of damage occurred after Mr Ss 
contract had ended, and after he had taken the decision to park the van up, then 
there might be grounds to say that it would be unfair for PSA to seek payment of the 
sum from Mr S of £605.80.
Now I accept I cant say for certain when this damage occurred. But having 
considered everything the parties have said and submitted, in particular PSAs advice 
to Mr S  prior to his contract coming to an end and the van being parked up  that 
he should take photographs of the van inside and out to show its condition and he 
didnt do so, Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities this damage was 
present prior to the contact coming to an end and PSA is entitled to seek recovery of 
the sum of £605.80 in respect of this damage.
Finally I would like to point out Im satisfied that PSA has done nothing wrong in 
reporting the contract, with third party credit reference agencies, as being in arrears 
of £1,171.80 and/or in default and Mr S could have always paid the individual 
damage charges he doesnt dispute. 
Neither party responded to my provisional decision by the date I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision by the date I gave, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final. 
My final decision
My final decision is that PSA Finance UK Limited trading as Free2Move Lease is
entitled to seek recovery from Mr S the sum of £1,171.80 in damage charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman