DRN-3617021
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society changed his contact e-mail address without 
his authority.
What happened
While making a loan application, Mr Os contact e-mail address across his customer profile 
was changed from his own to that of his fathers. This led to the application documents being 
sent to his fathers e-mail address. This was rectified the following day and the loan 
documents were correctly sent to his e-mail address, and the loan was later approved and 
the funds sent to his account. 
Mr O complains that there has been a breach of the General Data Protection Regulations 
(GDPR) and that there was a risk his loan funds could have been fraudulently taken by 
someone else. 
Nationwide investigated and issued a final response in which it said the e-mail address 
change came from Mr Os own browser, which had his fathers e-mail address saved into it. 
Meaning Mr O unknowingly auto-filled his fathers e-mail address onto the form when 
requesting a quote.
Mr O was unhappy with the response and referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the case and felt that based on the evidence, Nationwide was not 
responsible for the e-mail address being changed. So, they did not think Nationwide had 
made an error in the circumstances. 
Mr O disagreed with the outcome. He did not think that he had input the e-mail as a result of 
the auto-fill function, and he did not think there was evidence to support it. He also did not 
think Nationwides system should have allowed his e-mail address to be updated across his 
profile by a saved loan application. 
The investigator explained that Mr Os additional points about how Nationwides system 
updates e-mail addresses was about how theyve set up their systems, so is outside of our 
remit as a dispute resolution service. They directed Mr O to the information commissioners 
office as a more appropriate body to complain to. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigators findings, for largely the same reasons. Ill 
explain why in more detail. 
Mr O has said he does not think the incorrect e-mail was auto-filled by himself. Nationwide 
has provided some evidence, as well as notes from their IT team which I have taken into 
consideration. 
Ive firstly considered a screenshot of Nationwides internal system which shows the e-mail 
address was amended on 6 December 2021 and that this amendment was made by Mr Os 
profile and therefore Mr Os device. This coincides with the same date that Mr O began his 
loan application process. Looking at this, I think its more likely the e-mail address was input 
by Mr O himself while starting the loan application. 
Ive also considered that prior to the loan application, Mr Os fathers e-mail address had 
never been associated with his account. On balance, I think the likelihood that Nationwide 
erroneously added his fathers e-mail address to his account with no input from Mr O to be 
very low. And I think its more likely Mr O input the information himself without intending to. 
I note Nationwides IT team has suggested that the e-mail could have been added due to an 
auto-fill function and have suggested this because the part of the application process 
completed on 6 December was on a different browser to the later part of the process. I note 
Mr O has disagreed with this, and I accept theres no evidence of this occurring and its 
largely a theory made by the IT team in Nationwide. I accept its possible, but as Im already 
satisfied its more likely Mr O himself input the incorrect e-mail, I dont think this needs to be 
considered further.
I note Mr O is unhappy that the e-mail address for his profile as a whole was changed based 
on a saved loan application. Ultimately, as the investigator explained, this is not something 
our organisation is able to recommend that Nationwide change, as that is part of their 
processes. And considering I think its more likely Mr O input the e-mail himself, I dont think 
it is unreasonable that Nationwide would then use this e-mail to contact him after that point.    
My final decision
I dont think Nationwide Building Society has made an error in the circumstances and I do 
not uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman