DRN-3391978
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about her property insurance broker, Alan Boswell Insurance Brokers 
Limited (ABIB). In short, when it arranged an insurance policy for Mrs L, it misrepresented 
the risk she presented and the insurer later avoided her policy (treated it as though it had 
never existed) and, by association, declined her claim made following a fire. ABIB accepts it 
failed Mrs L but she wants it to do more to put things right than it has said its prepared to do.
What happened
Mrs L owned a dwelling, which, for a time, she rented out. She then decided to sell the 
property. She obtained planning permission to aide on the sale so buyers would know the 
existing property could be demolished and re-built. But the property wasnt put on the 
market. ABIB knew about this but didnt tell the insurer when it arranged cover for Mrs L. 
There was then a fire at the property and the insurer said it would never have offered cover if 
it had known about the planning permission. And ABIB admitted to making an error when 
applying for the cover.
Mrs L made a complaint to this service as she felt she had done nothing wrong, but 
somewhere, between the insurer and ABIB, she was the one losing out. I initially considered 
a complaint against the insurer. But given ABIBs admittance and the criteria for risk which 
the insurer was working to, I was satisfied the insurer had done nothing wrong. Our 
investigator then looked at Mrs Ls complaint as against ABIB. 
ABIB had said it would pay Mrs L £10,000 in settlement of her property claim. It said if it 
hadnt made the mistake, it would only ever have been able to agree cover for Mrs L based 
on the cost of debris removal. It said this was also likely all it could have found given what it 
referred to as the poor condition of the property at the time Mrs L was looking for cover. It 
said that it didnt think Mrs L would be affected by the avoidance in future, or that her 
premiums likely wouldnt be increased. But it said if she was, and she sought consent from it 
before arranging cover/payment, it would look to reimburse any extra costs clearly 
evidenced as being charged in relation to the avoidance. Finally, ABIB said it would offer 
£1,000 in recognition of the inconvenience its error had caused Mrs L.
Mrs L said she was prepared to accept the £1,000 for inconvenience. But she wasnt happy 
with the other two remedies suggested by ABIB. She was particularly displeased with the 
claim settlement offer. She said, if ABIB hadnt made its mistake, she would have been 
offered cover, or been able to find cover, based on the reinstatement of the property. Based 
on an estimate for works she said the reinstatement would cost £123,000, so ABIBs offer of 
£10,000 was unreasonable. 
Our investigator said it seemed unlikely that Mrs L would have found reinstatement cover. 
And he said hed seen no evidence to suggests ABIBs offer was unfair. Regarding 
premiums he said it wasnt possible to compensate Mrs L for future, hypothetical losses.  
Mrs L was unhappy with the findings. The complaint was passed for an ombudsmans 
decision to be made. 
Mrs Ls complaint then came to me for assessment. I noted ABIB hadnt provided any proof 
to show it would have been unable to find cover for Mrs L. I also noted Mrs L said she had 
previously had proof that she could have attained cover. I asked the parties to submit any 
evidence they had to support their respective positions about what cover most likely, could 
or couldnt have been found. 
ABIB said it had no proof  but surely logic dictates that as the property was in poor 
condition, its unlikely cover could have been found. And it had struggled to find cover for 
Mrs L anyway. It also said that if there had been cover, any insurer, given the condition of 
the building, would likely have opted to settle Mrs Ls claim based on the loss of market 
value for the property. It felt that would have been a negligible value, probably less than the 
£10,000 it had offered for debris removal.
Mrs L presented a report from an insurance specialist. He concluded, based on the property 
having been in a good condition but with planning permission in place to demolish, that 
Mrs L would have been able to find cover. He noted that cover would likely have been 
restricted to that known as FLEA (Fire, Lightning, Explosion and impact by Aircraft), but he 
was confident that type of cover would have been available to her.
Mrs L also explained that she is withdrawing her request for ABIB to compensate her in 
respect of future premiums. She provided an update on the property  it remains unsold and 
hasnt been repaired following the fire.
I issued a provisional decision as I felt ABIBs offer didnt go far enough to put Mrs L back in 
the position she would have been in but for its admitted failure. I said that it would have to 
pay her to reinstate the building, with what was necessary to do that and what that would 
cost being determined by a jointly appointed surveyor.
Mrs L said she accepted my findings. But asked that I state a chartered building surveyor 
must be appointed. ABIB said it was disappointed with my findings and disagreed with them. 
Its detailed response was provided by a representative, which asked that I provide various 
clarification and evidence to it on a number of points, as well as a second provisional 
decision, before making a final decision. Ive detailed and responded on the points made in 
reply below. But I am satisfied I can fairly and reasonably issue a final decision at this time.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I note ABIB accepted its error. And that Mrs L is not complaining about future premiums, or 
asking for compensation for the upset she was caused. The first issue has resolved itself 
and regarding compensation the parties have reached an agreement which I trust has been 
settled. So my findings wont refer to those issues. But I dont think, having considered the 
evidence regarding what cover would or wouldnt have been available to Mrs L, that ABIBs 
offer to pay her £10,000 in settlement of her claim goes far enough to put her back in the 
position she always would have been in but for its error. However, that doesnt mean Im 
going to require ABIB to pay Mrs L the £123,000 set out as the cost of reinstatement in the 
submitted estimate. Ive set out my views and recommended redress below. The parties will 
have a chance to consider my findings before I make a final decision on the complaint.
The evidence submitted by Mrs L, and the comments from ABIB about cover each come to a 
different conclusion. The turning point seeming to be whether or not the property was in good condition when the policy was arranged. I think its fair to say that if the property was in 
good condition its likely Mrs L could have attained FLEA cover. I say that because she has 
provided expert evidence which confirms this is the case, and ABIBs argument that cover 
couldnt have been found is predicated on the property being in poor condition. So, Ive 
considered the available evidence about the state of the property.
I first note that ABIB searched for a policy for Mrs L, agreeing one with the insurer that later 
voided her cover, on the basis the property was in a good condition. It certainly didnt 
suggest to Mrs L that it wouldnt be able to help her with cover because it was unlikely any 
insurer would offer cover for a property in a bad condition and with planning permission to 
demolish. Although that is the position that, at this time, it would have me believe was 
always the case.
I then also took note of the photos available of the property. One, provided by Mrs L, from 
2011 shows, what I would describe as, a pretty home, albeit one built with non-standard 
materials. But this is quite a long time before the policy year in question. A photo provided by 
ABIB taken after the fire in autumn 2018, shows a property in a fair state of dilapidation. But 
its far from clear, from this photo how the property was immediately before the fire  and 
importantly, several months before that when the policy was arranged. Both parties have 
presented internet street view photos of the property from 2016. They both say these same 
photos support their opposing opinions. ABIB particularly noting the grass (to the front door) 
is overgrown and shows no path through it, such as might indicate the property was in use. 
But it isnt disputed that the property was unoccupied. And the property not being occupied 
doesnt mean it was not in good condition.
The most relevant evidence about the propertys condition though, in my view, comes from 
the local council. It is most relevant in terms of time, completed in November 2017, following 
a visit that September  so it predates the policy arrangement by just a few months. And 
equates to what I consider to be expert evidence. It is the report on the property by the 
planning officer, completed after he had actually viewed the premises in 2017 for purpose of 
considering the planning application that had been made. Part of the planning officers 
assessment was to consider whether or not the property had been abandoned. I think its 
fair to say that when a property has been abandoned it often falls into a state of disrepair 
because, following the everyday definition of abandoned, no-one is caring for it.
The officer felt the property had not been abandoned. In stating his view in this respect he 
indicated the lack of occupancy was not an issue. And, importantly, he said he was satisfied 
the building is in fairly good condition with the garden appearing well maintained. I bear in 
mind that his report was made following a visit in September 2017, and it was February 2018 
when Mrs L, via ABIB at the time, was looking to arrange cover. Its possible the state of the 
property deteriorated during those two points in time. Meaning that by February 2018 it was 
not still in fairly good condition. But I havent seen anything which makes me think that is 
most likely the case. 
I accept that many insurers, even if a property is in good condition, might not want to offer 
cover where the property is unoccupied and there is planning permission in place to allow 
demolition. But ABIB hasnt showed me that cover like this couldnt be found. And even if 
I accept that it struggled to find Mrs L the cover it did  which might mean it couldnt have 
found cover if it had declared the planning permission  Mrs L has an expert who says cover 
could have been found. So if ABIB had searched for cover for Mrs L, giving the insurers it 
had access to all the relevant details, and had been unable to find cover that suited Mrs Ls 
needs  shed have been free to go elsewhere and find cover for herself. Which shes 
satisfied me it would have been possible for her to do. So Im not persuaded that ABIBs liability to Mrs L is reasonably limited to it only paying her 
to remove the debris of the property. Rather I think that but for its error, Mrs L would have 
had insurance in place to cover her for reinstatement of her property in the event of a fire 
occurring, which of course it did. Which leads me to conclude that ABIB should compensate 
Mrs L based on what it will cost to reinstate/rebuild the property  as that is what shed have 
likely been able to get, ABIBs error notwithstanding. 
I say that bearing in mind that whilst we dont know what policy Mrs L would have found, 
there are a few basic concepts that I think its reasonable to rely on here. And I think its 
necessary to do so in order for me to set out redress which is workable in practice. Theres 
no point in me telling the parties to base settlement on the policy Mrs L could have found  
because it isnt possible to now know for sure, down to the specifics of the relevant policy 
terms, what that would have been. So Ive thought about what any cover Mrs L would likely 
have been able to find, would likely have afforded her in the event of this claim.
Some insurers might include an option in their policies to allow settlement for a claim to be 
based on the loss of market value of a property like this (i.e. how much value it has lost due 
to the damage). But not all do. And where loss of market value clauses are included the 
terms of them can vary. For example Im aware of ones that only give the insurer the right to 
settle in this way where it and the policyholder arent intending to repair. And everything Ive 
seen here, points to Mrs Ls intent to repair. And I say that not least bearing in mind that the 
damaged property, since the fire, has not been put on the sale market. So its far from clear 
to me that Mrs L would have been restricted in any settlement to the propertys loss of 
market value. 
Where a property is to be reinstated/rebuilt, it is often the case that an insurer will want to 
complete the work itself. However, where insured properties are built to non-standard 
construction, an insurer will often prefer to settle any claim in cash. But, in line with this 
services approach, the sum of that cash settlement would usually be based on the 
reasonable cost to the policyholder of reinstating/rebuilding the property on a like basis. That 
is what I think ABIB is liable for to Mrs L here. And as the property was unoccupied and isnt 
Mrs Ls home theres no need for ABIBs liability to extend to loss of rent or alternative 
accommodation. Thats because as Mrs L has had no loss in these respects, she couldnt 
have gained from any policy in place in respect of them.
Mrs L has said that for reinstatement/rebuilding the settlement sum she is looking for is 
£123,000. That is the sum given by a contractor who quoted for replacement of the building 
on a like-for-like basis. However, Im not satisfied that this sum represents the cost of 
reinstating or rebuilding the property as it was before the fire. I note, for example, that the 
contractor refers to installing a tiled roof  but the roof of the damaged property was felt. It 
wasnt tiled. So despite the quote stating it has been made on a like-for-like basis, I dont 
think that I can trust that it, and the related cost figure, are most likely representative of a 
what is needed to reinstate/rebuild Mrs Ls property as it was before. As such, Im satisfied 
that £123,000 is not most likely what an insurer (found, as I say, in the circumstances where 
ABIBs error was avoided) would have paid Mrs L in settlement of this claim.
I think the only reasonable way forwards in the circumstances is to have ABIB present Mrs L 
with a list of three surveyors to choose one from. The chosen surveyor will then be 
appointed by ABIB, but on a joint basis with Mrs L, although paid for by ABIB, to assess the 
property with a view to determining what is needed to reinstate/rebuild it, and what that will 
cost. That will be based on reinstatement/rebuilding the property like it was before but with 
allowances made so the work can meet any current building regulations. If Mrs L accepts 
this decision, she will be consenting to agreeing to the surveyors findings and ABIB will be 
bound, in line with our usual rules, to follow them. But as the surveyor will be pricing the 
work necessary to reinstate/rebuild the property at current rates, I wont require interest is automatically added to the sum he determines is required. However, and whilst his report will 
be sent to both parties, once the report is submitted to ABIB, it should pay the 
reinstatement/rebuild sum to Mrs L within 14 days. If payment is made later, interest* will 
become due on the reinstatement/rebuild sum from the date of the surveyors report until 
payment is made. Nor will I require ABIB to pay VAT, if charged, upfront. If the 
reinstatement/rebuild cost, or any part of it, attracts VAT, ABIB will only have to pay the VAT 
sum to Mrs L once she submits an invoice for work completed showing VAT is due.
Ill now consider the parties responses.
the avoided policy
ABIBs response to my provisional findings mainly considered how the avoided policy, in 
terms of claim assessment and settlement, would have responded to the claim if the 
avoidance hadnt occurred. It was said this policy should be considered as it is the only good 
example of what specific terms Mrs Ls claim might likely have been subject to. The 
representative, assessing the claim against the avoided policy wanted to know that I had 
done the same and gathered evidence to satisfy myself that a claim under the avoided 
policy, but for the avoidance, would otherwise have been met. They felt any such evidence 
must be shared and this issue fully discussed before a final decision is made as they feel my 
provisional decision was silent on it.
I can confirm that I have not considered the claim against the avoided policy, nor gathered 
evidence in support of the same. That is because my provisional decision explained that, but 
for ABIBs error, the avoided policy would never have been put in place. So it isnt fair for 
Mrs Ls claim to be considered against the terms of a policy she would never have had. 
Instead Mrs L would have found a FLEA policy. And, given my experience of different types 
of insurance cover, it isnt fair to say, as ABIBs has in reply, that its likely any terms of a 
FLEA policy Mrs L found would broadly reflect those of the avoided cover (which was not a 
FLEA policy). And my provisional decision gives consideration to the fact that we dont know 
what the specific terms of any cover Mrs L did find would have been, setting out how, 
allowing for that, I think a fair and reasonable settlement for the claim can be determined. Im 
satisfied by what Ive said in this respect. 
condition of the property
In its response ABIB said that my provisional decision assumes the property would have 
been in good condition. 
In my view assumes is not a fair assessment of the findings I set out. In this respect Id 
draw ABIBs attention to the several paragraphs of findings which discuss the evidence 
available in respect of the propertys condition and explain why, based on all of that, I think 
its most likely that the property was in good condition.
financial loss
In reply ABIB said it is far from clear whether the fire has actually resulted in a financial loss 
to Mrs L. It said that, as noted in its report of 2018, its possible the damage to the building 
hasnt negatively affected the market value for the property as a whole. It feels a financial 
loss must first be fairly established.
I think this concern of ABIB misses the point. If ABIB hadnt failed Mrs L when arranging 
cover for her in 2017, Mrs L would have had a buildings insurance policy in place at the time 
of the fire which would have offered her cover against damage caused to the buildings by fire. And I explained provisionally why I felt that would have resulted in her receiving a cash 
settlement for the necessary like-for-like reinstatement work. I stand by those findings.
Mrs Ls September 2021 quote
ABIB said it is concerned that the quote is not representative of reinstating the building as it 
was before.
I agree. And explained as much in my provisional decision. Which is why I said a surveyor is 
needed to determine what work is required and at what cost. 
the surveyor
Mrs L said I should specify that this must be a chartered building surveyor. ABIB said my 
findings didnt set out that the parties must agree the instruction for the expert, or what would 
happen if agreement cant be reached.
I know Mrs L wants assurances of the type of surveyor to be appointed. But as I am not 
looking at the pool of available specialists, I cant reasonably say only one particular type 
can be used. Rather it will be up to ABIB to put forward a list of suitably qualified and 
experienced surveyors who can assess what work is needed to reinstate the building on a 
like-for-like basis, and what that will cost. How the chosen and appointed surveyor does that 
will be a matter for them. Because the surveyor is to be appointed on a joint basis the parties 
will, of course, have to agree the instructions. Its quite possible there might be some debate 
between them about this but they will have to work together to get it resolved. I cant say 
what should happen if agreement cant be reached because that hasnt happened yet and 
the circumstances of that hypothetical situation arent known. But, in any event, this 
appointment is what I find to be the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint. If Mrs L 
accepts my final decision within the deadline given, she will be, in effect, consenting to the 
remedy awarded, and ABIB will be bound to provide the same. 
staged payments and interest
ABIB said that if any insurer was cash settling this claim, it is likely theyd do so by making 
staged payments to Mrs L, as and when work is done. It feels I should make an allowance 
for that here. ABIB also said that as Mrs L hasnt reinstated the property, there has been no 
outlay for interest to be awarded against. So payment of the same would seem to put her in 
a better position than she would otherwise have been in.
It is sometimes the case that an insurer will settle a claim by making staged payments. But it 
isnt fair to say that is always how cash settlements are made. Many, as Ive said this one 
should be, are paid upfront. Often that is without VAT, with VAT being paid later. That is 
because VAT is not always incurred.
On the point of interest, this service can award interest to account for any unreasonable 
delay in settlement  we arent restricted to applying it just in situations where a financial 
outlay has already been incurred. Im satisfied that, following the surveyor making their 
report, a period of 14 days for ABIB to make the recommended settlement is reasonable. 
Any delay past this point will, therefore, be unreasonable and will cause interest to start 
accruing on the recommended and unreasonably delayed settlement amount.
in summary
Having shared my views on the complaint with both parties provisionally, Ive now 
considered their replies. In short, they havent given me cause to think a further provisional decision needs to be issued or to change my mind in any way about the findings and 
outcome provisionally stated. I remain of the view that ABIB failed Mrs L and that, if it hadnt, 
she would likely have had a policy offering the benefit of cover for fire to her in place at the 
time the property was damaged by a fire. And I also remain of the view that my 
recommended redress is, in all the circumstances, a fair and reasonable outcome for the 
complaint. As such my provisional findings, along with my responses to the parties replies, 
now form the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require ABIB, as set out in detail above, to appoint, on a joint basis with Mrs L, a surveyor 
to determine what it will cost to reinstate/rebuild the property. ABIB will then have to pay that 
sum to Mrs L (less VAT initially as explained above) in settlement of her fire claim (with any 
VAT element to be paid once a VAT invoice is submitted showing work has been done and 
VAT has  become due). If it takes more than 14 days, from the date the report is submitted 
to it, to pay the sum determined by the surveyor (initially less any VAT sum), ABIB will have 
to pay interest* on the reinstatement/rebuild sum, from the date of the surveyors report until 
payment is made.
If Mrs L submits a VAT invoice to ABIB, it will have to reimburse her the VAT sum due for 
work the surveyor found necessary, to the amount he attributed for that work. Payment will 
have to be made to Mrs L within 14 days, or the VAT sum due will attract interest*. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If ABIB considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs L, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs L a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Alan Boswell Insurance Brokers Limited to provide the 
redress as a set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman