DRN-3735425
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank Plc has held it liable for two 
chargebacks and didnt tell it about the risks of card not present (CNP) transactions.
What happened
Gs representative in this complaint explains that it has received two chargebacks for original 
card payments of £4,545 on 13 September 2021 and £5,350 on 15 September 2021. These 
were in relation to the sale of company assets. The payments were taken remotely, and the 
assets released to a courier who collected them. He says that he phoned Barclays several 
times about the payments and on all occasions Barclays told me that the transaction was 
good, and nothing was flagged up and nor did it tell him about the possibility of 
chargebacks.
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that these were high risk CNP 
transactions that had been keyed into the card terminal. And that as they were disputed by 
the genuine cardholders they couldnt be defended. Barclays said that G shouldnt have 
been taking payments for these assets by card as this wasnt the business activity that it 
agreed to process payments for.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. At Gs request time had 
been allowed to obtain the call recordings from Barclays. During one of the calls the agent 
explained that it could only check whether the transaction had been processed and not if the 
card involved had been used fraudulently. And in another that while this transaction was 
showing as approved it couldnt confirm that this would be processed and asked G to phone 
back the next day. 
Our investigator said Barclays could have done more then to explain the risks of 
chargebacks. But he also referred to the relevant parts of the terms and conditions and the 
procedure guide from Barclays that covered these risks and stated that G was responsible 
for chargebacks even if the payment has been authorised.
In particular that guide stated:
It is important that you understand the risks associated with accepting Card Not Present 
transactions. There are increased risks of chargebacks for Card Not Present transactions 
because the customer and card are not present at the time of transaction and so cannot
always be verified.
Please remember an authorisation does not guarantee payment. It only confirms that there 
are enough funds available in the account and that the card has not been reported as lost 
or stolen at the time of the transaction. We cannot guarantee that the person presenting the 
card details is the genuine cardholder and so you may be at risk of chargebacks following
fraudulent transactions.
And that the merchant shouldnt:
Release goods to anyone claiming to have been sent by the cardholder (for example, a taxi
driver) to collect the goods
Or:
Allow a cardholder to pick up goods paid for with a Card Not Present transaction. If a 
cardholder pays using an e-commerce or MOTO [mail order telephone order] 
transaction and collects the goods later, you should cancel the Card Not Present 
transaction and carry out a new Card Present transaction. Make sure you also carry 
out the full Card Present procedures.
And that in the terms and conditions it stated that:
in certain circumstances we may end this agreement by giving you immediate
written notice. These circumstances may include if selling or supplying goods or services 
that differ from the description of the goods or services you will provide as set out in the
application documents.
He said that in light of this he didnt see that Barclays should be liable for the chargebacks. It 
was up to G to ensure that those using the terminals were aware of the relevant terms and 
procedures. Barclays has confirmed that it wouldnt be terminating the agreement. But it was 
holding G responsible for the chargebacks.
G didnt agree. The representative said that this wasnt a fair outcome and that this was 
affecting him personally. There was an opportunity to stop this happening before the goods 
were released and at the least the loss should be split 50:50 with Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that the terms and conditions and guide set out the risks of CNP payments 
and that G was responsible for chargebacks. And that in signing the merchant services 
agreement G is fairly bound by the terms. I can see that on the signing page it confirmed it 
had read and understood this. And also, it is agreed that the type of transactions here were 
outside those that G had discussed with Barclays when the agreement was established.
Its a reasonable inference that the representative of G had concerns about fraud. Thats 
something he would be in a position to assess based on his contact with the person making 
the payments, any verification he could do and the arrangements for supplying the assets. 
And these concerns continued when he took the further payment. He really wanted Barclays 
to confirm that these payments werent fraudulent and had been processed.
Ive listened to the calls Barclays has provided. On one hand G did flag some points about 
the second transaction as an example that would be of concern. It had said that the payment 
was a CNP one and that the customer was coming to pick up the asset at 4pm that same 
day. On the other hand, he was told that it couldnt be confirmed that the transaction would 
go through even though it was showing as approved. And that he should call back tomorrow 
and/or try a one penny test transaction with the card. In my view that point would be relevant 
to follow up before any consideration of a chargeback. In another call the member of staff 
had made clear that it wouldnt be possible to say if the transaction is fraudulent and that no 
team in Barclays can. The representative didnt seem to want to accept that and said that 
there must be such a team. But he was clearly told that Barclays only acted as a gateway for 
processing payments.In my view I dont consider that G could reasonably have interpreted these calls as Barclays 
confirming the payments or dealing with any concerns about fraud. So, while it would have 
been helpful if the representative had been told the reasons why and about chargebacks I 
dont think that he had any assurance to rely on. Taking that together with whats been set 
out about the terms and conditions and guide above I dont find that Barclays should be 
responsible for this loss.
The point about G processing transactions outside what had been agreed in my view seems 
to highlight that this could expose both G and Barclays to additional risks. Barclays isnt 
taking any action about this on the basis that G has said that this is a one off.
Im sorry to hear that G has been the victim of a planned fraud. And that the representative 
has been greatly affected personally by what happened. The fraudster has caused a loss for 
G which has damaged its business. I fully understand why G thought it would be protected 
when subject to such a loss. But for the reasons Ive given I dont find it reasonable to 
require Barclays to bear all or part of that loss as G wants. I know that the representative will 
be very disappointed with my findings about this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman