DRN-4439116
The complaint
Mr A has complained about how Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc has handled his finance 
agreement.
What happened
Mr A bought a number of items of furniture from a third party supplier, using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi. Unfortunately, it later turned out that some of the items werent  
available, so the supplier provided a credit refund against the loan agreement for these.
However, Mr A then discovered that Hitachi was still taking his full original monthly 
repayments, and recorded a late payment marker on his credit file. He had expected the 
amounts to be lower, due to the credit refund.
Mr A then contacted Hitachi to request that he be paid the value of the credit refund directly. 
This would leave the original total sum of the agreement, but allow him to buy the 
unavailable items elsewhere. This would be preferable, as it would mean he wouldnt need 
to approach another finance provider for the funds to buy these items, which would mean a 
further creditor on his credit file. Hitachi said this wasnt possible. But it reduced the monthly 
repayments to reflect the new sum financed, and said it would remove the late payment 
marker. It said it would pay Mr A £50 in recognition of this, which he didnt accept.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. Since then, Hitachi has offered a further £75 
compensation, as it recognised it hadnt removed the marker in a timely fashion, and 
assured Mr A that it had now arranged this.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Although he understood why Mr A 
may want just one loan agreement, he explained that Hitachi had been correct in not paying 
him the cash for the unavailable items. This was because Mr As agreement was a point of 
sale loan, and a form of restricted credit. The credit must be used for the specific items, paid 
directly to the supplier. He thought that the total of £125 compensation that Hitachi had 
offered was fair, for the issues surrounding Mr As credit file.
Mr A disagreed. This was for a number of reasons, as he feels Hitachi acted unfairly. He 
feels this has affected his credit score, and hes been turned down for other loans as a result 
of the marker on his credit file.
The complaint was then passed to me. As I thought Mr A should be paid further 
compensation, I issued a provisional decision to explain my reasoning. I said as follows.
---
Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr A. Moving into a new home and furnishing 
it is a stressful and expensive time. I understand why it was very frustrating when it turned 
out that not all of the furniture was available. But our investigator is correct in saying that the 
finance agreement entered into was for specific goods - thats the nature of the product. 
Accordingly, the supplier refunded Mr As account with Hitachi for those that were 
unavailable. However, Mr A quite rightly didnt expect his repayments to remain the same. 
Hitachis correspondence and customer service fell short here. It was also exacerbated by 
not removing a marker on Mr As credit file, when it should have done  and assured him it 
would. In total, its offered him £125 compensation.
Mr A has made a number of points about whats happened. I dont refer to all of them here. 
That isnt because Ive disregarded them. Its because Ive referred to the key issues that I 
think lead to a fair outcome. Specifically, he feels hes been turned down for finance.
Lenders make decisions that are based on a number of factors, and Im unable to say 
whether the marker being unfairly applied, and then not removed in a timely fashion, led to 
Mr A having credit refused. Ive not seen any evidence that it did.
That said, its clear the matters been very stressful for Mr A, and hes had to spend 
considerable time trying to sort things out. Hitachi has offered Mr A £175 compensation, but I 
feel this should be increased, to a total of £300. I think this more fairly reflects the upset 
caused.
Its my provisional decision that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should pay Mr A a total of £300 
compensation, insofar as it hasnt already.
---
Mr A disagreed. In summary, he said:
The £50 compensation was for a totally different issue, which doesnt form part of this 
complaint. He accepted this at the time.
He was offered £75 in respect of the missed payment marker, but did not accept it, 
and hasnt been paid it.
He has not complained about not being given cash for the unavailable items, as he 
understands why this is.
He provided evidence that two lenders turned him down because of his credit score. 
Although he has other stable credit lines, his score was affected and took a long time 
to recover.
£300 is very unfair, and Hitachi needs to learn from whats happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr A isnt complaining about not receiving cash for the unavailable items. I 
apologise for referring to this, and will not consider this point further.
As regards the £50 already paid, I accept this was to do with a separate matter of 
maladministration. I referred to this to give a full background picture. I apologise if this 
caused confusion. In the remainder of my decision, I will refer only to compensation in 
respect of Mr As credit file, without taking into account the £50.
I accept that its very likely that Mr A was turned down for credit from two other lenders, 
because of the entry Hitachi made. I say this because otherwise, his score had been excellent. So, I have to consider the impact this had on him. It must have been very 
upsetting and inconvenient. But, I must be mindful that Mr A has said he had other stable 
lines of credit. So, I am satisfied that £250 is fair to represent this, and is in line with similar 
awards made by our service. I need to explain that Ive focused on the impact on Mr A 
specifically, and to remedy this. Its not my role to punish businesses, as our service is not a 
regulator.
Putting things right
To put things right, Hitachi should now pay Mr A a total of £250 compensation (insofar as it 
hasnt already). For the avoidance of doubt, this does not include the £50 already paid, 
which Im satisfied is for a separate matter.
My final decision
Its my final decision that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should take the action set out above, in the 
section entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman