DRN-4099240
The complaint
G, a company, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc blocked its account.  G wants 
compensation and to be given a reason for the block. G is represented by Mr H.
What happened
G had an account with Barclays.
Gs account was blocked on 28 December 2021. Barclays reviewed the account. Barclays 
removed the block on 29 December 2021.
Mr H has said he was embarrassed when he tried to use his card on 26 December 2021 and 
was declined. He was told by Barclays that his account was being reviewed. He visited the 
branch with photo ID. Mr H has said he spent two days trying to sort out the situation and 
couldnt carry on any business.
Barclays said they were entitled to review the account following a disputed claim and they 
were acting in line with their terms and conditions and legal and regulatory obligations.
G complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She thought 
Barclays were entitled to review the account and hadnt acted unfairly when they didnt give 
G a reason for the review.
Mr H representing G was unhappy with the view. He said his complaint was not just about 
the block but the manner in which the account had been blocked and the reasons for the 
block.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential so unfortunately, I wont be 
sharing this with G. I would like to reassure G that I have looked at all the information 
provided by both parties to decide what is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances 
of this case.
Account review
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Gs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Barclays were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Gs account. 
Barclays blocked Gs account. I can see that in blocking the account the bank were following 
an internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory 
obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say Barclays was unfair. 
I have looked at Barclays terms and conditions of the account which G agreed to. These say 
Barclays can block an account or card in certain circumstances. Im satisfied having looked 
at the evidence that Barclays were entitled to block Gs account to review it, so I dont think 
they have done anything wrong by doing so.
Reason
Mr H has said he wants to know the reason why his account was blocked. He says he has 
been a customer of Barclays for many years, and he thinks Barclays shouldnt have blocked 
the account because a disputed claim was made against G. He said it must have been an 
employee of Barclays who implemented the threat, and it was only his intervention in branch 
that caused Gs account to be unblocked.
Mr H believes that Barclays didnt carry out a genuine review and that in fact there was no 
review of Gs account at all. He says Barclays didnt ask him any questions about the 
payments into his account. I appreciate that Mr H might think that Barclays should follow 
certain steps if they carry out a review of an account but how Barclays carries out its reviews 
is a matter for them. Im satisfied that Barclays did carry out a review of Gs account.
I appreciate that Mr H has found this situation very upsetting and frustrating. I can see from 
his statements that his account is in substantial credit, and he operates his accounts well 
with no problems. However, it is part of Barclays process to investigate a claim however 
small and this may seem ridiculous to Mr H. This is what I would have expected Barclays to 
do, and I dont think they have acted unfairly when they blocked Gs account and carried out 
a review. I know Mr h was concerned so I have checked and I have seen no evidence that 
Barclays acted unfairly when they blocked the account or that it was somehow a personal 
grievance or whim on their part to do so. As Ive said I think Barclays review was in line with 
the terms of their account and their procedures and what I would have expected in this sort 
of situation. I wont be asking them to do anything else here.
I know Mr H wants to know the reason for the review, but Barclays arent obliged to give him 
a reason. As the investigator has explained, Barclays is under no obligation to provide this 
information to Mr H, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say Barclays have done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr H this information. I have looked at the information provided 
by Barclays, and Id like to reassure Mr H that Barclays have followed their process I would 
expect them to, and they havent caused any unnecessary delay in the review of Gs 
account. 
Mr H has asked for compensation because during the two days of the block on Gs account 
he wasnt able to concentrate on carrying out his normal business.  I accept the distress and 
inconvenience that Mr H had when he had to try and sort out Gs account block. As Ive 
mentioned, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly in blocking the account so although I 
acknowledge the problems this caused G and Mr H I wont be asking Barclays to pay 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons sated above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman