DRN-3548045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about a second charge loan they have with Central Trust Limited. 
Theyre unhappy about the amount they have been charged in interest on the loan and they 
believe they should have been charged a lower rate. 
A separate Ombudsmans decision has been issued relating to our rules and what our 
service can and cant consider. The Ombudsman found that our service can only consider 
part of this complaint and that is the complaint about the application of interest from August 
2013.  
My decision here will therefore only comment on the aspects of the complaint that relate to 
the events that occurred from August 2013. 
What happened
I have only briefly summarised the events and submissions from the parties here. But Id like 
to reassure Mr and Mrs W that I have considered all that has been provided and where I 
havent referred to something specifically its not because Ive ignored it, its because I dont 
think its material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W took out a £20,000 loan in 2007 with Central Trust. The loan was secured on 
their property, was to be repaid over a 12 year term and had a variable interest rate. Mr and 
Mrs W are unhappy with the way they have been treated by Central Trust and believe they 
have paid too much interest on the loan. 
After complaining to Central Trust Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service. After 
determining that we could consider some of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint the investigator 
explained that they didnt believe Mr and Mrs W had been treated fairly when considering the 
application of interest on their specific mortgage account. As a result, Central Trust made an 
offer to reduce the interest rate applied to Mr and Mrs Ws loan to 9.0% from August 2013, 
which is six years before the complaint was made. Additional interest of 8% simple per year 
would also be added to each over payment. Central Trust also explained that the interest 
rate on Mr and Mrs Ws account had been set at 0% (zero) from December 2019, because 
Central Trusts policy is not to charge interest on loans that go beyond the end of the original 
term. 
The investigator felt this offer was fair and explained this to Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W 
didnt agree so the complaint has been referred to me to make a decision as the last stage in 
our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer that Central Trust has made in this case is fair and 
reasonable and I do not consider there to be grounds to instruct Central Trust to do 
anything more than it has already offered.
Central Trust has now offered to reduce the amount owed on Mr and Mrs Ws loan by 
recalculating the interest that has been applied between August 2013 and August 2019. The 
rate applied will be reduced to 9%. It says it has done this after considering Mr and Mrs Ws 
particular circumstances. The reasoning behind this has been shared with Mr and Mrs W 
and Im satisfied the explanation is sufficient to demonstrate what factors have been 
included and considered in the calculation. The calculation essentially means a lower rate of 
interest has been applied to the account from August 2013 to August 2019, when the rate 
was reduced further to zero.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W remain unhappy with this offer but having considered the specific 
circumstances of their complaint Im satisfied it is reasonable. The reduced rate of 9% would 
I understand be lower than the rate that would apply if Mr and Mrs Ws interest rate had 
followed the changes in Central Trusts cost of funding. And would also be lower than the 
rate that would have applied had Mr and Mrs Ws interest rate followed the changes in 
BoEbr, up to August 2019, when their rate was reduced to 0%. I appreciate Mr & Mrs W 
would prefer that a lower rate is applied to their account, but Im not persuaded in the 
circumstances here there are grounds to instruct Central Trust to do this. 
Mr and Mrs Ws loan balance has received a 0% interest rate since August 2019 and I 
understand this will continue moving forward as the original loan term has passed and 
Central Trust has explained it doesnt charge interest on outstanding balances that have 
passed the original loan end date. This seems reasonable in my view. 
Should Mr and Mrs W accept my decision and the offer from Central Trust, the amount 
calculated will then be applied to the outstanding account balance to reduce the overall 
amount owed. Should this clear the outstanding balance any remaining amounts will be paid 
directly to Mr and Mrs W.  
 
If the above recalculation results in a remaining outstanding balance, given Mr and Mrs Ws 
financial circumstances, they may want to discuss an affordable repayment plan with Central 
Trust. I remind Central Trust that they have an obligation to treat customers in financial 
difficulty with due consideration and forbearance.
My final decision
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W will likely remain unhappy with the outcome here, but my 
final decision is that Central Trusts offer is fair and reasonable. I direct Central Trust to:
Recalculate the interest applied to the account assuming a rate of 9.00% per annum 
is applied from August 2013 to December 2019;
Add simple interest at 8% a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made until the date they are applied to the account*;
Apply any overpayments and interest against the outstanding balance;
Continue to apply a 0% rate of interest from December 2019, as theyve already 
agreed to do;
If after the adjustment the account is fully settled any remaining sums should be paid 
directly to Mr and Mrs W.  
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Central Trust deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr and Mrs W request it, Central Trust should give them a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman