DRN-3621302
The complaint
The Estate of Mr B complains that National Savings and Investments (NSI) delayed 
repayment of premium savings bonds.
What happened
Mr B held premium savings bonds (PSB) of £25,050. He sadly died in March 2020 and his 
will appointed his son (Mr IB) and his sons wife as executors. A Lasting Power of Attorney 
(LPA) appointed Mr IB as attorney for property and financial affairs. 
The eligible complainant here is the Estate of Mr B, but as the contact with us and NSI has 
been Mr IB (on behalf of the estate), I will refer to Mr IB in this decision.
Mr IB wrote to NSI on 2 April 2020, 23 May 2020 and 2 July 2020. He sent NSI the claim 
form, death certificate, copy of Mr Bs will and the PSB certificate. NSI asked for a Grant of 
Probate (GOP). Mr IB obtained a GOP on 23 June 2021 and the funds were paid to him on 
23 July 2021.
Mr IB, on behalf of the Estate of Mr B complained. He said that a GOP wasnt needed. He 
quoted the gov.uk website which said that You may not need probate if the person who 
diedonly had savings and premium bonds. He said other firms hadnt needed a GOP, and 
NSI should do the same.  He also said that the PSB had disappeared from his online profile 
 so he thought the money had been lost.
In December 2020, NSI said they were bound by the rules and law relating to probate  
whereby of the total value of savings exceeds £5,000, they reserved the right to request a 
GOP. And as the PSB holding exceeded that value, they asked for a GOP. The rules apply 
to all financial institutions. NSI said that once a GOP was obtained, the funds would be paid 
without delay. NSI said the accounts had been removed from Mr IBs online portfolio 
because once they were notified that the donor of the LPA had died, the LPA was no longer 
valid and therefore Mr IB couldnt operate the accounts.
Mr IB, for the Estate of Mr B, brought the complaint to us. Our investigator said NSI acted 
fairly.  He agreed that NSI could ask for a GOP.  And on the government website  he noted 
that it only said that probate may not be needed. And NSI couldnt be held responsible for 
the government website. Once the GOP had been obtained, the funds were paid to Mr IB as 
soon as possible  but this was longer than normal because of the impact of the pandemic.
Mr IB, for the Estate of Mr B, didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at the estates 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, let me say I was sorry to hear of Mr IBs loss, and I understand that in those 
circumstances, he must have wanted to deal with his late fathers affairs effectively. And 
what happened must therefore have been stressful and worrying for him.
That said, my role is to decide whether NSI acted fairly and reasonably we are an informal 
dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair decisions where there is a complaint 
about a financial business. We do this based on the facts of the case as we see them, 
having taken evidence from both parties. We dont take sides. 
 
The crux of Mr IBs complaint is that NSI asked for a GOP  whereas other firms didnt. He 
says that the government website says that a GOP isnt needed if the person that dies only 
had savings and PSBs. Ive thought about this. The rules regarding Probate are clearly set 
out  that is, where savings exceed £5,000 (as they did in this case), then a GOP might be 
needed. And NSI decided that they wanted a GOP  as they were entitled to do. 
Mr IB says that no other organisation needed a GOP. I cant comment on the policy of other 
firms  as I dont have the details of the value of assets they were dealing with. And its for 
each firm to decide on its policies in each case. For example, in my experience, a firm might 
release money (even if over £5,000) against an indemnity signed by the recipient, but on a 
case by case basis.
I considered the government website. We cant hold NSI responsible for what is published 
on a government website. But I dont think it says that a GOP is not needed as it does say 
You may not need probate and goes on Contact each asset holder (for example a bank 
or mortgage company) to find out if youll need probate.Every organisation has its own 
rules.  In other words, it is not definitive and says that each firm should be asked for its 
policy.
Mr IB has said that the PSBs disappeared from his online account  and he didnt know why. 
I can understand that must have been confusing for him. But I agree with NSI  as soon as 
they were advised of Mr Bs death, the LPA became redundant. That was because the donor 
of it had died. And so  Mr IB could no longer operate his late fathers accounts under the 
LPA. 
Mr IB has also said that after he had got the GOP  NSI took a long time to pay the monies 
to him. I can see this took four weeks. We asked NSI about this and they told us their normal 
timescales were three to five working days. But in this case, they were affected by the 
pandemic  the department in India (which made such payments) was closed down because 
of the pandemic in May 2021. They had to reorganise their payment processes by bringing 
them back to the UK. And  this affected their normal timescales. In the circumstances of the 
pandemic, I can accept the reason for the slight delay (of about three weeks) in the payment 
of funds to Mr IB.
I appreciate how strongly Mr IB feels about this complaint and will therefore be disappointed 
by my decision. But I am not going to ask NSI to do anything here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman