DRN-4305492
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with the repair of his car following a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Mulsanne includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Fs car went for repair following a claim under his motor insurance policy and had to be 
returned to the repairer for rectification work. But his car was returned to him without being 
fully repaired as the repairer wouldnt provide Mr F with a courtesy car which he needed.
When Mr F complained about this Mulsanne acknowledged it didnt deal with his claim very 
well and offered £200 by way of compensation. But Mr F remained unhappy, so he 
complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F and upheld his complaint. She thought that the 
£200 compensation Mulsanne offered was fair, but she thought Mulsanne should either 
repair Mr Fs car (while providing a courtesy car or paying for a hire car) or pay a cash-in-lieu 
(CIL) settlement.
As Mulsannes agent hasnt responded the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld, Ill explain why. 
It is accepted that Mulsannes agent didnt deal with the claim very well which is why it 
awarded £200 compensation to Mr F which I feel is fair. So I will focus on the key remaining 
issue in this decision, the finalisation of the repair of Mr Fs car.
Mulsannes repairing garage wouldnt provide Mr F with a courtesy car to finalise the 
rectification work as it had problems with the courtesy car it had previously provided  I 
understand Mr F had a courtesy car vandalised while in his possession previously. I havent 
been provided with a great deal of detail about this, but I would expect Mr F to have been 
provided with a courtesy car as he had simply been a victim of crime here and his car should 
have been repaired properly in the first instance. 
As such I wouldve expected Mulsanne to provide a different repairer or ensured Mr F was 
provided with a courtesy car or hire car while the repairs were undertaken. And so, in order 
to put Mr F back into the position he should have been, I think it would be fair for it to do this 
now or to pay Mr F a CIL settlement.
Finally, Mr F has raised concerns around the locking wheel nuts on his car being damaged 
and so he wants them paid for or repaired as part of his claim. But the independent engineer 
who inspected his car didnt identify any damage attributed to the original repair. However, it 
would appear that there were issues in relation to the locking wheel nuts originally and Ive 
seen some damage identified around the wheel nuts on pictures provided by Mulsanne. So, I 
think it would be fair for this to be reconsidered as part of the repair process. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited 
should pay Mr F a cash-in-lieu settlement for the repair of his car or appoint a repairer to 
undertake the remaining repairs to Mr Fs car. And pay £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman