DRN-3781719
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted unfairly by 
continuing to apply overdraft charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss B complained to Nationwide that the overdraft charges applied to her account were 
causing financial difficulties. Nationwide didnt uphold her complaint. It says all charges were 
applied in-line with the terms and conditions of the account. And as Miss B was dis-satisfied 
she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Nationwide 
ought to have realised that Miss B was experiencing financial difficulties by June 2020 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Nationwide disagreed  it says Miss B always credited the account with enough transfers in 
and wages to see a credit balance and that Miss Bs financial difficulties were caused by 
discretionary spending. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Nationwide acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Miss Bs 
account from June 2020. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss B was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Miss Bs statements show that up until July 2019 Miss B was using her overdraft but regular 
credits into her account meant she saw a credit balance most months. But after this point 
Miss B went further into her overdraft and her account became permanently overdrawn. I 
accept that some of Miss Bs expenditure was on discretionary transactions, but the vast 
majority of transactions was on everyday living and essential bills - where on occasion the 
direct debits for these were returned. 
Nationwides own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Miss Bs overdraft usage 
should have prompted Nationwide to have realised that Miss B wasnt using her overdraft as 
intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Nationwide didnt 
react to Miss Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Nationwide didnt treat Miss B fairly and she lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from June 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Miss B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Nationwide 
to reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Bs credit file, Nationwide should reflect what would have 
been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the 
overdraft in June 2020. Nationwide can also reduce the overdraft limit by the 
amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so 
wouldnt leave Miss B over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Nationwide Building 
Society should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman