DRN-4320563
The complaint
Miss J is complaining about Secure Trust Bank PLC trading as Moneyway. She says they 
were irresponsible in lending to her. Miss Js complaint was brought to our service by a 
representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with her.
What happened
In January 2019, Miss J took out a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway to finance the 
purchase of a car. She borrowed £12,000, which was the cash price of the vehicle. The 
agreement required Miss J to make 59 monthly repayments of £338.50 and a final 
instalment of £348.50  so the total amount payable was £20,320. Miss J looked to settle the 
agreement early on several occasions and ultimately did so in September 2022.
In September 2022, Miss J complained to Moneyway, saying they hadnt conducted 
thorough, appropriate and reasonable checks when deciding to lend to her. She said the 
level of borrowing she took out around the time of the agreement reflected her dependence 
on borrowing. 
Moneyway didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. They said Miss J had told them her monthly 
income was £1,471. Theyd used her credit file to assess the amount she paid towards debts 
and revolving credit, and used statistical data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to 
estimate her cost of living including rent. This was based on Miss J being a single council 
tenant  which is what shed told Moneyway. 
When they added up Miss Js estimated expenditure, including the proposed repayments 
under this agreement, the total was around £1,278 per month. As this was less than Miss Js 
income, they concluded that the finance was affordable for Miss J. Moneyway also said 
theyd used one of the credit reference agency (CRA) tools to check that Miss Js income 
was higher than her expenditure.
Moneyway added that many of Miss Js payments were ahead of schedule which led to the 
agreement being settled 15 months early. 
Miss J was unhappy with Moneyways response so brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it but didnt uphold it. He said from the evidence hed 
seen, he thought Moneyway had probably conducted reasonable and proportionate checks 
and made a fair lending decision. He added that hed looked at the bank statements 
provided to us by Miss J and these didnt suggest Miss J was struggling financially. In 
summary, he said the evidence hed reviewed suggested the repayments were affordable for 
Miss J.
Miss J replied, saying she had contractual debt of over £10,000 at the time of taking the 
lending and had had three late payments on her water bills in the six months prior to 
borrowing. And she said shed opened three new credit accounts in the six months prior to 
borrowing which showed her dependence on credit. She said looking at her bank 
statements, her expenditure was higher than her income and the loan was therefore 
unaffordable. Because Miss J disagreed with our investigator, the complaint was referred for 
a decision  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Miss J, Im not upholding her 
complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as our investigators  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneyway carry out proportionate checks?
Moneyway said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Miss Js credit file;
used ONS data to estimate Miss Js expenditure; and
used one of the CRA tools to check that Miss Js income exceeded her expenditure.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, and the cost of credit. Miss J was largely dependent on benefits, 
and the repayments on the hire purchase agreement were around 23% of her stated income. 
So the checks needed to be thorough. 
Moneyway said Miss Js credit file didnt give them any cause for concern. And they used the 
information contained within the credit file to determine that Miss J needed to pay £18 per 
month against unsecured loans and around £12 per month against her credit cards. Ive 
looked at the credit report Moneyway used and I can understand why this didnt give them 
cause for concern. And I can see where they got the repayment figures from  as well as the 
loan repayments shown on the credit file they calculated 3% of Miss Js credit card balance 
and used this as an estimate of what shed need to pay.
I appreciate Miss J said she had debt of around £10,000 at the time of the lending  much 
higher than is shown on the credit report Moneyway looked at. I can see the main difference 
was an existing car finance agreement that Miss J says shed taken on around six months 
before this one. Ive not seen any evidence relating to this car finance agreement, or Miss Js 
copy of her credit file. Similarly, I havent seen evidence of the late payments on water bills 
that Miss J mentioned. And I cant say Moneyway should have been aware of something that 
wasnt reported by the CRA they used. 
I can see from Moneyways credit report that Miss J opened three credit accounts in the six 
months before entering into this agreement, as she mentioned in response to our 
investigators view. But at the time of the lending, one had a zero balance, another would be 
paid off imminently, and the third was a modest unsecured loan with monthly repayments of 
£18. I wouldnt consider these to be an indicator that Miss J was dependent on credit.
CONC allows firms to use statistical data in their affordability assessments unless they have 
reason to suspect that a customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than 
that described in the data. I dont think Miss Js credit file gave Moneyway a reason to think Miss Js expenditure differed significantly from the average. And I havent seen anything else 
in the information Moneyway had at the time to suggest ONS data might not have been 
appropriate for Miss J.
CONC also says that firms shouldnt rely solely on a statement from a customer to verify a 
customers income. Moneyway said they used a CRA tool to check that Miss Js income 
exceeded her expenditure but its not clear whether they used the CRA tool to verify the 
amount of her income or simply used the income figure Miss J had given them. That makes 
it difficult for me to say Moneyway did proportionate checks  I cant see that they verified 
her income and I think proportionate checks needed to include this step.
If Moneyway had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
As Ive explained above, I think Moneyway should have independently verified Miss Js 
income using some third-party information, for example bank statements, benefit statements 
or a CRA tool. 
However, if they had done, Im satisfied theyd likely have found Miss Js income was at least 
the £1,471 shed told Moneyway she received. I say this because I looked at Miss Js bank 
statement for October 2018 and Miss J received around £1,700 in benefits that month. 
This figure was significantly higher than Miss Js stated income and significantly higher than 
the expenditure Moneyway had estimated  so Im satisfied they could have fairly decided to 
lend to Miss J. I havent carried out an analysis of Miss Js expenditure because, as Ive 
explained above, I think it was reasonable for Moneyway to use ONS figures. 
In conclusion, although on balance Im not satisfied Moneyway did proportionate checks, Im 
satisfied that if they had, they could have fairly lent to Miss J.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint about Secure Trust Bank PLC 
trading as Moneyway.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman