DRN-3113320
The complaint
Mr W complaints Credit Resource Solutions Ltd (CRS) havent treated him fairly when 
collecting a debt of his.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and wht I thought was a fair 
resolution to that. Ive copied the relevant elements of that provisional decision below, and 
they form part of this final decision. 
Mr W said in 2016 / 2017 he had four accounts in his name, which CRS were collecting on 
behalf of his creditors. He said he was threatened with court action, and in a panic agreed to 
make a monthly repayment which wasnt sustainable. 
Mr W said he knows we cant consider that complaint but provided CRS response as it gives 
some context to his current complaint. CRS reply to that complaint does, in short, accept 
theyve not handled things as they should have done, and they say sorry for that. 
Mr W has let us know he suffers from a number of mental health conditions. Out of respect 
for his privacy Ive not listed them here, but I want him to know Ive seen what hes told our 
service and CRS about his conditions.
In January 2020 CRS picked up another one of his accounts to collect  and Mr W was 
signed off his work due to his mental health conditions for January and February 2020. Mr W 
said he finds the messages from CRS threatening and intimidating, and they had a severe 
impact on how he was feeling. He said he was threatened with a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ). In resolution of his complaint hes told us he doesnt want to deal with CRS, wants 
reassurance hes being treated fairly, wants to know his previous complaint was taken into 
account, no threatening texts and wants conversations instead. Hed also like some 
compensation. 
On 11 August 2020 CRS said they understood Mr W was concerned over the way in which 
hes been contacted by them as he feels its harassment and is causing him extreme mental 
health issues. CRS said hed also asked for a SAR, and a copy of the original signed lending 
agreement that was the subject of the debt. CRS explained they didnt hold the agreement, 
so said Mr W would need to contact the lender directly as its still their account. And in 
relation to the contact CRS said Mr Ws account was originally sent to them on 
10 December 2019, and as no payments had been made by 9 July 2020 this had been 
escalated to their legal department. CRS said the intent of their communication wasnt to 
cause any distress to Mr W, rather it was to keep their customers informed of where their 
account is in the process. Because of this, CRS said they wouldnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
 
Mr W replied to CRS the same day and asked how saying a successful CCJ against you 
could affect your ability to obtain credit is keeping him informed. He said it was passively 
threatening. He added this wouldnt be an issue if hed not previously been bullied by CRS  
and said as theyd previously threatened him its not unreasonable he finds their contact 
methods affecting his mental health. 
On 21 August 2020 Mr W hadnt received a reply to his previously emailed questions  but 
had received a text message. The text from CRS said: your solicitors have issued a letter 
before claim. Mr W said he had to call CRS to find out what this was and having been told it 
meant CRS would be asking him to repay the debt he wanted this raised as a formal 
complaint as well. The reason for that is because Mr W says he was told on 14 July 2020 his 
account was on indefinite hold  and hed not had any communication to say when this 
would end. 
CRS investigated this contact. They explained theyd listened to the call Mr W had with them 
on 14 July 2020 where he was told his account would be placed on hold. They said this was 
on the understanding hed joined the lenders scheme of arrangement. But it was later 
confirmed hed not joined the scheme, so the account was removed from being on hold, and 
thats when the Letter Before Claim (LBC) was issued on 21 August 2020. As a result of this, 
CRS didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Unhappy with this Mr W asked us to look into things. Ive listened to the call when Mr W first 
contacted our service, as hes explained thats when he gave most of the relevant 
information regarding his case and reflected his comments in the background of this 
complaint.
One of our Investigators did consider Mr Ws case and initially felt CRS had acted fairly  
because Mr Ws account was only on hold due to him being in the members scheme of 
arrangement. But our Investigator said hed seen the email from the lender to CRS saying 
Mr W wasnt in that scheme. So, he didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. 
Mr W didnt agree, and he said he didnt receive the LBC. He received a text telling him the 
letter would be sent and agreed to wait for it. But before the LBC arrived, he said he received 
a different letter telling him off for not replying to the LBC  which is how he knew hed not 
received it. Mr W also said he wanted to understand our investigators view on the text 
messages  which says what will happen if a CCJ is issued, but with no constructive 
guidance. Mr W referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) paper on how financial 
businesses such as CRS should treat people with vulnerabilities. The FCA regulate financial 
businesses, and Mr W said hed argue such text messages are inappropriate for someone 
whos previously been bullied into an unaffordable arrangement. Mr W felt the most 
appropriate thing would have been for CRS to have called him. Mr W added that CRS had 
told Mr W the account would go on hold while we investigated things, but theyve continued 
to take money every month anyway. 
Our Investigator reconsidered things. He explained he didnt think CRS communications 
were threatening, instead he felt they were factual  though he accepted they could be 
upsetting to read. But he didnt think there was enough evidence to prove the letter had been 
sent so he felt £50 compensation was a fair way to resolve matters.  
Mr W didnt agree and asked for his case to be passed to an ombudsman to decide. 
CRS also didnt agree and provided some additional information they said proved the LBC 
had been sent. They asked this information is forwarded to me to take into account when 
deciding Mr Ws case.
Before progressing with Mr Ws case, I had a number of questions for him, and CRS. 
For Mr W I wanted to understand if hed got any evidence of specifically asking them to only 
ever call him. He replied and said he couldnt recall ever telling them this  but said hed 
clearly explained to them numerous times that he suffers from mental health issues, their 
texts make this worse, and hes asked them not to send these texts. I also wanted to know what specifically he was referring to in the FCA paper  and he said he was talking about the 
section that says companies should consider their communication style with vulnerable 
customers. He said when hes asked CRS to stop the texts theyve said they cant because 
its part of an automated process. Mr W said that given theyve previously admitted bullying 
him, hed have expected the company to take the initiative and suggest to him he only be 
contacted by phone.
For CRS I also asked them if Mr W had made them aware of only wanting to be contacted 
by phone  and they said they had no record of this. I asked if they could put something in 
place to call Mr W, before sending him a text, email or letter  and they said all 
correspondence is sent out automatically, so they couldnt do this. I wanted to know if they 
were still responsible for collecting the debt  and they said this account of Mr Ws had been 
passed over to one of their subsidiaries in August 2021. I also explained one of Mr Ws ideal 
resolutions was for CRS to never deal with any of his debts again, as hed mentioned he had 
some out there. CRS said they dont buy debts, they work on behalf of their clients and 
follow their instructions for collecting the debt. They added as they dont know who Mr W has 
debts with, and who might become a future client of CRS, they couldnt commit to saying 
theyd never hold an account for Mr W again.
Ive now provisionally decided this case.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Mr Ws account have been kept on hold  and did they send the LBC telling him 
theyd taken the account off hold
Mr W says he was told in a phone call his account would be put on an indefinite hold. CRS 
says this was only because Mr W said he was in the lenders scheme  and when they 
realised he wasnt, they took his account off hold.
Mr W has since accepted he thought he was in the scheme but actually wasnt. With that in 
mind, I dont think CRS acted unfairly in taking his account off hold. Mr W had an 
outstanding debt where monies were legitimately owed  something Mr W hasnt disputed.
At the time of taking the account off hold, CRS say they sent the LBC to Mr W to make him 
aware of this. Mr W says he never received it.
Our Investigator felt CRS hadnt properly demonstrated theyd sent the letter, so awarded 
£50. This isnt something CRS agreed with and provided additional evidence to say theyd 
sent it.
This evidence was in the form of information from their mail house provider which they say 
shows the letter was sent  combined with their internal notes showing it was sent.
The evidence theyve provided is consistent with other letters Mr W has said he did receive, 
and I cant see any reason why theyd deliberately not have sent it - so I think its likely CRS 
did send this letter.
I dont disbelieve Mr W when he says he didnt get it. Hes said he was waiting for it and I 
think had he received it then hed have taken some action off the back of it. But post can go 
missing, so it seems this is a possible explanation for why it seems to have been sent but 
not received. In any event though, I can only hold CRS responsible if theyve done something wrong, and 
here I think its likely they did send the letter. So, I wont be awarding the £50 our 
Investigator did.
Are the content of CRS emails, texts or letters inappropriate
CRS have said their written communication is informative and designed to keep Mr W 
informed as to where his account is in the process.
Mr W has said the communication is threatening, and has pointed to one of their text 
messages which said a successful CCJ against you could affect your ability to obtain 
credit. He asks how is this meant to be informative.
Ive looked at all of the communication Mr W has received and I do think its been in keeping 
with the kind of things Id expect a debt collector to say, when a balance is owed on a debt. I 
think CRS have kept Mr W updated with whats happening with his account at different times 
and have encouraged him to get in touch to agree a repayment proposal. In respect of the 
text message given the seriousness of a CCJ I think itd be considerably worse if they didnt 
say what the impact might be. So, I dont think CRS have sent Mr W inappropriate written 
communication.
In part, the seriousness of the messages escalated, because CRS wrote to Mr W but he 
didnt get in touch. This, again, is something I dont find to be particularly unusual or unfair. It 
seems CRS were writing to Mr W between January and July 2021 without reply  so I cant 
say theyve acted unfairly in escalating the debt through their process when theyd not had 
contact from Mr W.
I think the key issue here, is how these messages are perceived by Mr W. Hes explained in 
detail how the written communication affects him. So, having found that, objectively, the 
written communication hasnt been inappropriate or threatening to Mr W  I need to consider 
whether CRS should have followed his preferences for how to be contacted.
Should CRS have communicated with Mr W differently
Mr W has said he wanted to only be spoken to on the phone. Hes told us he never explicitly 
said this to CRS, but given his previous issues expected them to do this.
CRS have also said theyd not been made aware by Mr W previously he only wanted to 
speak on the phone.
I can understand Mr Ws point. Given hes previously had a bad experience with CRS its not 
necessarily unreasonable for him to expect them to take some action to try and improve the 
way their communication is received by him  by, for example, calling him before sending 
out written communication. But, by the same token, I have to say its not unreasonable for 
him to have explicitly told them he needed communication through the phone first.
Hes not done that. And Ive not seen anything to show CRS should have known from the 
previous complaint they should contact Mr W by phone first either. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably say CRS have acted unfairly when initially contacting Mr W. At this time, they 
didnt know Mr W wanted to be contacted by phone first.
Ive also considered what happened after he told them about his concerns with their 
communication. I think here is where CRS needed to do more. Mr W said hed told them he found their texts threatening, and made his health worse, and 
he asked them not to send those texts. CRS reply, then to Mr W, and more recently to the 
questions Ive asked, is to say their communication is automated so they couldnt stop them.
We asked Mr W for emails showing what hed said to CRS  and the first evidence Ive been 
provided with to show when he told them about their texts was 13 July 2020. In this contact, 
hes told them that hed received two text messages in the last week which he said the 
intention of them was to scare him into making payments. He also explained their contact 
was having an extreme effect on him.
Mr W has referred to the FCAs paper Guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable 
customers. 
This sets out a number of different requirements for financial businesses like CRS in how 
theyll deal with customers like Mr W who meet a definition of a vulnerable consumer. 
Theres a lot of guidance here for financial businesses like CRS to have applied, but having 
reviewed their actions since then, Im not sure theyve really taken account of Mr Ws 
vulnerabilities.
Having written to them on 13 July 2020 setting out their contact was causing him extreme 
distress I cant see theyve taken any steps to understand how they can communicate more 
effectively with Mr W  as suggested in the guidance.
Mr W has specifically said that a phone call before written communication would help him. In 
response, CRS have explained to him and our service their written communication is 
automated so they cant do anything about that.
The FCAs guidance does recommend financial businesses systems need to be flexible  
and specifically says respond to customer needs throughout product design, flexible 
customer service provision and communications. This is just one example from the 
guidance, in truth I could have chosen quite a few more to illustrate this point.
So, it would seem that CRS dont have a system designed to provide flexible customer 
service  given their responses to Mr Ws requests. I cant interfere in their processes, but I 
can look at the impact on Mr W as a result of this.
I think its clear that, at the point Mr W got in touch with CRS and reminded them of their 
previous conduct which they said sorry for, they could have done more. Ive not seen any 
suggestions they asked Mr W how best to communicate with him or attempted to make 
things easier in any way  for example by asking him what they could do to adjust their 
communication so it didnt have as much of an impact on him. I think its appropriate to 
award compensation for this.    
Current position of the debt  and potential future debts
Both Mr W and CRS have said CRS arent collecting the debt anymore. I understand its 
been passed over to a subsidiary of theirs. Mr W has said hed address this directly with the 
legal owner of the debt. Given that, its outside the scope of this complaint, so I wont be 
saying anything further regarding the existing debt in this decision.
Ive noted one of Mr Ws ideal resolutions would be for CRS never to have another one of his 
accounts. Theyve said they dont know how many debts Mr W has out there, or who of their 
clients might allocate the debt.
I cant tell financial businesses like CRS not to ask for repayment of a debt, so I dont have 
any power to stop them from collecting any debt of Mr Ws in future. What I might suggest is if CRS get another debt before contacting Mr W they try and review their history if possible. 
And, for Mr W, if CRS do get in touch and hes able to, he tells them exactly how hed like to 
be communicated with. I realise in this complaint CRS have said they wouldnt be able to do 
what hes asked based on the current way they work  but it at least gives Mr W the 
opportunity to try and prevent any additional stress in future.
Summary
Overall, Ive found CRS have treated Mr W fairly for the majority of his complaint. But I think 
they could and should have done more after he got in touch on 13 July 2020. For those 
issues, taking into account Mr Ws health, I think compensation of £250 is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W replied, and said he was happy with my provisional decision.
CRS also replied, and said as a counter offer, they were willing to waive the remainder of the 
debt  which stood at £161.07. They added no further comments.
As were required to, we put this to Mr W for his response  if he accepted this offer then the 
matter would be resolved, if he chose not to, then the next appropriate step was to issue a 
final decision.
Mr W said CRS need to pay what Id set out in my provisional decision. He added he didnt 
think they could write off the debt, as its not theirs. He said he found this ridiculous.
As Mr W didnt accept CRS counter offer, Ive now formally decided this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W accepted my decision. Ive taken CRS response in suggesting a counter offer to say 
they dont accept my decision  but they didnt add any further comments for me to consider 
about why they didnt agree with what Id said.
Ive noted Mr Ws comments about CRS waiving his debt. Theyve not provided any detail 
about how theyd have achieved that. But I dont think Mr Ws concerns about their reply 
mean I should consider more compensation than what I suggested  nor is that what hes 
asking for. Hes said CRS should pay what Ive said.
As Mr W accepted my provisional decision, and CRS didnt provide any new information for 
me to consider beyond the counter offer they made which Mr W rejected, Ill still require 
them to pay Mr W compensation for the reasons I previously set out.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
Credit Resource Solutions Ltd to pay Mr W £250 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 Jon Pearce
Ombudsman