DRN-3479875
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs refusal of a 
claim for business interruption cover under its retail business insurance policy. 
Mr C, a director of C, has complained on its behalf. 
What happened
C made a claim under its policy with AXA after it was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic.  
AXA refused the claim, as it said the claim was not covered. 
Mr C is very unhappy about this. Mr C also says AXA has logged the claim as being for 
accidental damage and its concerned this might affect future premiums. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied AXA was entitled to refuse the claim. 
C does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. C 
says the court case taken by Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about business 
interruption insurance policies such as this, is relevant to its claim and supports its complaint 
that the claim should be met.  C also says that the policy covers losses arising out of the 
business being damaged, which it was and so the claim should be met.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Cs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Cs entire policy carefully. It includes cover for business interruption as a 
result of various specified events and there are three sections within that which I think might 
appear relevant to this claim. I have therefore considered each of these and whether Cs 
claim might be covered under any of them.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy provides cover for loss of profit and 
increased costs: In the event of the BUSINESS at the PREMISES being interrupted as a 
result of DAMAGE caused by any of the perils as stated in section A.
Damage is defined in the policy as: Physical loss destruction or damage
The causes of damage covered in section A include, fire and storm. Whatever the cause of 
the damage covered in section A, there is a requirement for there to be physical damage to 
the premises.
C says that the policy wording covers damage to either the business at the premises or the 
property. The business was damaged by the enforced closure and the business has 
therefore been interrupted as a result of the damage to the business, so its losses should be 
covered. 
I do not agree with this interpretation of the above clause. In support of this C referred to the 
first part of the sentence only: in the event of the business at the premises being interrupted 
as a result of damage. But it has to be read with the rest of the sentence, which says that 
the damage has to have been caused by one of the specific perils in Section A of the policy. 
And as stated damage is defined as physical loss destruction or damage and there is no 
evidence of physical damage having occurred to Cs premises.  
C also said that one of the perils covered in Section A is accidental damage of a sudden 
and/or unforeseen nature which would apply to its claim which is for accidental damage to 
the business at the premises.
However, Section A covers damage to the property insured at the premises described in the 
schedule. It is sufficiently clear, in my opinion that there would have to be physical damage 
to the premises and this to be the cause of the interruption to the business in order to be 
covered under this section. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to the insured property, so 
I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to say theres no cover under this section of the 
policy. 
Disease
The core cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. One of which says:
The cover provided by this Section extends to include loss of gross profit and 
increase in cost of working resulting from interruption of the BUSINESS due to the 
occurrence of
5. c) Contagious and/or Infectious Diseases occurring at the PREMISES excluding 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition.
Covid-19 is a contagious and/or infectious disease. So for this extension to provide cover for 
Cs claim, the interruption to Cs business would need to be as a result of Covid-19 occurring 
at the premises. 
Premises is defined in the policy as being the buildings and the land within the boundaries 
belonging to them.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
The evidence provided to me is that C closed as a result of the Government restrictions and 
not due to anyone at the premises having Covid-19. I do not therefore think it was 
unreasonable for AXA to refuse the claim under this section of cover, as there is no evidence 
of there having been an occurrence of Covid-19 at Cs premises.
C has referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCAs test case in support of this 
complaint. The Court considered various policies which covered businesses which were 
forced to close as a result of notifiable diseases, but it didnt consider policies that required a 
notifiable disease at the premises as in this policy. As, C hasnt demonstrated that Covid-19 
occurred at its premises I am not therefore persuaded that the judgment impacts the 
outcome of Cs complaint. 
Denial of access
The third clause that I consider might have been relevant to this claim is another extension 
to the core business interruption cover, which provides for situations where the business 
cannot operate because of: 
Damage to property in the vicinity of the premises which prevents or hinders the use 
or access to the premises 
Again this clause requires there to have been physical damage to properties in the vicinity 
that prevents access to the Cs business premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to any property in the vicinity and so I do not consider the claim 
would be covered under this section either.  
Renewal premiums
I understand C is also concerned that the claim might affect future premiums, as AXA 
classed it as accidental damage claim even though it was an unsuccessful claim for 
business interruption. I can see the final response letter from AXA referred to it as an 
accidental damage claim in the heading but it was considered as business interruption claim 
and was referred to as such in AXAs internal papers. 
I asked for more information about this from AXA. It said the claim was for business 
interruption but it has correctly recorded it as an accident claim, as it considers the cause of 
the business interruption losses to be accidental. While I can see why this raised a query 
with C, it seems AXA has recorded this claim in line with its usual procedures.
 
Insurers are expected to treat consumers fairly and reasonably when setting premiums but 
they are generally entitled to set their own underwriting criteria as to how they calculate 
premiums. Sometimes previous claims made might be taken into account, if an insurer 
considers it increases the risk of future claims. AXA said that as the claim was declined there is nothing for C to disclose to future insurers other than an unsuccessful claim but that Cs 
broker is better placed to answer queries about any possible impact on future premiums. 
I am sorry I am unable give C any certainty about this in this decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman