DRN-3298189
The complaint
Miss Ds complaint is about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe)
Ltds (C & G) refusal of her claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 30 April 2021, Ms D took her dog for a walk. As she was crossing a road to avoid a larger 
dog coming towards them, her dog pulled the lead from her hand and ran off. The dog was 
hit by a car around a mile away and taken by a member of the public to a vet. Ms D collected 
him and took him to her usual vet for treatment. The dog had fractured his hind leg and 
needed surgery.
Ms D made a claim under the policy for the cost of the treatment. However, C & G 
declined the claim as it said Ms D had not taken reasonable precautions to prevent 
Accidental Injury or Damage, as required by the policy. C & G has made a number of points 
in support of its position, which Ive summarised below: 
it is likely the dog was not on a lead, as he did not have a lead attached when he was 
seen by the vet. 
Even if he was on a lead, the dog was not under control, as he would not have been 
able to pull the lead from Ms Ds hand if he was. 
The vets notes show that Ms Ds dog had been castrated only a few days before this 
incident and it is advised that walks are generally restricted during recovery. 
Ms D should have picked her dog up to avoid the larger dog.
It is unlikely that Ms Ds dog could have outrun her, given its size.
The vet that the dog was taken to after the accident referred to someone with a 
different name collecting the dog, saying it was hers. It asks for an explanation of 
this. 
There was also a query about Ms Ds address but this was an administrative error on our 
part. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld, as she did not think C & G had established the dog had not been on a lead. 
C & G does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ds policy states that it will cover veterinary fees for treating an illness or accidental 
injury suffered by your pet whilst insured with us
Accidental injury is defined as a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event, with a 
specific time and place which results in damage to one or more parts of your pets body.
This cover is subject to the following conditions:
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all reasonable
precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage, as well as arranging and paying for
Treatment for Your pet to reduce the likelihood of Illness or Accidental Injury. 
You must comply with all laws that relate specifically to Your pet, including but not limited to 
Section 27 of the Road Traffic Act 1988, which states that a dog that is on a designated 
road must be on a collar and lead and under control.
You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should be
maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing itself Accidental Injury or any
other persons or animals.
When walking near or in an area where Your pet could escape onto a designated road You 
must ensure Your dog is on a collar and lead.
A dog being hit by a car is an accidental injury that would fall within this section of cover. 
What I have to decide is whether the conditions also set out above have been reasonably 
applied in this case to exclude the claim. 
C & G says the dog was not on a lead, as the evidence shows he did not have a lead 
attached when he was found. I do not agree that there is evidence to support this.  
Ms D said in her claim form, and consistently since, that the dog was on a lead. The vets 
notes state the dog was wearing a buster collar when he was brought in but I cannot see 
that a lead is mentioned at all  either to record the presence of one or the absence of one. I 
can understand why the vet noted the collar but I do not consider that the mere fact a lead 
was not mentioned by the vet is sufficient evidence to establish that Ms D was walking the 
dog without a lead. And even if the dog had been taken to the vet without a lead attached 
(which is not proven) it seems to me possible the lead became detached, or was taken off by 
someone attending to the dog when it was injured. Theres no statement from the person 
that found the dog to assist but overall I do not consider that C & G has established that the 
dog was not on a lead while being walked by Ms D. 
C & G also says that, even if the dog was on a lead, he cannot have been under control, as 
he is a small dog and would not have been able to pull the lead out of Ms Ds hand; and that, 
as it is a small breed of dog, he could not have outrun Ms D. 
I am not sure if C & G is implying by this that the dog was unattended but I have not seen 
any evidence to suggest this was the case. And I do not agree with its assertions. A lead 
held in a reasonable grip, can slip out of a hand quickly; and all dogs, whatever their size, 
can run fast. In my opinion, there is no reason to doubt that Ms D was with the dog when he 
ran off or that she tried to catch him. C & G also says that walks should have been restricted 
as the dog had recently undergone surgery. I do not think this is relevant to the claim or 
complaint.
The vet notes refer to someone of a different name coming and claiming the dog. C & G has 
said this raises a query about who was with the dog when it ran off. Our Investigator asked 
Ms D about this but she has no explanation as to why the vet recorded a different name and 
assumes it is an error on the vets part. As the vet that wrote this is not the usual vet and 
was apparently unknown to Ms D, this seems credible and I do not think this in itself casts 
any doubt on the claim.  I also do not agree that it is a reasonable expectation that dog owners should pick up their 
dogs in the event of any perceived threat or nervousness around another dog, rather than 
crossing the road. 
The policy requires owners to take reasonable care to prevent injuries or damage but just 
because an injury occurred does not mean reasonable car was not taken. Overall, I do not 
agree that C & G has established that Ms D did not take reasonable care to prevent her dog 
escaping or suffering an injury, and it seems to me this was simply an unfortunate accident.  
I therefore consider C & G should meet the claim. I understand there is a policy limit on the 
amount that will be paid in the event of a claim and the costs incurred are in excess of that 
limit. C & G only needs to meet the costs up to that limit. Interest should be paid however, at 
our usual rate, on any costs to be covered under the policy that Ms D has already paid. 
 
I also consider C & G should pay the sum of £100 compensation for the trouble the wrongful 
refusal of the claim has caused Ms D, including taking three months before making its 
decision on the claim.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd and 
require it to do the following: 
1. meet Ms Ds claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, including any claim 
limit. If Ms D has already paid the vets invoice, then 8% simple interest should be 
added to any settlement from the date the invoice was paid, to the date of settlement. 
2. Pay the sum of £100 compensation of the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
incorrect refusal of the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman