DRN-4192362
The complaint
Mr H complains that PayrNet Limited blocked his account and returned funds paid into his 
account back to the original source rather than to him. Mr H would like the money returned to 
him.  
Mr H held a Pockit branded account  who provided services on behalf of PayrNet. 
What happened
Mr H had a Pockit account.  Mr H says he used the account to receive money from friends 
and family. He also used it to save money he received from sales he made of second-hand 
clothing.
Mr H received three payments into his account totalling £800. Following this, in July 2021, 
Pockit blocked Mr Hs account while they carried out a review of how Mr H was operating it. 
As part of its review on 28 July 2021, Pockit asked Mr H to provide identification documents, 
to explain what he used his Pockit account for and evidence of where the funds in his 
account came from. 
In response, Mr H sent Pockit copies of his bank statement, wage slip and his passport. He 
also explained that he sold clothes and used the account for savings and to pay for his car 
maintenance. Pockit wasnt happy with the information Mr H provided. On 13 August 2021 
sent Mr H another email asking him to provide information which showed the source of funds 
in his account.  In response, Mr H emailed Pockit the same information that he had sent to 
them in July 2021. 
On 2 September 2021, Pockit emailed Mr H and said it had verified his identify and address 
based on the information hed previously sent to them. However, it still needed more 
information about the source of funds in his account. In response Mr H emailed the 
information hed already sent.
Following this Pockit says it returned the money left in the account to the original sources, 
and closed Mr Hs account in January 2022. Pockit said it did so to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations, and because Mr H hadnt been able to verify the source of funds in 
his account. Mr H complained to Pockit. He said he wasnt able to pay bills and was incurring 
debt because he couldnt access the money in his account. Pockit said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and had complied with the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account  which 
hed agreed to when he opened the account.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. The investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. He 
was satisfied Pockit could review Mr Hs account and ask for information  but based on the 
information Pockit had provided he wasnt able to say Pockit had carried out a thorough 
investigation to show that that Mr H wasnt entitled to the money in his account and had 
treated him fairly when it had sent the money back to source. So, he said Pockit should 
return the full balance to Mr H along with 8% interest for loss of use of the funds. 
Mr H agreed. Pockit didnt. It said whilst it accepted there was no evidence to show Mr H 
wasnt entitled to the money in his account equally Mr H hadnt provided enough information 
to show that he was entitled to the funds. And it had acted in line with the terms of the 
account and relevant regulations.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. I asked 
the investigator to contact Mr H and asked him for more information regarding the money 
that was paid into his account  specifically evidence to show his entitled to the funds that 
were paid into his account. Mr H said he wasnt able to provide anything. Following this on 
25 May 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need 
to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
And may need to ask a customer for information about payments made into an account. The 
terms and conditions of Mr Hs account also permitted Pockit to do this. So, I cant say Pockit 
did anything wrong when it blocked and reviewed Mr Hs account. 
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he wants the money that was paid into his account 
returned to him. At the time the balance of Mr Hs account was around £800. Pockit have 
returned the funds in Mr Hs account to source  in other words they have sent it back to 
where it came from. So, I need to decide whether this was fair and reasonable. 
I can see from looking at the emails between Pockit and Mr H that Pockit asked Mr H to 
provide evidence of the source of the money in his account. In response, Mr H explained 
that he sold clothes and used his account to save. He sent Pockit his wage slip and a bank 
statement for an account he had with another bank to support his explanation. 
Mr H has told the investigator that Pockit didnt ask him to provide information about the 
source of his funds and if it had done so he wouldve sent everything to them. I dont agree. 
Having looked at the email exchanges between Pockit and Mr H on 2 September 2021, I can 
see that Pockit asked Mr H if the funds you have received have been sourced through 
sales, please provide evidence that the sales have been completed successfully. I think this 
was quite clear and a reasonable request. But Mr H didnt provide any information about 
sales hed made that might have explained where the money in his account had originated. 
For example, adverts, communications arranging sales, and proof of supplying goods. 
Instead, he resent the information hed already provided. 
Pockit has said they no longer hold the funds and have acted in accordance with their legal 
and regulatory obligations by returning the funds to source. Ive carefully considered the 
evidence both Mr H and Pockit has provided. Based on this, and the full circumstances of 
the complaint, Im not satisfied Pockits actions were unfair. Ultimately, Pockit would have to 
be satisfied that Mr H wasnt entitled to the money himself to justify returning it back to the 
original senders. Having considered the lack of evidence from Mr H at the time that he was 
entitled to the money in his account, I agree that this was the right action in the 
circumstances. This ensures the funds are sent back to the correct person. Especially, as in 
this case Pockit werent able to verify Mr Hs entitlement to the funds. So, whilst I appreciate 
Mr H will be disappointed, I cant say Pockit has treated him unfairly when it returned the 
funds to source. And I dont intend to direct Pockit to return the money which was paid into 
his account to him.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. Now both parties have had an 
opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should not be upheld for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman