DRN-3168212
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the refusal of his claim under a pet insurance policy with Fairmead 
Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General. 
What happened
Mr A says his dog has had colitis and a liver condition for some time, both of which are 
under control. His dog became unwell in 2020 and was sent for tests, which resulted in her 
being diagnosed with pancreatitis.  Mr A made a claim for the cost of investigations and 
treatment for pancreatitis. 
Fairmead refused the claim as it said this was a continuation of treatment started in 
February 2019, when the dog had colitis and diarrhoea. It says the dog had been suffering 
from colitis for some time, and this has now been diagnosed as pancreatitis. Mr As policy 
covers treatment for up to 12 months for any one condition. Fairmead said that as this claim 
was made more than 12 months after the first incident linked to the condition, it is not 
covered. As the condition onset date was 20 February 2019, the last treatment covered 
would therefore have to have been before 21 Feb 2020 to be covered (and under the 
financial limit).
Mr A is very unhappy with this. He says his dog was diagnosed with a new condition and 
therefore a new treatment period of 12 months should apply for the pancreatitis. Mr A says 
his dog only had diarrhoea in February 2019 and all dogs have this at some time. It is the 
refusal of this claim that is the subject of this complaint but Mr A is also unhappy that two 
previous claims in 2020 were also refused, for the same reason. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he thought Fairmead had established the treatment claimed for was related to the 
earlier treatment and as it was more than 12 months later, was excluded from cover. 
Mr A does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
He says that he cannot accept that just because his dog had diarrhoea in the past that the 
insurance policy will not meet a claim for other issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance policy Mr A has covers treatment costs up to £5,000 or for 12 months from 
the onset of each new condition.
The policy defines a condition as being:
Any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any manifestation of an
illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease process
regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body affected.
I have looked at the vets notes for Mr As dog. 
The dog was treated for diarrhoea in September 2014 and this led to the diagnosis of colitis. 
This was mentioned in the vets note several times from 2014 onwards, including in 2018.
On 20 February 2019 Mr A took his dog to the vet as she was not well. The notes say: 
history  in as being vomiting recently, suffers with colitis.  An X-ray was carried out, which 
showed that she had a gall bladder quite full of hyperechonic solid looking material gall 
bladder causing vomiting?  
Fairmead would therefore cover vet costs related to the gallbladder from 20 February 2019 
to February 2020 and I understand it did meet a claim for the investigations and treatment 
required in early 2019.   
Mr As dog had to go back to the vet in February and March 2020 as she was still vomiting 
intermittently and the vet did another scan which showed same changes about gall bladder, 
full of isoechoic mudstomach slightly distended with fluid and duodenum sightly distended 
as well. 
The vet prescribed some medication and arranged for Mr As dog to be rescanned in June 
2020. The vet recorded that her gall bladder on right side appears to be half filled with 
hyperechoic more solid looking sludge and the findings look similar to a year ago. 
Following this, the treating vet referred the dog for further investigative tests. The referral 
says the tests were for further investigation for large intestinal diarrhoea and mild elevation 
of her liver enzymesand enlarged gallbladder, and that she has had chronic enteropathy 
(i.e. intestinal problems) which is of concern. The dog was subsequently diagnosed with 
pancreatitis at the end June 2020. 
Fairmead says the original diagnosis of colitis has now evolved into a diagnosis of 
pancreatitis and as the diarrhoea was the underlying symptom the start date for cover for 
pancreatitis is the first date the dog was noted to have chronic diarrhoea/colitis, which was 
on or before February 2019, so more than a year before the treatment currently claimed for 
and is therefore excluded. 
Mr A says the pancreatitis is a new condition and unrelated to the previous colitis and 
diarrhoea. The vets have written to say they would not normally expect liver disease to 
cause colitis / diarrhoea and so our assumption  [is] this is a separate problem from the 
intermittent large intestinal diarrhoea.  Fairmead responded to the vet with its explanation as 
to why it considered the condition linked to the symptoms exhibited in 2019 and before and 
as far as Im aware the vet did not respond again. 
While diarrhoea may not always lead to a diagnosis of a condition, in this case it seems it 
was an ongoing symptom that led to the diagnosis of pancreatitis. I am not persuaded that it 
has bene established to be a completely separate condition. 
For the policy condition limit to apply, there does not need to have been a diagnosis of any 
particular condition, there just needs to be signs that the policyholder or vet noticed any 
manifestation of an illness related to the same disease process. And this was the case in 
February 2019, when Mr A's dog had diarrhoea and vomiting and problems with the gall 
bladder were picked up. Having considered all the evidence provided, I am not persuaded Fairmead has acted 
unfairly and I do not think I can reasonably require it to meet these claims.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman