DRN-3697264
The complaint
Ms E and Mr S complain about difficulties with a direct debit payment taken by Clydesdale 
Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) after they re-mortgaged. They ask that Virgin Money 
corrects any damage to their credit files and pays compensation for their time and anxiety.
What happened
Ms E and Mr S repaid their mortgage with Virgin Money. Virgin Money took a monthly direct 
debit payment of about £775 at about the same time. Ms E and Mr S say they tried to 
contact Virgin Money but their calls were cut-off. So they made a direct debit indemnity claim 
to reclaim the payment. However, Virgin Money also refunded the payment. This meant the 
payment was refunded twice and Ms E and Mr S needed to pay £775 to close the mortgage. 
This happened in March 2022.
Virgin Money wrote to Ms E and Mr S asking for the payment in May, July and August 2022. 
Mr S and Ms E say they were unable to make the payment, due to problems with Virgin 
Moneys telephone systems which persistently cut off their calls. They made the payment in 
August 2022. But theyre concerned that this has affected their credit files. They would also 
like the interest applied by Virgin Money to be refunded.
Our investigator said Ms E and Mr S hadnt provided evidence of the calls they said they 
made to Virgin Money, or that it recorded inaccurate data on their credit files. He said he 
didnt intend to ask Virgin Money to take further action.
Ms E sent a list of five calls she says they made to Virgin Money between early March and 
August 2022. She said finding this information took considerable time, and she wasnt 
prepared to spend further time looking through call logs. Mr S said they couldnt provide 
evidence of all of the calls they made, and it was only the investigators opinion that they 
didnt persevere with trying to make the payment. He said hed provided evidence that his 
credit score had been affected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money didnt respond to Ms E and Mr Ss complaint, or to our investigators requests 
for information. I understand Ms E and Mr Ss frustration about this. Nonetheless, I have 
enough evidence to reach a fair decision. I should explain that where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ms E and Mr S re-mortgaged with another lender. Virgin Money took an additional monthly 
payment. It isnt uncommon for this to happen. Lenders start the direct debit process several 
working days before a payment is due. This can mean that a monthly mortgage payment is 
taken at about the same time, or just after a mortgage is repaid. When this happens the 
lenders systems should ensure the payment is refunded. What happened here (and whether 
Virgin Money made an error when it took the payment) is unclear as Virgin Money hasnt 
responded to Mr S and Ms Es complaint. But it did refund the payment, as Id expect it to 
do.
Ms E and Mr S also asked their bank to reclaim the payment. The payment was refunded 
twice, which meant Ms E and Mr S owed money to Virgin Money. Virgin Money wrote to 
Ms E and Mr S asking for the payment.
Ms E and Mr S say they were unable to get in contact with Virgin Money by phone before or 
after the payment was refunded. They say their calls were cut off. They say they cant visit a 
branch and dont own a cheque book, so dont have other ways to make the payment. They 
raised a complaint with Virgin in early April 2022.
Ms E and Mr S didnt get a substantive response to their complaint. Virgin Money did send 
further letters about the amount they owed to close the mortgage. In July 2022 it wrote to 
them saying the interest rate applied to their account had changed. The letter set out their 
new monthly payment (about £5.50). In August 2022 it sent a letter saying they were in 
arrears of about £11. The letter said this could affect their credit files. 
Mr S called Virgin Money and made the payment in August 2022. He also paid about £4 of 
interest, which Virgin Money applied while the payment was outstanding. Mr S refers to this 
as material damage. I dont think it was unreasonable for Virgin Money to apply interest to 
what was an outstanding debt. The direct debit payment was refunded twice and the money 
was owed by Mr S and Ms E to Virgin Money. Virgin Money did make them aware of this.
Its possible that Virgin Money recorded arrears on Mr S and Ms Es credit files. It re-
calculated their monthly payment as about £5.50. And sent a letter saying they were in 
arrears of about £11  equivalent to two months of arrears. Its letter said if the mortgage was 
in arrears equal to or exceeding one month it might inform credit reference agencies. 
Mr S says his credit score has deteriorated. He hasnt provided evidence (such as a copy of 
his credit report) that this was due to incorrect data recorded by Virgin Money. He says its 
for Virgin Money to prove it didnt record adverse data. Mr S says he wants to make a data 
subject access request to Virgin Money, but is worried it wouldnt respond. There are, as our 
investigator has said, ways for Mr S and Ms E to obtain copies of their credit reports, free of 
charge. This would be a straightforward way to provide evidence of any incorrect data on 
their credit files.
For me to decide that Virgin Money recorded incorrect or unfair information on Mr S and 
Ms Es credit file Id need to see what it has actually recorded. Mr S and Ms E havent 
provided their credit reports. For me to find it was unfair for Virgin Money to record arrears 
on their credit files (if it has), Id need to be sure that Mr S and Ms E were unable to pay the 
amount owed due to errors by Virgin Money.
Mr S says they werent sure what had happened until they received a letter from Virgin 
Money in late May 2022. So, presumably, this was when they first tried to call Virgin Money 
to make the payment. The list of calls Ms E says they made only includes two calls after this 
 one on 30 May 2022 (which she says lasted 4 seconds before it cut off) and one on 15 
August 2022 when they made the payment. I appreciate that Ms E and Mr S say they made 
other calls of long duration that they cant provide evidence of, or dont want to spend time 
searching for this evidence. But based on the evidence Mr S and Ms E have provided, I dont 
think I can fairly find that they spent significant time trying to make the payment, that 
problems with Virgin Moneys phone systems prevented them making the payment before 
August 2022, or that Virgin Money recorded incorrect or unfair data on their credit files. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Virgin Money to correct Ms E and 
Mr Ss credit files or to pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman