DRN-1590531
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 What happened
Mrs G arranged her original mortgage in 1988 and didnt buy PPI at that time. It was when 
she was arranging a further advance in a branch of Nationwide in 2002 that she was sold the 
PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen copies of some of the paperwork from the time of the sale. The further advance 
application form has a separate section for PPI with Yes and No boxes that could be ticked 
to either request or decline the PPI. The Yes box has been ticked. The wording says to: 
Please read the PaymentGuard leaflet which includes details of your eligibility for cover 
before answering the question below. So although Mrs G has told us that she didnt see any 
leaflet, based on the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that she was given 
a leaflet about the PPI during the meeting.
Because Mrs G requested PPI, she then had to complete a separate PPI application form. I 
can see that she has chosen to cover herself for accident and sickness only, and not 
unemployment. And she has chosen a benefit period of 24 months as opposed to 12 
months. So it appears that she gave some thought to what her needs were at the time.
Ive no doubt that Mrs G has provided her honest recollection of events. But shes been clear 
in saying that she doesnt really remember the meeting, which isnt surprising given how long 
ago it took place. Given the layout and wording of the forms, I think that Mrs G would have 
known that she had a choice about taking out the policy. It seems to me that she decided to 
buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Nationwide didnt advise Mrs G to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not it was right for her.
The application form shows that Mrs G was earning £22,865 at the time, as opposed to the 
£28,000 that she recollects being her salary in 2002. But this doesnt make a difference to 
my decision. Mrs Gs employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, if she had been off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition 
to this and potentially for longer than Mrs G would have received full pay for. Mrs G had 
some savings. But having the policy would have meant that she could retain these or use 
them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Overall, I think that Mrs G had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it. Also, 
Ive seen a letter that Mrs G sent to Nationwide in 2005 where she is asking to reduce the 
term of her mortgage but to continue with the associated PPI. So it looks like Mrs G had a 
good awareness of the policy, actively wanted it and was managing it in accordance with her 
needs.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs G wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider she had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off 
as a result of anything that Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing that 
Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman