DRN-3071788
Complaint
Ms W has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly continued applying 
charges on her overdraft which caused her financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ws complaint and thought Santander should have 
realised Ms W was struggling by December 2014 at the very latest. He said that it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Ms Ws overdraft from this point as 
result. Santander didnt respond and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Santander acted unfairly when 
it continued adding interest, fees and charges to Ms Ws overdraft from December 2014. 
By this point, Santander would have seen that Ms W had been hardcore borrowing for a 
number of months. In other words, Ms Ws account remained persistently overdrawn for 
lengthy periods while ever returning to credit. So I think that Santander ought reasonably to 
have realised that the facility wasnt being used for its generally accepted purpose  short-
term emergency borrowing - and taken steps to address this. 
Overall I think that by December 2014 Santander shouldnt have continued providing Ms W 
with an overdraft on the same terms and instead treated her with forbearance rather than 
adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
All of this means that Santander should have realised that Ms W was struggling to manage 
her overdraft and offered her assistance. As Santander didnt react to Ms Ws account usage 
and instead continued charging, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was already 
struggling to repay what she owed. So Im satisfied that Ms W lost out because of what 
Santander did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Ms W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ws complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Ms W to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If Santander considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Ms Ws credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from December 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Ms Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman