DRN-3388875
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Esteem Money Ltd to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says he 
was mis advised about moving his pension and the advice was unsuitable for him. He 
believes this has caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement 
said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, 
a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr H sought advice about his pension planning from another financial adviser. But this 
adviser couldnt give advice on Mr Hs pension and so Mr H was referred to Esteem. 
Mr H approached Esteem in November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Esteems notes about this early time show that Mr H contacted it due to concerns about, and 
a lack of trust with, his DB scheme. 
Esteem completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that he was:
Aged 49, married and in good health. 
Employed by Tata Steel and earning around £37,000 a year. Mrs H was also 
employed with an income of £28,080.
Mr H was a member of his employers group personal pension scheme.
He had a deferred money purchase pension fund that had a current value of around 
£50,000.
Mr and Mrs H owned their own home which was subject to a mortgage of around 
£44,000. They had some other debts of about £6,000. 
Mr H had cash savings of £11,000, they had no other savings or investments.
Esteem also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high 
or moderately adventurous. 
On 19 November 2017, Esteem advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The transfer proceeded and Mr H transferred £87,662.02 into a Liverpool Victoria 
personal pension that invested in a range of funds. 
The suitability report said that Mr Hs main aims for this pension were to:
Clear all his debts.
To retire early. He wanted to possibly begin to take benefits from his pension at age 
55, and fully retire at age 60. 
Provide better lump sum death benefits for his wife and children.
Esteem said the new personal pension offered him the flexibility to do this, it said that the 
personal pension income benefits would be comparable to the DB scheme, and the death 
benefits would be greater. It would also alleviate Mr Hs concerns with the funding of the 
scheme and his concerns about his employer. It said the transfer amount was good value. 
Mr H complained in 2021 to Esteem about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr H thought 
he might have been adversely affected by the transfer and he wanted to compare it to the 
BSPS benefits he gave up. 
Esteem didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said the advice was suitable for him and would 
allow him to clear his debts and retire early. He needed a flexible pension solution which the 
BSPS2 or the PPF wouldnt offer. It said he didnt want to transfer to the BSPS2 and felt that 
his pension would end up in the PPF which would reduce his benefits. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Esteem pay compensation. He said that the transfer was likely to have 
left Mr H worse off in retirement. He said that even though the BSPS2 and PPF provided 
lower benefits than the BSPS they were still valuable. This wasnt properly explained to 
Mr H. And it wasnt properly demonstrated that transferring the DB scheme would meet his 
aims. 
Esteem disagreed, saying:
Whist the critical yields were high they were achievable given Mr Hs attitude to risk. 
In any case Mr H wanted to use these funds flexibly and so the critical yields werent 
entirely relevant. 
Mr H didnt want to take the risk of his employers scheme having problems in the 
future. 
Mr H was fully aware of what the BSPS2 and PPF could offer him. The point of sale 
documentation explained this fully. 
Mr H might still need cash at 55 to repay debt and he may have downsized. Taking 
benefits in the way he wanted to was not available from his DB scheme. 
There was some further correspondence after this, but the investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change their opinion. No new issues were raised. So, the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The rules below are not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Esteem's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Esteem 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Esteem carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his 
existing scheme benefits and Mr H didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either 
needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. The suitability report 
shows information about Mr Hs entitlements from the BSPS2. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given.
Mr H was 49 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at age 60, and earlier if possible. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits at age 60 from the BSPS2 was 9.45% 
The same figure at his age 65 was 7.56%. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 was shown to be 
8.27% if Mr H took full pension benefits and 7.91% if he took a reduced pension and tax-free 
cash. 
The TVAS said that Mr H would need a fund of £222,964.34 to provide the same pension 
benefits as the BSPS at age 60. And if he took maximum tax-free cash this fell to 
£178.752.57. 
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017 and was 3.8% per year to age 65, and 4.2% per year to 
age 60. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
 
Esteem didnt produce a full cashflow analysis, which would have been best practice and 
helpful here. But it did say that if Mr H took the same benefits as he could from the DB 
scheme then the fund would run out at his 78 if he took a full pension and 80 if he took a tax-
free cash and a reduced pension. This was based on his retirement at age 60. 
Mr Hs attitude to risk was assessed as being relatively high. I can accept he indicated that 
he was prepared to take some risk. But he also doesnt seem to have had any risk bearing 
investments, so its hard to accept that he would be familiar with the volatility that investing at 
higher risks usually brings. And I dont think he had any real capacity for loss given his 
pension funds were modest. Nevertheless, even if I accept that he was prepared to take 
some risk, the required returns are approaching, or above, the regulators highest growth 
rates and so were not likely to be achievable however he invested. 
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr H's attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think its clear that Mr H was likely to 
receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. This was especially the 
case if he retired early (as planned). 
Esteem says that the critical yields are of limited relevance as Mr H didnt want to use his 
funds on the same basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. Essentially Esteem is 
saying Mr H didnt want an annuity, it said he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the 
regulator required Esteem to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be 
achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based 
on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont 
think Mr H wasnt sure whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement from 
this pension. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another five to ten years. His only 
other pension was a money purchase arrangement, so that was already subject to 
investment risk. So, I think its entirely possible that Mr H would want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB 
scheme). 
Esteem has questioned the use of the discount rate as a means of considering whether the 
critical yields were achievable. But under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to 
compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a 
personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the 
discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And 
in any event, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators published projection 
rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Hs attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he 
transferred out of the DB scheme.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Esteem 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason that Esteem recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr H. But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr H needed to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
It's evident that Mr H could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr H had to take those benefits 
at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr H had any concrete need to take tax-free 
cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind 
this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
There were two main objectives that this flexibility was intended to achieve. He firstly wanted 
to repay his debts between ages 55 and 60. And secondly, he wanted to retire at age 60 (or 
before). 
Looking at the debt first, it was recorded that Mr and Mrs Hs main borrowing was a 
mortgage which had a remaining amount of £44,000. They were repaying £1,240 a month to 
this arrangement, or around £15,000 a year. They were also covering all of their expenses 
including servicing their other debt of around £6,000 and saving on a regular basis. So, 
given the information recorded on the fact find, I think their debts would have been repaid 
within the next five years or so, if not earlier. Therefore, I dont think they needed to transfer 
for this reason. And I think Esteem ought to have known that paying down affordable debt is 
not a good enough reason to sacrifice guaranteed income required for retirement.
Turning to their income needs in retirement. According to the information gathered by 
Esteem Mr and Mrs H said they needed about £1,000 a month. The suitability report shows 
that Mr H was entitled to an annual income of £4,190 at age 60 from the BSPS2. He would 
get £4,140 from the PPF. The amounts at age 65 were £5,653 and £5,111.66 respectively. 
Mrs H had her own pension provisions and its not clear how much this was. But it seems 
reasonable to say there may be a shortfall in their income needs at age 60, unless Mrs Hs 
pension provided enough to top up what they needed. 
Mr and Mrs H would also receive their state pensions in time. Which would cover further 
shortfalls at their state retirement ages. 
The advice was given on the basis that the money from the DB transfer could be used 
flexibly to enable Mr H to retire early.  But Mr H already had a sizable, flexible pension 
valued at £50,000 to draw on at retirement. And he was building up further funds in his 
employers new scheme over the next six to ten years. He could use his DC scheme benefits 
to top up the income he would receive from DB scheme to meet his needs until the state 
pension became payable. Or he could use the lump sums for something else if this was not 
needed. So, I dont agree that the only way Mr H could meet his aims was to transfer his DB 
scheme. 
I think the transfer reduced his flexibility as he could have used his DB scheme to provide a 
strong foundation for his income needs. This option is now not available to him. Mr H could also have waited until nearer the time and properly assessed how he could fund his early 
retirement if this is still what he wanted to do.  And attempting to achieve his retirement 
objectives by transferring out of the scheme meant Mr H would be taking on all the 
investment risk, when he didnt need to.
As Ive set out above, Mr H was unlikely to obtain benefits of the same value at retirement if 
he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So, I still think Mr H had a better chance of 
achieving his retirement aims by opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were 
guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension. 
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr H had a genuine need to alter the 
arrangements he already had in place. 
Death benefits
Providing lump sum death benefits was listed as one of Mr Hs objectives but I cant see that 
he was given any detailed advice about this. It was recorded that he didnt have any 
dependents. He didnt have any children and his wife was employed and had her own 
pension provisions. 
That said, death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Esteem explored to 
what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher 
death benefits. Its not clear if any discussions about this went past the nice to have stage.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr H 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr H predeceased him. I dont think Esteem made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left particularly if 
Mr H lived a long life.  In any event, Esteem should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise 
the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement. 
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
Esteem shouldve instead explored life insurance. And Mr H could have nominated his wife 
as beneficiary of his other DC pension scheme. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. 
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr H, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme, and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed clearly heard negative things about the PPF and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund rather than his 
employer being involved in it. 
So its quite possible that Mr H was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Esteems obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, this shouldve alleviated Mr Hs concerns about the scheme moving to the 
PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Esteem shouldve 
reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr H through the PPF wouldve still provided a reasonable portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. And if Mr H took tax-free 
cash, it wouldve actually produced a better outcome for him. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to Esteem recommending Mr H transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
Suitability of investments
Esteem recommended that Mr H invest in a number of managed funds of varying risks. As 
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr H, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr H should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments in the Liverpool Victoria funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for better death benefits on offer through 
a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But Esteem wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits, and in my view, there were no other reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this.  Mr H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme 
just to repay debts that were affordable, and any concerns he had about his DB scheme or 
employer werent worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr H had around 10 years before 
he expected to retire, at the earliest, and his plans were not concrete. 
So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr H wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr H was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr H chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Esteem shouldve advised Mr H to opt into the 
BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Esteem's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Esteems advice. I say this because I cant see 
that Mr H was an experienced investor and this pension was an important part of Mr Hs 
retirement provision, I dont think he had capacity to lose it. So, if Esteem had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about his employer and the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for them or in his 
best interests. If Esteem had explained that Mr H could meet all of his objectives without 
risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Esteem should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr H would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance and or rules. So, I 
consider its fair that Esteem calculates Mr Hs redress in line with new guidance and rules 
when they come into effect. A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
opted into the BSPS2. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr H.
Esteem must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon 
as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no firm plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his/her/their normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Esteem has 
received notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Esteem to pay Mr H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Esteem deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell 
Mr H how much has been taken off. Esteem should give Mr H a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Esteem Money Ltd to 
pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Esteem Money Ltd to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Esteem 
Money Ltd to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Esteem Money Ltd pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Esteem Money Ltd .
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman