DRN-2219866
The complaint
Mrs C says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs C took out a mortgage with PPI in 1998 at a Halifax branch.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs C disagreed with this view. 
Mrs C mainly complained that Halifax pressured her into buying the policy and made her feel 
that there was a strong possibility she wouldnt be accepted for the mortgage she was 
applying for without it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mrs C bought PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Mrs C to remember all the details of a conversation that happened such a long 
time ago. So although shes told us she felt pressured into taking out PPI, I cant fairly say 
that Halifax didnt explain that PPI was optional, just based on what Mrs C says. 
What Mrs C told me about how she was sold the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold her complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
Based on the information thats available, I think Halifax made Mrs C aware that the policy 
was optional and Mrs C chose to have it. I say this because Ive seen the separate 
application form Mrs C had to fill in to get PPI added on to her mortgage. Shes answered 
questions designed to see if she was eligible for the cover. 
And shes signed a declaration next to where it says I wish to apply for cover under the 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance scheme. 
So I think it wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs C to arrange PPI to 
protect her mortgage if she wanted it  and that this insurance was something separate from 
her mortgage. 
Mrs Cs mortgage was a big financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Her 
home couldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided a 
dependable means of ensuring her monthly mortgage repayments were protected even if 
she couldnt work. I think thats likely to have been an important consideration for Mrs C 
when she was buying her home. So, I can see why Mrs C mightve felt PPI was useful. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs C wanted the security and peace of mind that the 
policy benefits could offer her and she decided to buy PPI  even if shes forgotten this now.
Halifax recommended PPI to Mrs C. So it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy 
was right for her. Looking at what Mrs C has told us about her circumstances at the time 
I think the policy was a suitable recommendation. 
Mrs C was eligible for the PPI cover. Ive taken into account that Mrs Cs employer wouldve 
paid her 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. 
But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. 
So the PPI provided better protection than she couldve relied on getting through her 
employer. 
And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs C with a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being 
sick or disabled and she wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 6 
months. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs C lost her job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed.
After going back to work for a qualifying period between each claim, Mrs C couldve claimed 
again under the policy if shed needed to. 
And she couldve kept on doing this for as long as she had her mortgage. So this wouldve 
provided her with long term cover while she was paying for her home. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs C if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Although she was eligible for death in service benefit from her employer, PPI provided a 
different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And whilst I've thought carefully about the shared ownership arrangement Mrs C has 
described, this doesnt affect my overall view about the suitability of having PPI in her 
situation. 
Looked at overall, I find that PPI provided Mrs C with worthwhile protection she wouldnt 
have otherwise had.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if they applied to 
Mrs C. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected her decision to take it out. Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. 
But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. 
There was an indication of the monthly cost shown on the application form she signed to 
arrange PPI. 
So, I think Mrs C probably wouldve had an idea about the likely cost and it seems to have 
been acceptable to her at the time.
I havent seen anything to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for Mrs C. 
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think Mrs C still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the policy gave her 
useful protection in her particular situation. 
I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
On balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt have to repay 
everything Mrs C paid for it.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. 
Because Halifax didnt tell Mrs C that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs C said about the way another PPI case was dealt with. 
But each complaint is looked at on its own facts and merits. 
Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on the 
other case doesnt change my conclusion here.  
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mrs C has said, 
including the comments she made in response to our adjudicators view. 
I appreciate she feels strongly about this complaint. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
In my decision Ive dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay to Mrs C all of the cost of the PPI that she paid.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay to Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium Mrs C paid. I understand it 
has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman