DRN-2965481
The complaint
Mr F has complained to Fiscale Financial Services Limited Fiscale about advice he 
received to transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
plan.  
Mr F is being assisted with his complaint by a professional representative.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Fs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr F was unsure what he should do so he was referred by a colleague to Fiscale. Mr F 
initially met with Fiscale in September 2016. Fiscale didnt have the necessary permissions 
to advise Mr F on the pension transfer so following the meeting, it sent Mr F an email. The 
email said:
"As I explained at our meeting, Fiscale Financial Services ltd does not have the 
necessary permissions to advise on pension transfers as this essentially is specialist 
area....
We are happy to make a referral to the appropriate firm who will typically undertake 
an initial consultation on a free and without obligation basis. If they feel, having 
undertaken professional analysis regarding your situation, that a transfer is in your 
best interests, they would agree a fee with you to undertake the work that is 
preparing a suitability report detailing your options, recommending an appropriate 
provider to transfer the funds to, recommending an appropriate fund, outlining any 
costs etc. They would also deal with the British Steel Pension trustees regarding the 
transfer of funds....
Should a pension transfer of your British Steel monies be in your best interests and 
go ahead, once the monies have been transferred, this is where Fiscale Financial 
Services Ltd would come back into the picture. Our agreement with the firm 
concerned is that if a transfer goes ahead and subject to your agreement, we would 
then take over the management of the pension funds to provide you with ongoing 
servicing and advice.
Important things to note
As Fiscale Financial Services ltd are not providing pension advice in relation to the 
relative merits of transferring (or not), your British Steel Pension monies. Should you 
subsequently undertake a transfer of your pension funds to say a personal pension 
and the at some point down the line feel that this was not in your best interests, any 
potential complaint would be against the firm that provided you with the pension 
transfer advice, including associated fund advice, and not Fiscale Financial Services 
Ltd.
Fiscale Financial Services Ltd would however take regulatory responsibility once a 
change of agency letter has been submitted to the pension provider concerned for 
any ongoing advice only.
What I need you to do
I need you to drop me an email to confirm your understanding to the above at which 
point I can make the necessary referral to the firm concerned.... It is clearly your 
decision if you wish to engage his services."
In response to this email, Mr F replied and confirmed that he had read your email and 
understood what you have said, and I would like you to arrange a meeting with the financial 
adviser please. [Mr F]".
On receipt of Mr Fs email, Fiscale referred Mr F to another firm, who Ill refer to as Firm J, 
for advice regarding the transfer of his defined benefits within the BSPS.  After receiving 
advice from Firm J, Mr F transferred his BSPS benefits to a personal pension. Fiscale then 
advised Mr F to invest his funds in line with his attitude to risk. 
In December 2019, Mr F with assistance from his representative, complained to Firm J but 
the complaint was rejected. At the same time, Mr F also complained to Fiscale about the 
advice hed received to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension. Fiscale issued its 
final response rejecting the complaint. It said that it hadnt provided Mr F with advice to 
transfer his pension. 
Mr F didnt accept what Fiscale said so he referred his complaint to our service for review. In 
his complaint submissions, Mr F confirmed that as Firm J is now in liquidation, hell be 
submitting a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) against it. 
In terms of the complaint against Fiscale, Mr Fs representative has said that Fiscale and 
Firm J worked together to form a package deal, they shared the fee and endorsed each 
others work. Mr F has complained about the advice Fiscale gave him before he was referred 
to Firm J.  
One of our investigators reviewed matters but he didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt think Fiscale was responsible for the transfer advice given to Mr F. And he 
was satisfied that Fiscale only provided an introduction to Firm J and then later advised Mr F 
on his investments. The investigator was also satisfied that the investment Fiscale 
recommended for Mr F was suitable as it met Mr Fs attitude to risk and capacity for loss. 
Mr F has asked for the matter for be referred to me for a final decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. Its clear from 
the paperwork on file that Firm J gave Mr F that advice. Firm J had the relevant permissions 
to complete this transfer. The BSPS wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the 
request hadnt come from a firm with the correct permissions. Firm J has been declared in 
default by the FSCS. Therefore, any complaint against Firm J is now a matter for the FSCS; 
its not something this service can assist with. And I note that Mr F does intend to contact the 
FSCS in this regard.
Although Firm J is responsible for the pension transfer advice, I have considered whether 
Fiscale should also be held accountable for the advice given to Mr F to transfer out of the 
BSPS.  
Ive set out above the email that was sent to Mr F following his meeting with Fiscale. I dont 
think there is anything within these emails that could be construed as advice or a personal 
recommendation. And I think it was made clear to Mr F in these emails that Firm J would be 
assessing the suitability of the transfer. And, only if Firm J considered the transfer to be in 
Mr Fs best interest, would it go ahead. 
However, Mr Fs representative says that before the referral to Firm J, Fiscale went beyond 
the role of a mere introducer, by giving Mr F verbal advice. It says Fiscale told Mr F 
transferring would be do-able and that he should transfer because his pension was bound to 
end up in the PPF. And it says that Fiscale endorsed Firm J and they were essentially 
working together. 
I cant say for sure what was discussed  between Mr F and Fiscale. But I accept that Fiscale 
may have spoken positively about the transfer. And, it was sharing the transfer fee with Firm 
J and was hoping to provide Mr F with ongoing advice, should the transfer go ahead. So I 
think its likely that Fiscale would have hoped that Mr F would transfer. But in my view none 
of Fiscales interactions with Mr F in this regard ultimately caused the potential losses he 
may have suffered.
In response to Fiscales aforementioned email, Mr F emailed Fiscale to say that he 
understood it couldnt provide him with specialist pension transfer advice and that he needed 
to be referred to Firm J. So, after his initial meeting with Fiscale Mr F was referred to Firm J 
for assistance. Firm J gave Mr F the advice to transfer and without its involvement the 
transfer wouldnt have gone ahead. 
Mr Fs representative has said that even if Fiscale didnt give advice, its still liable for this 
matter. It says this because it considers there was a joint venture between the two firms. Its 
referenced a previous decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers 
supports its argument that Fiscale should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm J.  
However, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the right 
outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances 
can vary so much. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I come to on what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a 
court would decide. Mr Fs representative says Fiscale breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr F fairly, act 
with care, have due regard to his best interests and manage conflicts of interest when 
dealing with Firm J.  But Fiscale didnt have the required permissions to give advice on a 
pension transfer, so it couldnt be expected to advise Mr F not to transfer. When a firm 
doesnt have the right permissions or qualifications, its generally considered acceptable to 
refer clients to a firm that does. 
Mr Fs representative says that it represents a large number of clients that transferred away 
from the BSPS after Fiscale referred them to Firm J. However, even if this was the case, I 
think on balance its more likely Fiscale referred customers to Firm J on the understanding 
that it would provide suitable advice, rather than on the premise that Firm J would 
recommend a transfer whether it was suitable or not. 
Its not reasonable to expect a firm - who doesnt have permission or qualifications to provide 
pension transfer advice - to be able to identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think Fiscale were allowed to rely on Firm J, who were 
regulated, had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, to 
provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Js obligation to provide Mr F with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr F to transfer, Firm J - as the experts in this field  ought to 
have clearly told him. And had they done so and provided reasons why, I dont think any 
previous discussions with Fiscale would have likely made Mr F go against Firm Js advice. 
In summary, I think it was Firm Js advice that caused Mr F to transfer and that its fully 
responsible for any losses Mr F may have suffered, if the advice was unsuitable. I dont think 
any loss Mr F may have suffered as a result of transferring away from the BSPS was caused 
by Fiscale. So I dont consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding this complaint Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 1 
April 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman