DRN-2431267
Complaint
Mr F has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with an unaffordable 
loan. He says the proper affordability checks werent considered.  
Background
L2G provided Mr F with a loan of £1,000.00 in August 2019. This loan had an APR of 
1,013.2% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £4,114.08 
was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £228.56.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided this 
loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. L2G disagreed with our 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Fs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr F would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks more likely than not have shown that Mr F 
wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr F would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr F. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mr F undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an online income and expenditure assessment with Mr F prior to 
providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr F confirmed that he was 
earning around £1,500.00 a month and had expenditure of £700 a month. L2G added an 
additional amount to this to reflect what it saw on his credit file. This left him with around 
£650 a month which was more than enough to cover the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But the credit check it carried out showed that 
Mr F had taken out significant amounts of short-term lending in the lead up to this 
application. So the information on Mr Fs credit file was significantly at odds with someone 
who had a monthly disposable income of £650.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Mr Fs actual credit 
commitments and monthly expenditure instead of choosing to rely on an over optimistic 
calculation of his monthly disposable income primarily based on what hed declared. As I cant see that this L2G did do this, or in fact take any steps at all to address the 
mismatch between the disposable income it thought Mr F had and the information on his 
credit file, I dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Mr F with his loan were 
reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr F would more 
likely than not have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mr F wouldve
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr F could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear Mr F was in a 
cycle of short-term lending. And its clear that he was using such loans to supplement his 
income and repay previous debts. I also think that further scrutiny of Mr Fs financial position 
would have led to L2G discovering the reasons behind why his debt had become 
problematic. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr F would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr F was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significance adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And Ive carefully thought about what           
Mr F has said about the clarity of the information provided. But having looked at the 
documentation Im satisfied that it is clear the term of the loan is 18-months. Id also add that 
L2Gs information also sets out just how eye-wateringly expensive the loan is too. 
So, as this is the case, and as Ive not seen anything else in the file to suggest that it did, I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way.
Did Mr F lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Mr F is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr F by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any
payments Mr F has made should be deducted from the £1,000.00 he was
originally lent.Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it intends to collect on the 
outstanding balance on Mr Fs account, once all adjustments have been made, and its the 
case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman