DRN-3130639
The complaint
Ms C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt considered her claim under her legal 
expenses policy fairly.
 
Any reference to Aviva includes things said or done by its agent. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the events of this complaint. So, Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
But first, Im aware a different ombudsman has considered another of Ms Cs complaints 
about this claim under her legal expenses policy. For clarity, my decision will only focus on 
issues which are separate to, or which post-date, the period the ombudsman considered.  
Ms C has a legal insurance policy which is underwritten by Aviva. Ms C sought to use her 
legal cover in respect of an ongoing dispute regarding the use of her land by neighbours of 
nearby properties.
In August 2020, Avivas panel firm of solicitors completed a legal assessment of the claim 
and found - on the information it had been provided by Ms C - the legal action didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success. And so, as a condition of the policy hadnt been met, Aviva 
declined the claim. 
Aviva said if Ms C provided new information its solicitor would review this to see if it changed 
their legal assessment or Ms C could challenge the opinion in the form a legal assessment 
from her preferred solicitor. Ms C disagreed with the legal opinion and said she wanted to 
challenge the assessment. 
In December 2020, upon receipt of new information from Ms C, Avivas panel firm of 
solicitors said the claim, in relation to the issue of trespass, had reasonable prospects of 
success. Aviva explained to Ms C what its solicitor has said would be proportionate next 
steps  namely, sending a letter from Ms Cs solicitors to the relevant neighbouring 
properties. In January 2021, Aviva sent its terms of business to Ms Cs preferred solicitor. 
Ms C remained unhappy because: her claim was only being partially covered; she thought 
the legal assessment was wrong; the hourly rate payable to her preferred solicitor was 
insufficient to cover the costs, thered been delays in Aviva responding to emails and 
customer service had been poor overall. 
In February 2021, Aviva provided its final response in which it said it was satisfied it had 
dealt with Ms Cs claim in a fair and reasonable manner, and that there had not been any 
undue delay in how it was handled.
Ms C brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it and was satisfied 
that overall, Aviva had acted fairly and so she didnt uphold it. Ms C disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. 
Prospects of success
Its standard practice for a legal expenses policy to include a condition which requires the 
claim to have reasonable prospects of success and that these prospects will be reviewed 
on a continuing basis. This is reflected in Ms Cs policy, which says: 
We are only able to accept a claim that enjoys reasonable prospects of success. At 
any time, we may form the view that the insured does not have a reasonable chance 
of winning the case and achieving a reasonable outcome.
Its not unfair for the insurer to require there to be prospects of success before it agrees 
cover because the insurer carries the risk of having to pay the other sides costs as well as 
the customers costs if the case is lost. 
A different ombudsman has already considered a complaint about the initial prospects of 
success and so, I wont be commenting on this. What Im deciding is whether Aviva treated 
Ms C fairly after it received new information from her  which led to updated prospects of 
success being issued by its panel firm of solicitors. 
In response to the initial prospects of success, Ms C provided further evidence she wanted 
the solicitors to consider. Aviva shared this with the solicitors and in December 2020, the 
solicitors gave an updated legal opinion to Aviva. In essence, the opinion said that in light of 
the new information, part of Ms Cs claim had prospects of success. 
From what Ive seen, Aviva handled Ms Cs request as I would expect it to. It waited for the 
information she said she wanted to provide and shared this with the solicitors for its 
comments. I appreciate Ms C remains unhappy that only part of her claim has been 
accepted as having prospects of success, but having not seen anything to persuade me that 
the legal opinion is wrong or has been given by someone unqualified to do so, Im satisfied 
Aviva was entitled to rely on the solicitors legal advice. 
I appreciate Ms C is frustrated at having incurred costs to obtain further evidence to support 
her claim, but in the first instance its for the policyholder to show they have a valid claim. 
The onus is on her to share with Aviva, and in turn, the solicitors, as much information as 
possible to enable the solicitors to assess prospects of success. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Aviva to reimburse her the costs shes incurred in respect of this.  
Aviva has explained  and its set out in the policy document - that if Ms C remained 
unhappy with the legal opinions, she could challenge it by way of a legal opinion from her 
preferred solicitors, but this would be at a cost to herself. So, Im satisfied Aviva has made it 
clear to Ms C what her options are. 
Proportionality 
Another standard requirement of a legal expenses policy is that the claim should be 
proportionate to pursue. This is a condition of Ms Cs policy  which says: 
 the lawyer will also consider proportionality (this means the amount of damages 
being pursued compared with the estimated costs to pursue your case). 
It goes on to say that when considering a case, the lawyer:a) has a legal obligation not to waste court time and to keep costs to a level that the 
court would consider reasonable. 
b) will estimate the likely costs of your case and consider if they would be acceptable 
to a reasonable person who was paying those costs themselves. 
c) will agree with you, where possible, a course of action where the costs and 
expenses would be considered reasonable by the court.
The policy makes it clear that a solicitor  not Aviva  is responsible for determining whether 
its proportionate to pursue a case. Ive looked at the most recent prospects of success in 
which the solicitor advises that whilst Ms C did have prospects of success for part of her 
claim, a proportionate response would be to send letters to the owners of the properties to 
which the dispute is about. This was because the solicitor couldnt suggest that substantial 
legal costs would be proportionate. Based on this, Aviva agreed to cover in respect of the 
letters.
I appreciate Ms C doesnt think this is fair, but as explained above, Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me the legal advice shouldnt be relied on. Aviva has offered to provide cover  
and whilst this might not be to the extent Ms C wants  its decision is based on legal advice. 
So, Im satisfied its acted fairly in respect of this.
Preferred solicitors 
Based on cover being provided for sending a letter to each owner to whom the dispute is 
about, Aviva sent its terms of business to Ms Cs preferred solicitors. The policy document 
sets out when a policy holder can choose their own solicitor, and that choice arises if court 
proceedings are issued, theres a conflict of interest or if Aviva consider the claim to be 
complex and requiring a specialist solicitor. 
Our investigator explained that as these circumstances didnt apply to Ms Cs case, Avivas 
decision to send its terms of business to Ms Cs preferred solicitor was in fact something it 
wasnt required to do at that time. And I agree. 
Despite what the policy says, a policyholder should be able to choose their own solicitor 
when they reach the point that its necessary to start proceedings  they shouldnt have to 
wait until proceedings have actually been issued. But in any event, Ms C hadnt reached the 
stage of starting court proceedings, so she wasnt entitled to use her own solicitors. 
Ms C has said Aviva treated her unfairly by not increasing the hourly rate its prepared to pay 
her preferred solicitor  she feels this has left her in a disadvantaged position as she cant 
obtain the legal advice she needs without incurring costs herself. But I dont agree, and Ill 
explain why. 
First, at the point Aviva sent its terms of business to Ms Cs preferred solicitor, it wasnt 
obliged to give Ms C the freedom to choose her own solicitor as none of the circumstances 
mentioned above applied. So, Aviva did so as a gesture of goodwill. Second, the hourly rate 
Aviva agreed to pay is in line with the guideline rates for Ms Cs area and the level of 
expertise needed for her case. Third, although Ms C might consider the hourly rate to be too 
low, she wasnt prevented from moving her case forward  namely, having letters sent  
because she still had the option of using Avivas panel firm of solicitors. So, Im not 
persuaded shes been disadvantaged or that Aviva has acted unfairly. 
Claims handling Ms C says that overall, the customer service she has received from Aviva has been poor. 
She says shes experienced avoidable delays. From what Ive seen her claim was 
progressed in a timely manner. I havent seen anything to persuade me that Ms C has 
suffered inconvenience or distress beyond what would be reasonably expected when 
pursuing legal action. And so, I wont be asking Aviva to pay her any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman