DRN-2241807
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. I say this because Lloyds has provided a copy of the paperwork available from the 
time Mr B applied for the policy. An application form separate to the mortgage was 
completed to take this policy which was also signed by Mr B.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr B was eligible for the cover 
and although he had existing means he still seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr B says he had medical conditions some time before 
the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I 
say this because I dont have enough to say Mr B continued to have problems related to 
the conditions that he would have thought he would need to claim for.  There were also 
no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr B would have declined the 
cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Mr B has further complained about the amount of commission that may have been paid with 
his policy. As we have previously explained The Supreme Court decided a case that 
involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance. And the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the rules for financial businesses  
introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to follow when looking at PPI 
complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need to give consumers back some of 
the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
There are certain types of mortgage agreement this doesnt apply to  one of which is
whats known as a regulated mortgage. From the information Ive seen, Mr Bs mortgage 
was a regulated mortgage. So, these rules and guidance dont apply.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman