DRN-2454476
The complaint
Mrs S has complained Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, wont 
refund disputed transactions on her Cashplus account she didnt authorise.
What happened
After getting an email from Cashplus on 29 July 2019 reminding her of her 8-digit passcode, 
Mrs S updated her account. She also contacted Cashplus as she was concerned why this 
had happened. This resulted in a new card being sent to her. Unbeknownst to Mrs S a 
replacement card  to replace the card due to expire at the end of July  had been sent to 
her on 22 July. Shed not received this.
Mrs S kept an eye out for her new card and PIN (which shed also requested) but these 
didnt arrive. She again contacted Cashplus on 5 August but had to end the call early. So it 
wasnt until a couple of days later she learnt 12 transactions had been carried out using the 
card sent on 29 July. More than £15,000 was spent. She asked Cashplus to refund her.
Although Cashplus believed the transactions did look fraudulent, they held her liable due to 
negligence in providing an unsecure address to receive your card. Mrs S brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. On Cashpluss side this showed no new PIN had 
been given to Mrs S despite her request and that her replacement card  ordered on 29 July 
 had been activated online on 3 August. As he was unable to see how Mrs Ss PIN could 
have been compromised he believed Mrs S must have authorised these transactions.
In response Mrs S raised a number of issues, including wondering whether this fraud could 
have been facilitated by Cashpluss own staff or card production facilities. Our investigator 
reassured her this hadnt happened.
As she couldnt accept this outcome, Mrs S asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 November 2020. I believed there was enough 
evidence to show Mrs S hadnt made or authorised these transactions. I asked Cashplus to 
refund her in full.
Mrs S accepted this outcome. We received nothing in response from Cashplus.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
In broad terms a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. 
Mrs S raised the issue whether Cashplus should have noticed the nature of the transactions 
being undertaken on 3 August 2019 and intervened to stop these. I can see why as the 
evidence shows whoever was using Mrs Ss card may well have bought three used cars 
within a few hours. Cashplus has told us the usage wasnt outside of her normal spending 
pattern but I believe the evidence shows this isnt the case at all.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Cashplus and Mrs S have told us. Cashplus has given us selective pieces of 
evidence from Mrs Ss account history. Up to quite recently it still seemed confused about 
whether a new PIN was issued to Mrs S or not. Despite Mrs S requesting a new PIN after 
the person she spoke to on 29 July suggesting this, Cashpluss evidence shows no new PIN 
was issued:
I note it also hasnt been able to provide us with evidence of Mrs Ss online banking history 
showing how or where her new card was activated.
I can see the timeline of events and Mrs Ss testimony were covered in our investigators 
view of 11 June 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, 
refer to those aspects which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Mrs S and 
Cashplus Ive read the file thoroughly. Ive noted the additional issues Mrs S raised after our 
investigators view although none of these have really impacted the decision Im reaching.
The issues Ive considered include:
Cashplus originally felt the transactions looked fraudulent and believed it was most 
likely Mrs S hadnt authorised these. 
Cashplus has not been able to show why a reminder for Mrs Ss passcode was 
emailed to her.
Mrs S lived in a block of flats and its clear that anyone could have had access to her 
post. I dont agree with Cashplus that Mrs S was acting in a grossly negligent manner 
 which is the test under the PSRs  by not having a secure means of getting her 
post. In fact Mrs S seems to have been aware of trying to keep her post secure by asking about alternative means of getting her PIN. 
Mrs S has confirmed a PIN was sent to her by text when the final card  after the 
disputed transactions  was sent out, as well as the PIN being sent by post, despite 
her requesting this not to happen. Ive seen this evidence which relates to a separate 
card and not the one used for the disputed transactions. However this does open the 
distinct possibility a new PIN was also issued for the earlier card when it was 
dispatched on 29 July.
Cashplus has told us all 12 disputed transactions were carried out on 3 August after 
whoever had Mrs Ss new card was able to activate it online. Theres no dispute 
these look fraudulent as these included high-value items purchased for possible re-
sale.
Cashplus provided us with audit details for a few of the disputed transactions. Having 
looked at the merchants processing the relevant payments, I find at least two of 
these to be incompatible. A transaction using the genuine card and PIN was 
processed at 13:07 on 3 August in Middlesex for £1,950 supposedly for IT 
consultancy services. Then at 13:10 the same day a transaction for £4,450 was 
made in person  again using the genuine card and PIN  for a second-hand car in 
Coventry. Im not sure this is actually possible. This makes me doubt what the 
evidence is supposedly confirming.
Whoever used Mrs Ss card was able to get hold of her new card  which may well not have 
been difficult in itself and find out Mrs Ss PIN. Mrs S has told us she didnt share her PIN 
with anyone and having looked at her account usage, I cant see that she used her card that 
frequently so may well have retained her original PIN information.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN and 
online security details to be compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mrs S 
in this case) authorised these transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else 
could have got hold of Mrs Ss card, made these transactions or to investigate who that 
potential fraudster may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mrs Ss card without her consent. Ive thought about the different scenarios that could 
have happened here. That includes the evidence from Cashplus showing the odd 
particularities of the transactions and the evidence Mrs S has shared about the subsequent 
card delivery. I believe its more than likely that Mrs Ss new card could have been misused 
and someone took steps to find out Mrs Ss PIN and activated her new card.  
Its worth confirming Ive also considered whether Mrs S has been lying to us and that she 
allowed someone else to use her card and PIN hoping to benefit from items that were 
purchased. But Ive seen nothing that suggests this is the most likely scenario.
Overall I think the evidence about the transactions outweighs the issues around the 
activation of Mrs Ss card. On balance I dont believe Mrs S made or authorised the 
transactions so Cashplus will need to sort things out by refunding Mrs S.
Mrs S raised her concerns that all this had happened with collusion on behalf of Cashplus. I 
dont agree with this reading of what happened but I appreciate her desperation to try and 
get at what happened has led her to think this way.
Putting things rightAs Ive decided Mrs S didnt authorise these transactions, Cashplus will need to refund all 
the disputed transactions along with 8% simple interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited, trading as Cashplus, to:
Refund all the disputed transactions made with card ending 6016 on 3 and 4 August 
2019;
Add 8% simple interest to these transactions from 5 August 2019 until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman