DRN-2540236
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs V complain that One Insurance Limited have unfairly declined their buildings 
insurance claim for accidental damage.        
What happened
   In September 2019 Mr and Mrs V made a claim under their buildings insurance policy for 
damage caused to their bedroom ceiling when Mr V accidentally put his foot through the 
ceiling while in the loft. The ceiling was plasterboard. 
One Insurance made arrangements for their contractors to carry out the repairs and Mr and 
Mrs V paid the policy excess of £200. 
On 4 October 2019 the contractor arrived to carry out repairs, which was to overboard and 
skim the entire ceiling as there was some bowing to the existing ceiling plasterboards. 
However, on arrival, the plasterer advised Mr V that he couldnt overboard the ceiling as the 
screws would not go through the boards. He told Mr V that he would need to take down the 
existing ceiling. The contractor then started to remove the ceiling.  
Shortly afterwards, the contractors office telephoned Mr V and advised that they would have 
to stop work as the ceiling boards were bowed because of previous water damage and this 
would need to be referred back to the insurers.  
Mr V contacted One Insurance who advised that the contractors were unable to proceed with 
the repair as the accidental damage had been caused due to the ceiling boards being 
weakened by water damage. 
Mr V told One Insurance that he has lived in the property since 1997, and he has never had 
a leak in that time, so any damage must be pre 1997. The ceiling boards have been bowed 
all of the time he has lived there.   
One Insurance advised they would need to send a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster arrived on 
7 October 2019. Mr V says that the loss adjuster told him that the water damage was 
historical and the accident was not attributable to the damage. The loss adjusters confirmed 
on 9 October 2019 that they had sent their report to One Insurance by e mail. 
Mr and Mrs V did not hear from One Insurance, so Mr V contacted them on 17 October, 23 
October and 4 November 2019 for an update. On 4 November 2019 he was advised that the 
claim had been denied on the basis of the contractors view that there was weakening due to 
water damage.
One Insurance made the bedroom ceiling safe but the job was not completed, and the 
ceiling which had been removed was left in Mr and Mrs Vs front garden by the contractors 
for the loss adjusters to examine.  One Insurance refused to refund the £200 excess Mr and 
Mrs V had paid as they said that the cost of making the ceiling safe exceeded the excess. 
Mr and Mrs V complained. One Insurance issued a final response on 11 December 2019 
which confirmed that the claim was being declined and advised that their contractor who 
attended the property advised that the floorboards had been affected due to a previous leak 
which had weakened the boards and contributed to the damage that led to the claim. 
Mr and Mrs V were unhappy with this as they say the damage is historic, and as Mr V is tall 
and heavy the damage was caused solely by him slipping on the joist and putting his foot 
through the ceiling.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. She decided that One 
Insurance should deal with the claim under the terms of the policy and pay £150 to Mr and 
Mrs V for the inconvenience caused. 
One Insurance disagree with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to 
review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether One Insurance have acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying the policy exclusions to Mr and Mrs Vs claim. 
One Insurance have accepted that Mr V falling through the plasterboard ceiling was an 
accident within the terms of the policy but say that damage caused results from one of the 
policy exclusions.   
One Insurance have said that the previous leak had weakened the plasterboards and have 
applied two of the exclusions that are in the terms of the policy. These are that the damage 
results from wear and tear or from lack of maintenance. 
 
I am unable to agree with One Insurances view. 
The burden is on One Insurance to show that the policy exclusions apply. They rely on the 
contractors report which says that the contractors engineer found there was an escape of 
water causing damage to the floorboards. It is unclear how or when the leak occurred, 
however, the engineer is insistent that there is no way the policyholder would have gone 
through the floorboard if a leak had not happened. 
One Insurance didnt provide any further detailed information about the previous water 
damage, or any photographs. After our investigator issued her view, they have provided 
some photographs of the ceiling.  These photographs do not show any bowing or water 
damage to the ceiling but do show the hole in the plasterboard caused by Mr Vs foot. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that One Insurance have shown that notwithstanding any 
bowing or previous water damage, which has not been proven in any event, the weight of a 
man of Mr Vs size slipping off a joist would not break through this plasterboard. I therefore 
dont consider that it is fair for One Insurance to apply the exclusion for wear and tear to this 
claim. I am also unable to agree that One Insurance have shown that the lack of maintenance 
exclusion applies. Mr V was unaware of any historic leak until the contractor mentioned it, 
and he has lived in the house for 22 years, so I dont think its fair to say that he had failed to 
maintain something that he was unaware of and was not causing an issue until the accident.
 
I have asked One Insurance for a copy of the loss adjusters report, but they have been 
unable to provide it as it was not prepared for this accidental damage claim, but for the 
buildings insurance. We have asked the loss adjusters directly and they have not provided a 
copy either. However, whilst this may have been useful, I dont think that this would be likely 
to change my view. 
In terms of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs V, the contractor removed 
their ceiling and left it in the front garden. I understand they had to take several trips to the 
tip to dispose of this themselves after the claim as declined. This caused them 
inconvenience, costing time and fuel. I also note that Mr V had to chase One Insurance for a 
response and an update several times after they had stopped the contractor mid job. I think 
that given the circumstances they could have done more to keep Mr and Mrs V updated. In 
view of the inconvenience caused, I agree with the investigator that an award for distress 
and inconvenience is warranted. I find that the sum of £150 is fair. 
As I am satisfied that the claim is covered by the policy, it follows that One Insurance is 
entitled to retain the excess that Mr V has paid. 
Mr and Mrs V have confirmed that no further repair work has been done to the ceiling since 
the contractors left and so the repair is still outstanding. 
  
My final decision
 I am therefore directing One Insurance Limited to complete the repair to the ceiling in Mr 
and Mrs Vs home under the terms of the policy. 
I am also directing them to pay £150 for the inconvenience caused. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman