DRN-2257452
The complaint
Miss J complains that says she took out a fixed sum loan agreement through Arnold Clark 
Automobiles Limited (Arnold Clark) believing it to have a voluntary termination (VT)clause. 
She would like her agreement to have this option
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
I appreciate its very hard for Miss J to confirm what she says she was told when she 
took out her loan. However, she has told us she had a previous PCP agreement and 
that the right to VT the agreement was important to her. So, I am surprised she didnt 
specifically check the contract to ensure she had this option.
Miss J  said she didnt have time to read through the documentation at the point of 
sale and felt pressured to agree the loan. Unfortunately, I have no evidence to 
support that.  Miss J could have asked to be shown the relevant VT clause.
I have seen all the documentation Miss J had and signed for. The loan is clearly 
stated as a fixed sum loan agreement. And there are numerous references to the  60 
payments that made up the loan. There is no reference to being able to VT the loan.
One of the documents Miss J signed was a declaration to say she understood the 
agreement she was entering, and it met her needs. 
Unfortunately, I have no evidence to show that Miss J was mis led over the loan she 
took out. She signed to say she understood the terms of the loan and it met her 
needs. So, I dont feel I can fairly ask Arnold Clark to allow her the option to VT her 
car as if she had taken out a PCP agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
