DRN-2150705
The complaint
Mr L complains, on behalf of his late mother Mrs L, about how Lloyds Bank PLC have dealt 
with his claim for subsidence at Mrs Ls former property.
What happened
Mrs L had a home insurance policy with Lloyds to cover her residential property. She very 
sadly passed away in 2018 and Mr L was the sole beneficiary of the property.
Before Mrs L passed away, she was having work done on the property. Afterwards the 
builders continued the work and discovered potential subsidence. Mr L made a claim on the 
policy and Lloyds appointed contractors to examine the damage and determine the cause. 
Mr L also appointed his own loss assessor to manage the claim. 
Following the first visit, Lloyds loss adjustor produced a report. This concluded that some 
areas of damage to the drive and to the storm drains wouldnt be covered under the policy 
as this was due to an exhausted soakaway.
Following receipt of the report Lloyds appointed a contractor to carry out the work. However 
once the contractor visited the property they said they wouldnt be able to complete the work 
as it required specialist work that they didnt do. They advised another company that could 
be used. However Mr L sourced his own local contractor and Lloyds agreed that Mr Ls 
contractor could complete the work and it would pay them directly.
The works were completed towards the beginning of 2019. However Mr L was unhappy with 
how the claim had been handled and he made a complaint. Amongst other things, he said 
the claim had taken too long to conclude and he wasnt happy that Lloyds hadnt issued a 
Certificate of Structural Adequacy (COSA) once the work was complete. 
Lloyds responded and upheld Mr Ls complaint. It agreed there had been some delays in the 
claim and offered a total of £600 compensation to make up for this. However it said that It 
wasnt able to provide a COSA as one of its appointed agents hadnt completed the work. 
Mr L didnt think this was fair. He said the compensation didnt reflect the distress and 
inconvenience Lloyds had caused by the delays and lack of contact. And he felt it should 
provide a COSA. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
thought it was reasonable for Lloyds not to provide a COSA as its agents hadnt completed 
the work and he thought £600 was sufficient to make up for the delays in the claim.
Mr L didnt agree with this and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has raised a large number of points as part of his complaint. As this is an informal 
service I havent addressed them all individually. However I want to reassure Mr L that I 
have considered everything he has provided. 
Service and delays
I appreciate this claim has gone on for some time so I can understand why Mr L is frustrated.  
I have reviewed all the correspondence from the claim as well as assessing a timeline of the 
events, in order to establish whether the delays could have been avoided by Lloyds. 
Subsidence claims are often complex and involve a number of different contractors. This is 
likely to slow down a claim as contact between the contractors can be time consuming. So 
claims will often take a while to resolve.
In this case I can see that Lloyds progressed the claim promptly to begin with. The loss 
adjustor was sent out in good time and then a repairer was promptly arranged. 
Mr L has complained that the repairer was inappropriate as they werent able to complete 
the work and someone else needed to be appointed after the visit. Although I sympathise 
with him, as this did no doubt add time onto the lengthy claim, I cant say this is the fault of 
Lloyds. Investigations needed to begin in order to identify what work would need to be 
carried out. And at the time the contractor was appointed, Lloyds wouldnt have been aware 
that they wouldnt be able to complete the work. So I dont think it is reasonable to say this 
delay could have been avoided.
After this point Mr L appointed his own contractors to complete the repairs. So I cant hold 
Lloyds accountable for the time it took them to complete the job. However I do agree that 
Lloyds caused a number of delays with authorisation of work and payment of invoices. And I 
can see that this did cause the claim to go on for longer than it should have.
Further Mr L has said that a number of his letters were disregarded and not responded to, 
and I agree this would be distressing considering the claim was already taking some time to 
resolve. 
However Lloyds has already offered a total of £600 compensation and I think this is sufficient 
given the service provided and they delays. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
Providing a COSA
I can appreciate why Mr L is keen to obtain a COSA in order to be satisfied that the work is 
completed to a suitable standard. However I dont agree this is Lloyds responsibility. Lloyds 
has agreed for Mr L to use his own contractors and reimburse them for the insured work. So 
although it has authorised the work, it hasnt selected or vetted the contractor that has been 
used. So I would expect it to provide a COSA.
Mr L should speak to the company who carried out the work in order to make this request 
directly to them.
Disagree with findings in reportMr L has also expressed that he doesnt agree with the report issued by Lloyds loss 
adjustor. However he hasnt provided any evidence to support this view. At this service we 
arent experts in building work or subsidence  so we have to rely on the opinions of those 
who are. The report that has been produced by Lloyds contractor was put together by an 
expert in subsidence claims. And in the absence of any counter reports, I dont see a reason 
to dispute the findings contained in it. 
For the reasons I have explained, I agree there have been some avoidable delays in the 
claim that have caused it to go on longer than we would expect. However as Lloyds has 
already offered £600 to make up for these delays, I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and the 
estate of Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman