DRN-1822599
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that the Bank of Scotland (BoS) closed her account and sold her debt on 
to a debt collector without telling her. 
What happened
In 2017, Miss J told BoS that she was having financial difficulties as she was no longer able 
to work overtime and her monthly income had reduced. In 2018 Miss J said she agreed to 
pay £50 per month to help reduce her overdraft balance. And later reduced this to £25 per 
month as she continued to struggle with her finances. 
Miss J said her situation worsened when she lost her job. But she continued to discuss her 
account with BoS and maintained her agreed monthly payment. But in September 2019 Miss 
J said she was told her overdraft had been cleared and she didnt need to make any more 
payments. So, she was surprised and upset when she was contacted by a debt collection 
business asking her to pay the outstanding balance. Miss J complained to BoS.
BoS said that they look to help their customers who are in both short and long term financial 
difficulties. And had transferred Miss Js account to their customer debt recovery (CDR) 
team. This meant Miss Js account was closed and a default recorded on her credit file. 
BoS said they should have taken this action sooner as Miss J had been experiencing 
financial difficulty for some time. They refunded fees that Miss J had been charged from 
2017 when theyd known she was having financial difficulty. And apologised for their 
customer service as Miss J hadnt been called back. They paid Miss J £200 in recognition of 
this. BoS also backdated Miss Js credit file to record the default from September 2018, 
when her account should have been transferred to their CDR team, so that the six year 
record of the default would start from a more accurate date. 
Miss J wasnt happy with their response. She said she was told her overdraft had been 
cleared. And she hadnt been told the outcome of her complaint, BoS had just put £200 into 
her account without asking her about it. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said BoS had tried to help Miss J with her financial difficulties. But could 
have done more to keep her informed about what was happening to her account. But she 
said the £200 BoS had offered for this was fair and reasonable.
Miss J didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.Financial difficulties can occur at any time and one of the causes can be the inability to work 
or unemployment, which is a cause here. When this happens, Id expect a lender to consider 
any consumer experiencing financial difficulty in a positive and sensitive way.
The consumer credit sourcebook (CONC) provides guidance to lenders as to what would be 
expected. CONC section 7 says lenders should consider a variety of ways they can help 
such as below: 
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from unexpected reduction in income
Lenders should inform the consumer that free debt advice is available and provide 
details
Lenders shouldnt refuse reasonable affordable repayment proposals made by the 
borrower, debt counsellor or other person authorised by borrower
Lenders shouldnt pressure borrowers to make unreasonably large payments where 
this will have an adverse impact on their financial position, or pressure them into 
selling property to repay a loan
Lenders should take proportionate action against a consumer in arrears or default.
 
So, in determining my decision I have considered whether BoS has been fair and reasonable 
in its actions with Miss J.
I can see from 2014 Miss J was regularly using her overdraft facility and on occasion paying 
a fee for unplanned use of this facility. But from June 2017, even though Miss J was still 
getting her monthly salary I can see she was consistently using her overdraft facility, and at 
times she had an unarranged overdraft balance.  
In September 2017, Miss J told BoS she was having financial difficulty as her monthly salary 
had reduced as she was no longer able to work overtime. Miss J agreed to pay a reduced 
amount towards her loan account. But BoS said she was still within her overdraft limit and to 
call back if she had difficulty with the charging structure. Miss J was also told about the effect 
of making a reduced payment to her credit history.
In October 2017 when Miss J called back, BoS told her about options for repayment, and 
they waived all pending charges on the account. Miss J was confident her situation would 
improve and the arrangement was agreed for 30 days. In November 2017, BoS again 
discussed options but Miss J asked for the same arrangement for another 30 days. 
In December 2017 Miss J was passed through to BoS collections department who arranged 
for her wages and bills to be moved to another account so that they could be separated from 
the outstanding overdraft balance. This gave Miss J access to her income and allowed her to 
maintain her household bills. Miss J agreed to pay £50 per month from January 2018 for 
three months to reduce the outstanding overdraft balance. And I can see this was extended 
for a further three months from April 2018. BoS also signposted Miss J to organisations that 
can help people experiencing financial problems.
In all the letters sent to Miss J that followed these arrangements the details showed what her 
outstanding balance was, what the agreed monthly payment was. And that she had a 
temporary overdraft limit during this time.In July 2018, when the arrangement had ended BoS wrote to Miss J outlining that she no 
longer had an overdraft limit, but she still had an outstanding balance on her account. And 
that she needed to get in touch to discuss how she was going to repay this. The letter said:
Even if you think you are only able to offer very low payments, call us to see what 
options are available and what support we can give you to stop your situation getting worse. 
Miss J didnt get in touch with BoS and I can see that another letter was sent at the end of 
July 2018 again asking her to get in touch. This letter also showed the outstanding balance 
on her account. I cant see any contact was made or an agreement made between Miss J 
and BoS as to the way forward. But I can see that Miss J started to make a regular monthly 
payment of £25 to her account. There isnt any record of further contact until January 2019 
when BoS sent Miss J formal notification that they would be closing the account.
The letter said :
As we havent been able to agree a way forward, this is a Formal Demand to repay the 
full overdraft balance shown above.
And went on to say if Miss J couldnt bring her account up to date or agree a suitable way 
forward by the end of the month, they would close the account in two months from the date 
of the letter. It also said it would update her credit file with a default and could look to recover 
the money she owed through a debt collection agency.
Before the end of the month Miss J spoke to BoS and was told she would be getting a 
default letter. But to keep making the payments until the recoveries team got in touch with 
her. I cant see a record of the default letter being sent or any call back was made. And in 
February 2019 BoS told Miss J her outstanding balance was £1420 and that they would be 
closing her account in 30 days if the arrears werent cleared. The letter said her account 
would be passed to their recoveries team. And went on to say:
If you cant pay the amount in one go, we may be prepared to accept a reduced 
sum together with a realistic suggestion for making regular monthly payments. Coming to 
an arrangement like this may mean we dont need to close your account. 
I cant see that Miss J got in touch with BoS, but she continued to make her £25 per month 
payment. But in March 2019, Miss Js account was closed. So, Miss Js payment also 
stopped. 
I can see from BoS records that from then they were considering selling Miss Js debt. But 
no action was taken until September 2019 when Miss J called into her branch to query the 
status of her account. I can see that Miss J was told BoS were looking to sell her debt to an 
external debt collector. And that she would be contacted either by the collections team or the 
external debt collection agency about the setting up of a payment plan. And Im pleased to 
see that Miss J has since made an arrangement to pay £25 per month with the debt 
collection agency to clear her outstanding debt.
From the details above I think BoS, when Miss J told them she was having financial difficulty 
did try to help her. And their actions were what Id expect and in line with CONC. And Im 
pleased to see that BoS has now refunded Miss J the residual interest and charges that had 
been added to the account from September 2017, when they first knew Miss J was having 
financial difficulty.  But from July 2018 the communications with Miss J seemed to break down. And in March 
2019, her account was closed without any way forward being agreed. So, I can understand 
Miss Js confusion as to what was happening and what she needed to do. 
BoS should have kept Miss J better informed about what was happening after her agreed 
arrangement ended in July 2018. But I cant say that Miss J wasnt made aware that she still 
owed a debt to BoS. And the options they could take to seek recovery, as this had been 
outlined in the letters that she was sent.
BoS has accepted that there had been a failing in their customer service. And that they 
should have passed Miss Js account to their CDR team sooner. In recognition of this BoS 
paid Miss J £200, which I think is fair and reasonable.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their 
payments. And says any information reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date. 
Although Miss J was still making a monthly payment of £25 I cant see that this had been 
agreed with BoS. So, her last agreed repayment was made in June 2018. And BoS has 
accepted that Miss Js account should have been passed to their CDR team in September 
2018. And have updated Miss Js credit file to reflect this as an accurate date. And is what I 
would have expected. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman