DRN-4065310
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim on his van 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M was driving his van on a dual carriageway and went to move from the right hand lane 
into the left hand lane. As he was making the manoeuvre into the left hand lane a third 
partys car came down the left hand land and the two vehicles collided. Mr M therefore 
claimed on his policy with Admiral. He said the third party was driving too fast and hadnt 
been in the left hand lane when he checked his mirrors before the manoeuvre. Mr M also 
provided dash cam footage of the incident. 
Admiral reviewed the claim and didnt think it was one it could defend. It said as Mr M was 
carrying out a manoeuvre at the time it was his responsibility to ensure it was safe to do so. 
Mr M didnt agree and complained. He said the third party hadnt been in the left hand lane 
when he checked his mirrors before starting the manoeuvre and also said the third party had 
been driving too fast and was undertaking him. Mr M also said the way the claim had been 
handled hadnt been good enough and his premium had increased at renewal. 
Admiral investigated the complaint and partially upheld it. Admiral stood by its position on the 
liability for the accident but did agree there had been failings in the claim handling and so 
paid Mr M £25 for this. In regard to the premium increase at renewal, Admiral said this was 
because of the claim on Mr Ms policy, and so didnt agree it had done anything wrong when 
producing the renewal quote. Unhappy with Admirals response, Mr M brought his complaint 
here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found 
Admiral had considered the dash cam footage but didnt think Admiral had acted 
unreasonably in how it settled the claim. He also didnt recommend Admiral do anything else 
in regard to Mr Ms complaint. Unhappy with the outcome our investigator, reached Mr M 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As Mr M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, like most policies we see, give Admiral the right 
to take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make 
a decision Mr M disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the 
third party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Admiral made a reasonable decision in 
doing this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
Mr M explained he had overtaken a vehicle on the dual carriageway. After hed completed 
the manoeuvre, he checked his mirrors and then started to move into the left hand lane. It 
was part way through this manoeuvre when the third party car and Mr Ms van collided in the 
left hand lane. Mr M has also provided dash cam footage of the incident. 
I can see Admiral has reviewed the dash cam footage and concluded this wasnt a claim it 
could defend, as it was Mr M who was moving into the lane the third party was driving in. Ive 
also reviewed the footage and I can understand Mr Ms frustration at the situation, 
particularly taking into account his comments about checking his mirrors along with the 
position of the third party car before the accident. However, without anything else to show 
the third party was at fault, Im satisfied Admiral acted reasonably and in line with the policy 
terms when saying this isnt a claim it could defend based on the evidence it had. Im 
therefore not going to tell Admiral to do anything else. 
I can also see Admiral has explained the premium increase at renewal is due to the claim on 
Mr Ms policy, and in line with how it rates all customers in a similar situation. And while Mr 
M isnt happy with the outcome of the claim, as Im satisfied Admiral acted fairly when 
deciding whether it was one it could defend, it follows that Im also satisfied the increase in 
premium at renewal is in line with how it would treat another customer in the same situation 
as Mr M. 
Finally, in regard to the poor claim handling, I can see Admiral acknowledged this, 
particularly around the length of time to review the dash cam footage. Im also satisfied £25 
is fair and reasonable compensation for the delay in reviewing the dash cam footage, so Im 
not going to tell Admiral to pay anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman