DRN-2712155
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc refused to let him reject a car which had 
been mis-sold. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr S acquired a second-hand car at a cost of £20,750 funded by a 
conditional sale agreement with Santander. Mr S says he believed it came with a 
performance pack as this was also mentioned on the loan agreement. 
After a few months Mr S decided he didnt wish to keep the car and asked the dealer to sell 
it. The car was again advertised as having a performance pack. Mr S subsequently took the 
car to another dealer to sell and discovered the car didnt have a performance pack and 
asked that he be allowed to reject it. 
Initially, Santander was minded to accept Mr Ss complaint and pay him some £2,000, but 
after consulting the dealer it changed tack.
Santander said that the advert submitted by Mr S as evidence of misrepresentation was 
dated 21 October 2019 and wasnt the original. It also said Mr Ss insurance evidenced the 
car wasnt a performance pack model. It contacted the dealer which explained the salesman 
was unable to select the standard model when setting up the agreement and had to set it up 
as a performance pack model. The dealer said it had made Mr S aware that the car didnt 
have the performance pack and the price reflected that.
A Santander complaint handler had incorrectly told Mr S the car had been misdescribed and 
it offered him £100 compensation for this mis-advice. Mr S remined dissatisfied and brought 
a complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended 
it be upheld.
She though the fact the dealer had subsequently advertised the car on behalf of Mr S meant 
it too believed it to have a performance pack and by inference it must have sold it to him on 
that basis. She concluded that the main reason Mr S bought the car was because it had a 
performance pack.
Santander submitted the original advert which didnt refer to the car having a performance 
pack. It also said that the car advertised by the dealer in October as having a performance 
pack was not Mr Ss car. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Santander is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality and any misrepresentation. 
I considered what information was provided by the dealer at the time of the sale to Mr S. I 
noted the original advert made no reference to the car having a performance pack. 
Assuming Mr S saw that before making his purchase, I said he would have had no reason 
think it was anything other than the standard model. I noted text exchanges from this time 
and I saw nothing that suggested the salesman said or implied the car had a performance 
pack.
At the time of sale, the only document I had seen which referred to a performance pack was 
the loan agreement. The dealer said the salesman was unable to access the standard model 
tab on the drop-down menu and had to manually input the model type. It says the salesman 
was relatively new and thought that as the car was a sports version, performance pack was 
the right description to use. I thought that was regrettable, but I could see that this would be 
possible.
I also noted the car wasnt badged as one with a performance pack. If it had been the model 
identifier would have been in red. I said I could understand that Mr S may not have been 
aware of this, but it was another indicator that the car was a standard model. 
It seems that when Mr S decided to sell the car, he asked the dealer to sell it for him and at 
that point he believed it to have a performance pack. However, when he insured the car, 
presumably at the time he bought it he didnt tell the insurer that the car had a performance 
pack. 
It seems to me that the only evidence we have been given that the car was sold as one with 
a performance pack is the note on the loan agreement. The car wasnt advertised wrongly 
and it has been established that the price paid by Mr S was fair for the model he bought. 
In summary, I said that at the time of the sale the overwhelming evidence was that the car 
was sold as a standard one and the only basis Mr S may have had for believing it was a 
performance model was the loan agreement. 
However, I agreed that it seemed to be that is what he did believe since he decided to sell 
the car shortly after purchase and asked the dealer to sell it for him. I was satisfied that at 
that point the dealer advertised it as having a performance pack, but did so on the basis of 
what it had been told by Mr S. 
I noted text exchanges from that time and Mr S said the car has a performance pack and the 
salesman appears to agree. Mr S has supplied a photo of a car shown as being for sale in 
October 2019 which says it has a performance pack, but the number plates have been 
hidden. The dealer said this was a different car. I gathered the car wasnt sold by the dealer 
and when Mr S took it elsewhere, he was told it didnt have a performance pack.
I accepted Mr S came to believe it had a performance pack, but I wasnt satisfied that came 
about as a result of the information supplied by the dealer. The loan agreement would have 
been done later, a decision to buy the car had been made so I didnt believe it would have 
unduly influenced him. As such I didnt believe there was misrepresentation. 
Nor did I consider Mr S had lost out financially. He paid a fair price for the car he bought and 
he has been able to make full use of it. The car had covered 26,000 miles at the time of sale 
and as of July 2020 it had done 50,101 miles.
Mr S didnt agree and said a lot of information had been misconstrued. He said he had been 
advised and led to buy a car which more desirable than the one he bought. He said this was shown on the paperwork, the Instagram advert, text and loan agreement. He believed huis 
car had a performance pack and advertised it as such when he tried to sell it later.
He said that the dealer had misled him and had sold him a car with a performance pack and 
this was supported by the evidence which he resubmitted. He said the car was valued a lot 
lower as it didnt have a performance pack and he thought he was getting a good deal. He 
added that he had continued to pay for the car and use it as he had no other option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr S for the detailed points he had made, but I do not consider he has put forward 
any grounds that would allow me to change my decision. I will explain why.
Much of what Mr S argues is that he believed the car had a performance pack and that must 
lead to the conclusion he had been told it was by the dealer. However, the evidence for that 
conclusion is not strong. 
The only paperwork I have seen which shows it as having the performance pack prior to his 
purchase is the loan agreement. The advert makes no reference to a performance pack, the 
badging is not for a car with the pack. The pricing was not as one would expect from a car 
with a performance pack. There are no text exchanges from that time referring to a 
performance pack. When Mr S acquired it he didnt insure it as a car with the pack. Mr S has 
not addressed any of these points in his response.
I am satisfied he believed it had the pack and I can see from the exchanges in October when 
he wanted to sell the car this is what he told the dealer. It didnt disagree with him and 
advertised the car as having the pack. Several months after the alleged misrepresentation 
the dealer advertised the car incorrectly. I cannot say that influenced Mr S to buy the car. As 
I have pointed out the advert for the sale which Mr S is complaining about was correct. 
If the car had come with the pack then I am satisfied that the dealer would have been selling 
it for a higher price. I accept that the advertised price was fair for the car Mr S bought. If the 
dealer had charged him the going rate for a car with the pack then I could see that he would 
have been financially disadvantaged. But he got what he paid for and that means he has not 
lost out financially. 
In short, I have seen no evidence, other than the loan agreement that makes any reference 
to the car having a performance pack at the time of sale.
My final decision
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should pay £100 if it has not already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman