DRN-4109954
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) refused their request to 
withdraw £5,000 from their account.
Mr and Mrs T say that a block that was subsequently applied to their account caused them 
further inconvenience.
What happened
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr and Mrs T about the cash withdrawal request being refused pending 
further evidence. But Lloyds did apologise to Mr and Mrs T and paid them £60 for the 
distress and inconvenience that they experienced due to the block on their account not being 
removed when it shouldve been.
Mr and Mrs T referred their complaint to our service. One of our investigators assessed the 
complaint and they didnt think that Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably in not allowing 
them to make the cash withdrawal. The investigator thought that the £60 that Lloyds paid Mr 
and Mrs T reasonably reflected the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs T due to the block 
not being removed from their account.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the investigators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions that the investigator reached for 
broadly the same reasons.
I understand that a friend of Mr and Mrs T who lived abroad had transferred £5,000 into Mr 
and Mrs Ts account so that Mr and Mrs T could purchase a vehicle on their behalf in the 
UK. However, when Mr and Mrs T went to withdraw the money from their account so that 
they could purchase the vehicle, the member of staff refused to process the transaction and 
asked them to provide further evidence regarding the sale of the vehicle.
From Mr and Mrs Ts explanation of events, it seems that the member of staff thought that 
the transaction could be part of a scam or fraud. This explains why Lloyds asked Mr and Mrs 
T to provide an invoice to demonstrate the sale of the vehicle was a genuine transaction.
In the circumstances, I can see why this was frustrating for Mr and Mrs T. Theyd travelled a 
long way to make the purchase. They had planned their journey carefully, so that they had 
enough time to collect the vehicle, visit family and then transport the vehicle to their friend. I 
understand that as they could not withdraw the money from their account, this resulted in 
them having to borrow from friends and family to purchase the vehicle.
That being said, there is currently a high volume of scams and fraud in operation. And banks 
and other Payment Service Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of 
financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence, especially on large 
transactions, to guard against money laundering. This means that transactions are more 
likely to be refused or blocked if the bank has suspicions that a payment may not be genuine 
or that by allowing the payment could result in financial loss to its customer.
Due to the circumstances surrounding the cash withdrawal, I can appreciate why Lloyds 
suspected that the transaction may be part of a scam or fraud. For example, there is a well-
known scam in which funds are transferred into someones account in order to purchase an 
expensive item - such as a car and then the transfer is reversed leaving the account holder 
out of pocket. I also note that Mr and Mrs T didnt give advance notice to Lloyds that they 
wanted to make a large cash withdrawal (although I acknowledge they intended to). This 
meant that Lloyds didnt have an opportunity to explain what extra information they may 
need to bring with them, to ensure the withdrawal would go as planned. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of their account, it lists a number of reasons why a 
transaction may be blocked  these include to protect the account holder(s) or Lloyds from 
fraud, or if Lloyds suspects the transaction has a high risk of being connected to a scam, 
fraud or other criminal activity. So Im satisfied that Lloyds was able to take such actions. 
And from everything I have seen, I think Lloyds had reasonable grounds in which to refuse 
the cash withdrawal. I also think it was not unreasonable that Lloyds asked Mr and Mrs T to 
provide further evidence to demonstrate that the money was being used to purchase a 
vehicle, before authorising the cash withdrawal.
Therefore, although the refusal of the cash withdrawal was clearly inconvenient and 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs T, at the same time I cant say that Lloyds has treated them 
unfairly or unreasonably by doing so. Lloyds refused the payment essentially to protect Mr 
and Mrs T, although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T may not have seen it that way at the time 
(or indeed since).
Due to the refusal of the cash withdrawal, I understand a block was placed on Mr and Mrs 
Ts account. However, Lloyds authorised the cash withdrawal to be made on 21 November 
2022. Unfortunately, Lloyds didnt remove the block at that point, as it shouldve done. This 
led to Mrs T being unable to make a bank transfer a few days later. Mr and Mrs T say they 
spoke to Lloyds fraud team and had to pass security three times, and after being on the 
phone for quite some time, were eventually able to get the block removed.
As Mr and Mrs T were attempting to get a block removed from their account, I think it is 
reasonable that they would need to pass stringent security questions  including when they 
were transferred between departments of Lloyds on the phone. I also think its reasonable 
that Lloyds fraud department would need some time to look through its systems to 
understand whatd happened first, before concluding that the block could be removed. 
Lloyds confirmed that the block was still on the account in error and shouldve been removed 
once the withdrawal was processed.
Having considered the inconvenience Mr and Mrs T incurred in having to get the block 
removed, I think £60 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the impact the matter had on 
Mr and Mrs T.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint and I think that what 
Lloyds has already done to put matters right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman