DRN-2696484
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold an Advance Account (AA) in 2006 by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D says that the main reason she took out the AA was because HSBC incorrectly told her 
that taking out an AA would improve her chances of getting a loan. 
HSBC says that its trained staff would not have told her that because obtaining a loan is only 
dependent on a persons individual credit rating.
This sale took place 15 years ago and I wasnt there, so I can only look at the evidence 
available today. 
Loans were widely available in the marketplace in 2006, and in my view if obtaining a loan 
was Mrs Ds main consideration at the time, I think she wouldve looked for and found a loan 
that didnt require her to have a packaged bank account.
Also, if Mrs D was taking out the AA in order to get a loan, I wouldve expected to see her 
apply for a loan quite soon after opening it. But HSBC has provided evidence that it was a 
year before she did apply for a loan.
The main benefit of the AA was travel insurance cover, and HSBC has provided evidence 
that Mrs D did travel abroad regularly following the sale.
So, although I dont doubt Mrs Ds honest recollections, I think its more likely than not she 
didnt take out the AA mainly because HSBC told her it would improve her chances of getting 
a loan.
I cant see any evidence that HSBC carried out any suitability checks on Mrs D, and this 
service is aware that HSBCs sales practice at the time was to sell AAs on a non-advised 
basis.
Mrs D says that HSBC told her about the AA in great depth and Im sure it did as it was 
trying to sell the AA to her. But this is not the same as making a formal recommendation 
based on her suitability.
So, I think its more likely than not that HSBC sold the AA to Mrs D on a non-advised basis. 
This meant that the only requirement on HSBC was to provide Mrs D with enough 
information to make an informed decision about the AA.
And I think it did. I say this because Mrs D says it told her a lot about the product. And HSBC 
was trying to sell the AA, so it wouldve been in its interest to tell her all about it. I think its 
also more likely than not that HSBC sent Mrs D a welcome pack shortly after the sale which 
contained further detailed information. It was then up to Mrs D if she wanted to take out and 
keep the AA based on what shed been told.
So, although I know that Mrs D will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that 
HSBC didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman