DRN-2837955
The complaint
Mr J complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) didnt properly explain 
why it awarded him £50 compensation. He also complains that M&S later told him he had 
been in arrears on his credit card and that hed been notified of this at the time  Mr J says 
he was not and that he received no such notification. 
What happened
Between 2007 and 2017 Mr J had a credit card with M&S.
In February 2021 M&S wrote to Mr J explaining it had reviewed the quality of service hed 
received from its Collections and/or Recoveries team and that it hadnt met the standard it 
would expect. It paid him £50 compensation for this. 
Mr J rang M&S to find out what the payment was for. He didnt think hed ever been in 
arrears and didnt recall receiving any correspondence from M&S about this. Mr J explained 
he wanted to understand why hed received this payment.
M&S treated Mr Js enquiry as a complaint. It wrote to him to explain hed failed to meet the 
minimum contractual payments for certain months in 2011, 2012 and in 2013. It said it had 
written to him on each occasion to explain he was in arrears. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the response, so he brought his complaint to us. Mr J maintained that 
hed never been in arrears on his account. Mr J was also unhappy that M&S hadnt fully 
explained how these arrears were communicated to him at that time. Mr J still felt M&S had 
failed to explain the £50 payment. He said he couldnt fairly assess whether this was 
sufficient without understanding what it was that M&S did wrong. 
M&S provided our service with statements showing Mr Js account was in arrears on 
occasions. But it told our investigator that due to the passage of time it no longer held copies 
of the arrears letters it would have sent to Mr J at that time. M&S said that when the account 
was overdue it would have sent default notice letters. It explained the timing of the default 
and demand correspondence it sent to customers around that time was not in line with 
todays policy standards and this is why it had since offered £50 compensation to Mr J.
  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint as he felt M&S had offered sufficient 
evidence of the default and explanation behind the reasons behind the compensation. 
Mr J disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mr Js complaint is that he either didnt go into arrears or, if he did, he wasnt notified 
of his account going into arrears. The arrears in question are recorded on his statements in 
2011, 2012 and 2013.
Whilst I appreciate Mr J thought hed met all of his payment obligations, Im satisfied on the 
evidence Ive seen that Mr Js account was in arrears on occasions, albeit at very low levels 
and not for particularly long periods. I think his statements made it sufficiently clear that Mr J 
had payments overdue and so Im satisfied M&S notified him of this. 
The second part of Mr Js complaint is about the £50 compensation Mr J has recently 
received from M&S and the fact it didnt give him a sufficient explanation of why hed been 
given this.
 
I can see M&S tried to provide Mr J with a broad explanation of why it was awarding 
compensation, but this wasnt specific to him.
 
M&S has since explained that it had recently conducted a review of its historic handling of 
credit services and collections accounts. Around the time Mr J went into arrears, on some 
M&S accounts, default notices or final demand letters hadnt been sent at the correct time ie. 
theyd been sent too early or too late. Given the passage of time it didnt have complete 
records for many of the customers who may have been impacted, so it had taken the 
decision to compensate all customers who were in arrears around this time and may have 
been affected.
 
But Mr Js complaint here is about the lack of explanation. I can understand why it could 
have been confusing for Mr J to suddenly be told something had gone wrong but not to fully 
understand what this was. I can also see why he might want to better understand this so he 
could assess whether the offer was fair. But I dont think M&S has done anything wrong in its 
handling of this issue. I cant say its unreasonable for M&S to decide to send out a pro 
forma letter, rather than a bespoke one, when its writing to many customers about the same 
issue. I also think its understandable that the wording in this letter is vague given it had 
identified the issue impacted more than one type of letter and given it wasnt clear if all the 
customers it was writing to were impacted. I think its of relevance M&S wasnt responding to 
Mr J about an isolated account query or something he was concerned about. It was taking 
proactive action to try and rectify a possible historic mistake. So whilst I recognise why Mr J 
was left confused, I think M&Ss approach was reasonable in his circumstances.
I appreciate Mr J is concerned about the error itself. However, theres no evidence there 
definitely was an error in relation to the handling of his account. M&S has confirmed Mr Js 
account wasnt defaulted and this is supported by the fact Mr J told us he didnt notice any 
impact on his ability to get credit in the subsequent years. So, Im also satisfied theres no 
evidence Mr J lost out as a result of any possible issues with the default notification process. 
I hope this decision offers Mr J some additional information about what happened to resolve 
his concerns. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman