DRN-3131753
The complaint
Mr T complains Nationwide Building Society closed his account without prior consultation. 
What happened
Mr T held a bank account with Nationwide and has told us that he used it, in part, to collect 
payments from clients over the course of several years. Earlier this year, Nationwide 
reviewed Mr Ts account and took the decision to close it because it was being used for 
business purposes. Nationwide says thats against the account terms and conditions. 
Mr T complained and said Nationwide shouldve talked to him about its decision before 
taking the step of closing his account. Mr T also said hed used the account in line with 
guidance Nationwide had given for self-employed people.  Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ts 
complaint and said he was carrying out business transactions that were not permitted under 
the account terms. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Nationwide had dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr T 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has told us he used his Nationwide account in the same way for many years and was 
surprised it recently took the decision to close it. Nationwides final response says it regularly 
reviews accounts to ensure theyre being used in line with the terms. Nationwide also said it 
recently introduced a new analytical tool to help identify accounts being used for business 
purposes. So whilst I understand Mr T was surprised that Nationwide only recently took 
issue with how he used the account, it has explained why its now able to identify business 
transactions more readily. 
Mr T says he didnt use the account in the same way as a shop of limited company and that 
he collected fees from clients. Whilst that may be the case, I can also see regular payments 
being made for professional fees and other business services. Im satisfied Nationwides 
view that Mr T was using his current account for business purposes is reasonable.
Nationwides terms and conditions are clear. They say the account is for personal use and 
cannot be used for business purposes. The account terms also say Nationwide can take the 
decision to close an account for breaches of the terms and conditions by giving 60 days 
notice. As Im satisfied Nationwide fairly flagged Mr Ts account as being used in part for 
business purposes, I think it was reasonable for it to apply the account terms. 
Mr T says he shouldve been consulted before his account was closed. But the account 
terms dont say Nationwide has to discuss a decision to close an account with its customer. 
The terms say Nationwide has to give 60 days notice of its decision. Ive looked at the 
closure letter Nationwide sent Mr T and can see it gave the required notice. I dont agree 
Nationwide acted unfairly by closing Mr Ts account without consulting him first. 
In his response to the investigator, Mr T said Nationwide couldve offered him the opportunity 
to apply for a business account. He also asked why he wasnt allowed to continue using his 
personal account with the option of making business banking arrangements elsewhere. 
Without wishing to repeat the points made above, the terms set out what each party can and 
cant do in relation to the account. They say customers have to use them for personal use 
and an account can be closed if the terms are broken, which is what happened in this case. 
If Mr T wants to continue banking with Nationwide, he has the option of applying for new 
accounts. I dont agree it was unfair of Nationwide to close Mr Ts account without offering 
alternative arrangements. 
Ive considered everything Mr T has said and all the information provided by both parties. I 
appreciate Mr T feels the customer service provided was poor, but for the reasons Ive given 
above, I havent been persuaded Nationwide treated him unfairly. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
T but as Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with his complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman