DRN-3548050
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC havent refunded money he lost as a result of a 
scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In May 2021 Mr B was contacted by a third 
party about investing in cryptocurrency. The third party told Mr B she was working with a 
merchant.
So, on 15 May 2021, Mr B decided to start sending money to the merchant via an account 
he held with a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. In total he sent £7,000 from his Barclays 
account across two transactions (£3,000 and £4,000). A few days later Mr B became 
suspicious so he contacted Barclays to make a claim to see if he could get his money back. 
Barclays began its investigation and contacted the receiving bank to try and retrieve the 
funds. In July 2021 Barclays then sent a letter to Mr B saying it was able to stop the funds 
being sent. But Barclays then told Mr B it wasnt going to refund the money to Mr B because 
he sent it to an account held in his name and it wasnt able to retrieve the money from the 
receiving bank. Unhappy with this, Mr B decided to bring his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the payments 
werent unusual for Mr Bs account, so he didnt think Barclays couldve reasonably stopped 
the scam. 
Mr B disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said its not fair that the 
scammers can get away with stealing his money and Barclays had put it in writing that it was 
able to stop his funds from being sent to the cryptocurrency exchange. He added that 
Barclays couldve done more to stop his payments and recover his money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr B has been the victim of a scam. I know he feels 
strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain 
why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr B has changed his testimony throughout the time his complaint has been with our 
service. Hes mentioned that he was contacted by a third party online who was working for a 
merchant and was encouraged to invest. But he has also later mentioned that he met 
someone online who encouraged him to invest and he was romantically tricked into parting 
with his money. The impact of this is that, given the changes in Mr Bs versions of events, it 
is difficult for me to place a lot of weight on his testimony as reliable and credible evidence. 
Despite this, on balance, Im satisfied that he has been the victim of a scam and so Ive 
considered the complaint accordingly. 
It is common ground that Mr B authorised the scam payments totalling around £7,000. I 
accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr B was the victim of a scam. So, 
although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Barclays to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr B to Barclays (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity. 
So, Ive reviewed the statements Barclays has provided of Mr Bs accounts. Ive seen that he 
generally maintained a healthy balance on the account (£19,000 was in the account after the 
payments were made towards this scam) and that he made similar sized payments on the 
account previously. Ive seen a £2,000 payment on 03 February 2021 and £3,710 later in the 
same month. There was a further payment on 30 March for £3,900. And £6,000 was sent 
across three payments (£2,000 each) on 09 April 2021. Im satisfied that this established a 
pattern of spending on Mr Bs account where it wasnt unusual for him to send larger 
payments from time to time.
So, Im not satisfied the two payments Mr B made towards this scam were sufficiently 
unusual or suspicious that Barclays shouldve stopped them or contacted him to discuss the 
payments in more detail before allowing him to make them. 
Ive considered whether Barclays acted reasonably after it was made aware of the scam. 
Mr B has told this service he raised the claim within twenty-four hours of the scam. However, 
Ive found the account notes more persuasive here. According to the dated account notes, 
Mr B contacted Barclays a few days after the scam payments were made to raise a claim for 
the two disputed payments. The same day Barclays attempted to see if there was any 
money left in the receiving bank. It was told by the third-party payment provider that the 
money had been moved to the cryptocurrency exchange (to an account in Mr Bs name) and 
the cryptocurrency exchange then confirmed no funds remained  which isnt surprising 
considering Mr B said he moved the money to the cryptocurrency exchange into one of his 
accounts and then to the scammers. 
So, Im not satisfied Barclays acted unreasonably when the scam was raised.
Ive seen that Mr B was sent a letter from Barclays in July 2021 which said it was able to 
stop money from leaving his account and that he hadnt suffered a loss. But Im satisfied this 
was sent in error. Ive seen from the account statements and Barclays system that Mr Bs 
funds were debited on 15 & 16 May 2021 and this appeared on his statements as 17 May 
2021. So, I can confirm Barclays werent able to stop the money leaving his account. Im sorry to hear Mr B lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman