DRN-4034057
The complaint
Mr O complains about the advice he says he received to transfer a personal pension to a 
self-invested personal pension ('SIPP'). His transfer proceeds were invested in an 
unregulated investment scheme that has since failed. Mr O says the advice to transfer 
wasn't suitable because the proposed investment was too high risk for him. He holds 
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in our preliminary findings issued by an 
investigator on my behalf and with my instruction. Ill set out those findings and the 
background to these below. This forms part of my decision:
Mr O's previous  pension  provider,  Prudential,  sent out a transfer  pack  in May 2015.  It isn't 
clear  from the pack  who requested  it or who it was sent to. From  our experience  of similar  
cases  this was likely  to be an introducing  firm.
Mr O then opened  a Guinness  Mahon  Trust  Corporation  Limited  ('GMTC')  SIPP  on 11 June  
2015.  On 3 July 2015,  he transferred  £61,817.25  into the SIPP  from his Prudential  personal  
pension.
On 14 July 2015,  he paid an 'IFA Fee' of £618.17  to Wellington  Court-1%  of the Prudential  
pension's  transfer  value.
On 21 July 2015,  he invested  £58,355.46  from the SIPP  into a Dolphin  Capital  five-year  loan 
note.
Mr O's representative  says  that at the time of the transfer  he was employed  as a 
maintenance  engineer  earning  between  £10-40,000pa,  married,  aged  49, had no previous  
investment  experience  or investment  knowledge,  and had a low attitude  to risk and capacity  
for loss.
Wellington  Court  says  it didn't  give Mr O any advice  and he's never  been  its customer.  It says  
any paperwork  linking  Mr O to Wellington  Court  is fraudulent  and denies  that it has any 
responsibility  for the complaint.  So, the matter  was passed  to me for a decision.
What  I've decided  - and why
Whilst  I've considered  this case  on its own merits  - relevant  information  has also been  
drawn  from many  other  cases  with very similar  circumstances  against  Wellington  Court.
Wellington  Court  have  been  given  detailed  views  and decisions  outlining  our findings  and 
setting  out the evidence  we've  collated  that corroborates  our view of its role in these  cases.
Despite  this Wellington  Court  hasn't  provided  credible  explanations  for the evidence  that 
points  to it being  responsible  for the unsuitable  pension  transfers  in question  and losses  that 
flow from them.
And so, I don't  think  it is necessary  to set out all of this information  in detail  again.  Below,  is a 
summary  of the evidence  why I've concluded  that Wellington  Court  is responsible  for the 
transfer  of Mr O's pension  and the losses  that flow from it:
Wellington  Court  have  argued  the complaint  isn't within  our jurisdiction to consider.  The 
activities  in question  were  carried  on from an establishment  in the UK. Wellington  Court  is a 
regulated  business.  Mr O brought  his complaint  to us within  the relevant  time limits  and it's 
difficult  to argue  he wasn 't its customer  given  it knowing ly accepted  his 1% payment  and the 
transfer  wouldn't have  happened  if it hadn 't been  for its involvement.  With all the above  in 
mind,  I'm satisfied  that this is a complaint  I can consider.
GMTC  has provided  evidence  that Wellington  Court  was the adviser  for Mr O's SIPP. This 
includes  the SIPP  application  submitted  on Wellington  Court  headed  paper , as well as signed  
agreement  by Mr O that Wellington  Court  had provided  advice  and that a fee would  be 
payable  to Wellington  Court.
The documentation  is all signed  on behalf  of a Mr P of Wellington  Court.  The signature  is 
indecipherable , but Mr P's name  is also hand-written,  though  it was initially  spelt  incorrectly.  
You can see there' s been  a correction.
Wellington  Court  have  provided  a witness  statement  from Mr P, who says  he had only at that 
point  agreed  to provide  ad hoc transfer  advice  to GMTC  about  which  cases  had safeguarded  
or final salary  benefits  so these  could  be filtered  out. He says  he (and Wellington  Court)  didn't 
give specific  advice  to any particular  customer  (barring  three  test customers).  He says  the 
paperwork  referred  to above  wasn 't produced  by him and he and Wellington  Court  had no 
knowledge  of it. I accept  that given  the presentation  of the paperwork  above  this seems  
plausib le.
Wellington  Court  hasn 't kept any documents  relating  to its consultancy  work  with GMTC even  
though  it wasn 't a particularly  long time ago.
However,  statements  show  the SIPP  paid a fee detailed  as 'Wellington  IFA Fee' from  Mr O's 
SIPP which was in line with the 1% fee agreed  on the SIPP application.
Bank  records  show  GMTC  paid Wellington  Court  the SIPP advice  fees taken  from many  
customers  in regular  tranches  for at least  six months  and this totalled approximately £87,000. 
The payments  were  shown  to be taken  from SIPP  customers  who Wellington  Court  say 
they're  completely  unaware  of. Wellington  Court  won't  provide  its unredacted  bank  
statements  from this period  but two of the tranches  do show  on their bank  statements  - so it's 
fair to conclude  they likely  received  all this money  and potentially  more.
There  is a clear  audit  trail showing  the fees paid by the SIPP  provider  to Wellington  Court  
were  paid for advice  and not consultancy.  The fee amount  of 1% is also more  indicative  of an 
advice fee rather  than the checking  service  that Wellington  Court  argues  it provided.
The transfers  to the Orbis  SIPP appear  to have  been  initiated  by introducers  who sourced  
potential  clients  and did much  of the work  in terms  of getting clients  into a position  to transfer.  
And then in order  to progress  the transfer,  GMTC  required the involvement of an advisory  
firm. It seems  Wellington  Court  fulfilled that role.
Wellington  Court 's consu ltancy  work  shows  there  was a working  relationship  between  the 
parties  at the time. It wouldn't  be a stretch  to say that this could  have  led to Wellington  Court  
doing  other  work  on the transfers, potentially  with the minimum  of paperwork  - especially  as 
both organ isations  were  based  in the same  town  when  the transfers  were  taking place  and Mr 
P spent  time in GMTC's  offices.
The increase  in Wellington  Court 's income  over the period in question  is largely  down  to the 
fees received  from GMTC . So, it's not plausible  that it didn't notice  these  payments.  
Furthermore , Wellington  Court  have  provided  no evidence  of any consultancy  work , yet there  
is evidence  they were  paid a fee for advice  in the transfers  in question  such  as Mr O's.
Wellington  Court  has said it was a victim of fraud. It's a serious  allegation  and yet Wellington  
Court  hasn' t (based  on the available evidence)  reported  its concerns  to the appropriate  
authorities  (the police  for instance)  or even  done  much  to investigate  the matter  itself beyond  telling  us, and many  compla inants,  that it wasn 't involved . So, it's difficult  to give Wellington 
Court's allegations  too much  credence  given  its own lack of action  on the alleged  fraud.
Instead,  I think  its most  likely  that Wellington  Court  knowingly  received  a 1% advisory  fee in 
relation  to Mr O's transfer  and many  other  transfers.
It's not uncommon  for an introducer  to drive  the process  of transferring  a pension  with the 
intention  of investing  in a particular  scheme.  And introducers  often  carry  out the majority  of 
the fact-finding directly with the customer  before  involving  a regulated  adviser  to complete the 
process.  In some  instances,  customers  will not meet  with or speak  to the firm providing  the 
advice. So, I don't  think  customers  saying  they didn't  speak  to a representative  of Wellington  
Court, or they were  unaware  of its involvement,  is particularly  unusual.
In order  to proceed  with the transfer, GMTC  needed  to have  confidence  that advice  had been  
given  to Mr O. The paperwork  submitted,  such  as the covering letter  from Wellington  Court,  
confirmed  he had appointed  Wellington  Court  to provide him with advice. And GMTC's  'New  
Business  Sign Off Sheet' stated  he had been  advised  on the transfer  of his pension.  So, I 
think  the transfer  proceeded  on the basis that Wellington  Court  had advised  Mr O to do so.
There's  a lack of paperwork  to show  what, if anything,  Wellington  Court  did in return  for its 
advice fee. I don't know  if this was due to an oversight  on its part - that is, it didn't fully 
understand  what  it should have  done  given  the regulations  in place  at the time - or whether  it 
knew  its actions  were  negligent.  Either  way,  it seems  Wellington  Court's  involvement  was 
little more  than "window  dressing", providing  a veneer  of advice  to satisfy  GMTC  in return  for 
a 1% fee on a large  number  of transfers.
Questioning  GMTC's  role in what  happened  is reasonable.  But it doesn't  necessarily  follow 
from this that GMTC was acting  fraudulently  or that Wellington  Court  wasn't  involved. In order  
to perpetrate  the fraud  that Wellington  Court  has alleged, GMTC  would have  been  reliant  on 
Wellington  Court  not noticing  a series  of unsolicited,  but substantial, payments  into its bank  
account  over an extended  period  and on those  people  that transferred  (of which  there  are 
many  dozens)  not questioning Wellington Court  at any point.  I don't  think  it likely  that GMTC  
would  have  taken  its chances  in this way unless,  of course,  it had some  sort of understanding  
with Wellington  Court  - in which  case  Wellington  Court's  involvement  is still key to what  
happened.
Whatever  the extent  of Wellington  Court's  contact  with Mr O, it was still nonetheless  engaged  
in an advisory  capacity  in relation to his transfer  - and the transfer  of many  other  pensions  
too. The absence  of any of the usual  paperwork  one would  expect  from an advice  process,  
and the absence  of substantive  testimony  about  meetings  with Wellington  Court,  doesn't  
change  any of this. It just means  Wellington  Court  didn't  properly  advise  Mr O, and others, 
despite  being  paid to do so.
Furthermore,  it's also worth  noting  that victims  of scams  wouldn't  usually  receive  tens of 
thousands  of pounds  from the alleged  scammer  - and there  appears  to be little doubt  that 
Wellington  Court  did receive  these  sorts  of sums  and were  aware  of this.
As regards  the suitability  of the transfer and investments  made,  I'm satisfied  the transaction  
wasn't  suitable  for Mr O. I say this because  the investment  was non- mainstream,  high risk, 
and unregulated. Mr O doesn't appear  to have  had the degree  of investment  knowledge or risk 
appetite meaning  he would have  required  such  an investment.  I also don't  think  Mr O would  
have  needed  to transfer  his pension  to a SIPP,  given  the costs  involved  in doing  so. All things 
considered;  therefore,  I don't  think  the transfer  was suitable for him.
I think  if Mr O hadn't  been  approached  about  this investment,  he would've  remained  in his 
current  pension  arrangement  until he decided  to take his benefits.
In conclusion,  Wellington  Court  is responsible  for Mr O transferring  into an arrangement  that 
was unsuitable  for him and is responsible  for any loss that follows  from this.
In response to the above, Mr Os representatives said they accepted the findings. Wellington 
Court did not respond .What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst the findings are specific to this case, they are also in-line with the findings weve 
reached on many other similar complaints previously and I am satisfied that Wellington Court 
has had more than enough opportunity to respond. Wellington Court hasnt responded on 
each specific case rather sporadically across the various cases. And I note more recently 
and after many of the cases had already been decided, we received correspondence from a  
firm acting on behalf of Wellington Court (on this particular case but referring to all cases). 
Ive considered the points raised by the solicitor. But the points raised are not new and have 
already been addressed in our findings issued on previous cases and in the findings set out 
above in relation to Mr Os case.
As weve received no further arguments from either party, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings set out above.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing  what  would  be fair compensation,  my aim is to put Mr O as close  as 
possible  to the position  he would  probably  now be in if he had been  given  suitable  
advice.
I think  Mr O would  have  remained  with his previous  provider;  however,  I can't  be 
certain  that a value  will be obtainable  for what  the previous  policy  would  have  
been  worth.  I'm satisfied  what  I've set out below  is fair and reasonable,  taking  this 
into account  and given  Mr O's circumstances  and objectives  when  he invested.
What  should  Wellington  Court  do?
To compensate  Mr O fairly  Wellington  Court  should:
Compare  the performance  of Mr O's pension  with the notional value  if it had 
remained  with the previous  provider.  If the actual  value is greater  than the notional 
value, no compensation  is payable.  If the notional  value  is greater  than the actual 
value,  there  is a loss and compensation  is payable.
Wellington  Court  should  also add any interest  set out below  to the compensation 
payable.
If there is a loss,  Wellington  Court  should  pay into Mr O's pension  plan,  to increase  
its value  by the amount  of the compensation  and any interest.  Wellington  Courts  
payment  should  allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief.  Wellington  
Court  shouldn't  pay the compensation into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with 
any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Wellington  Court  are unable  to pay the compensation into Mr O's pension plan,  
Wellington  Court  should  pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to 
pay into the plan, it would  have  provided  a taxable  income.  Therefore  the 
compensation  should  be reduced  to notionally  allow  for any income  tax that would  
otherwise  have  been  paid.  This is an adjustment to ensure  the compensation  is a fair amount  - it isn't a payment  of tax to HMRC, so Mr O won't be able to reclaim  any of 
the reduction after compensation  is paid.
The notional  allowance  should  be calculated  using  Mr O's actual  or expected  
marginal  rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age.
It's reasonable  to assume that Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected  retirement  age, so the reduction  would  equal  20%. However, if Mr O would  
have  been  able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction  should  be applied  to 75%  
of the compensation, resulting in an overall  reduction  of 15%.
Provide  the details of the calculation to Mr O in a clear,  simple format.
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From  ("start
date")To ("end
date")Additional
interest
Orbis  SIPP Still exists  
but illiquidNotional  value
from previous  
providerDate  of 
transfer  from 
previous  
providerDate  of 
decision8% per year 
simple  on the 
loss amount  
from the date of 
acceptance  of 
the decision  to 
the date of 
settlement  for 
any time in 
excess  of 90 
days
Actual  value
This means  the actual  amount  payable  from the investment  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  any investment  in the portfolio  is illiquid  (meaning  it can't  be 
readily  sold on the open  market),  it may be difficult  to find the actual  value  of the 
portfolio. So, Wellington  Court  should  take ownership  of any illiquid  investments  
within  the portfolio  by paying  a commercial  value  acceptable  to the pension  provider.  
This amount  Wellington  Court  pay should  be included  in the actual  value  before  
compensation  is calculated.
If Wellington  Court  are unable  to purchase  the illiquid  investment  the value  of that 
investment  should  be assumed  to be nil when  arriving  at the actual  value  of the 
portfolio.  Wellington  Court  may wish to require  that Mr O provides  an undertaking  to 
pay Wellington  Court  any amount  he may receive  from that investment  in the future.  
The undertaking  must  allow  for any tax and charges  that would  be incurred  on 
drawing  the receipt  from the pension  plan.  Wellington  Court  will need  to meet  any 
costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
Notional  Value
This is the value  of Mr O's investment  had it remained  with the previous  provider  
until the end date.  Wellington  Court  should  request  that the previous  provider  
calculate  this value.
If the previous  provider  is unable  to calculate  a notional  value,  Wellington  Court  will need  to determine  a fair value  for Mr O's investment  instead,  using  this benchmark:  
For half the investment:  FTSE  UK Private  Investors  Income  Total  Return  Index;  for 
the other  half: average  rate from fixed  rate bonds.  The adjustments  above  also 
apply  to the calculation  of a fair value  using  the benchmark,  which  is then used  
instead  of the notional  value  in the calculation  of compensation.
The Orbis  SIPP  only exists  because  of illiquid  assets.  In order  for the Orbis  SIPP  to 
be closed  and further  fees that are charged  to be prevented,  those  investments  
need  to be removed.  I've set out above  how this might  be achieved  by Wellington  
Court  taking  over the portfolio,  or this is something  that Mr O can discuss  with the 
provider  directly.  But I don't  know  how long that will take.
Third  parties  are involved  and we don't  have  the power  to tell them  what  to do. If 
Wellington  Court  are unable  to purchase  the portfolio,  to provide  certainty  to all 
parties  I think  it's fair that Wellington  Court  pay Mr O an upfront  lump  sum equivalent  
to five years'  worth  of wrapper  fees (calculated  using  the fee in the previous  year to 
date).  This should  provide  a reasonable  period  for the parties  to arrange  for the 
Orbis  SIPP  to be closed.
Why  is this remedy  suitable?
I've chosen  this method  of compensation  because:
Mr O wanted  capital  growth  with a small  risk to his capital.
If the previous  provider  is unable  to calculate  a notional  value , then I consider  the 
measu re below  is appropr iate.
The average  rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone  who 
wanted  to achieve  a reasonab le return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income  Total Return index  (prior  to 1 March  2017,  
the FTSE  WMA Stock  Market  Income  total return  index)  is made  up of a range  of 
indices with different  asset  classes,  mainly  UK equities and government  bonds . It's a 
fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  to take some  risk to get a higher  return .
I consider  that Mr O's risk profile  was in between,  in the sense  that he was prepared  
to take a small level  of risk to attain  his investment  objectives . So, the 50/50 
combination  would reasonably  put Mr O into that position. It doesn't  mean  that Mr O 
would have  invested  50% of his money  in a fixed  rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of 
index  tracker  investment.  Rather , I consider  this a reasonab le compromise  that 
broadly  reflects the sort of return  Mr O could  have  obtained  from investments  suited  
to his object ive and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Wellington Court Financial Services Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Simon HollingsheadOmbudsman