DRN-1222293
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Allianz Insurance Plc have turned down their claim on their pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 13 March 2019 Mr and Mrs S submitted a claim for surgery for their dog. The claim was 
for a condition that affected the dogs left leg. Their vets costs had come to £793.68 and 
Allianz didnt meet the claim. Mr and Mrs S complained about Allianzs decision  as Allianz 
had previously met their claim for the same condition on their dogs right leg in 
December 2017.
Allianz responded to the complaint. It explained the claim was turned down because the 
policy covered conditions for 12 months from the first sign of the condition. Allianz went on to 
say the first sign of the condition in the dogs left leg was 23 August 2017, which meant 
Mr and Mrs S had until 23 August 2018 to claim. So, because theyve tried to claim outside 
the allowed time under the policy terms, it wasnt accepted. 
Allianz also said that after the 12 months were completed an exclusion was placed on their 
policy. And this should have been set out in the policy documents at the time of the renewal 
of their policy in November 2018  but Allianz didnt send this to them. Allianz realised when 
replying to the complaint it didnt tell Mr and Mrs S this. It said sorry and sent them the policy 
document. 
Allianz added that when looking through the notes from the vet it noticed in December 2017 
the vet said both legs were affected by the condition  but the vet operated on the right leg 
first as that was the worst affected. Allianz contacted Mr and Mrs Ss vets to ask why they 
didnt operate on both legs at the same time. The vet said the better leg supports the 
operated leg during the recovery. At this point Allianz re-reviewed the claim, but the medical 
history showed the operated leg had healed by February 2018  which would have allowed 
six months for the left leg to have been treated.
Mr and Mrs S told Allianz that the vet said not to do the operation, as their dog was coping 
with the other leg at the time. Allianz went back and spoke to the vet whod treated the dog, 
and they said she was coping fine with the condition at the time. But, having discussed this 
again Allianz still felt it was right to turn down the claim because it was made outside the 12-
month time limit.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs S asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so 
but having reviewed all the information felt Allianz had turned down the claim fairly and in 
line with the policy terms. And he felt Mr and Mrs S had been clearly told this in a letter dated 
8 March 2018  which Allianz told us about when sending us their file.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with this. They replied and said as we could see Allianz hadnt 
told them about the exclusion being applied because it wasnt included in the policy 
document which should have been sent in November 2018.
Our investigator felt that not telling Mr and Mrs S about the exclusion didnt change his view 
on this complaint. He said thats because the exclusion was still in the original policy 
document, and he couldnt reasonably say Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
treatment. So, he didnt think this would have affected their decision on whether to go ahead 
with the surgery or not. Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain in this case I need to consider what the policy documents say 
about whether claims would be paid in this situation. And if Im satisfied the terms say they 
wouldnt pay out, whether thats a fair and reasonable approach to take.
In Mr and Mrs Ss case the policy terms do set out Allianz wont pay for conditions first 
noticed more than 12 months ago.
Ive checked the vets notes. These show the condition was first noticed in August 2017, so 
Im satisfied Allianz are correct in saying Mr and Mrs S had until August 2018 to make a 
claim for this condition under the terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ss dog had her right leg operated on in December 2017. The vets notes do 
show that in February 2018 the right leg had healed  so it doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me for Allianz to say there was a six-month time period when the dog could have had the left 
leg operated on.
Mr and Mrs S though have said they spoke to their vet, who said because their dog was 
doing well with her left leg at this time, then surgery wasnt necessary. Allianzs 
investigations say this happened in February 2018. This makes sense, as Mr and Mrs S 
would have been discussing how the right leg had healed at this time. So, I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs S would feel unhappy at the decision to not pay the claim  as after all they 
were only following their vets advice.
But that doesnt mean the terms of the insurance policy dont apply. Mr and Mrs S didnt 
submit their claim for their dogs left leg until March 2019  over six months later than the 
policy terms allowed. And Allianz have shown it posted a letter to Mr and Mrs S in 
March 2018 about the time limits on the claim. It cant currently provide the letter, but Allianz 
sent me the text the letter contained. I can see it said Mr and Mrs S have until August 2018 
to claim for this condition  after which time it wont be covered. I think the content is clear, 
and that it makes Mr and Mrs S aware of the relevant time limits.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S didnt claim inside the 
time limits allowed under the terms, and Allianz have acted fairly in not meeting the claim.
Ive also noted Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about their renewal policy document not setting out 
the exclusion when it was sent in November 2018. But I dont think that would have had any 
bearing on the outcome of this claim because the time limit had already expired at this time, 
and I can see Allianz have said sorry for this. Im satisfied thats a fair outcome for this issue.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman