DRN-3658324
The complaint
Mrs W complains for and behalf of the estate of Mrs S that NewDay Ltd trading as 
Marbles (NewDay) was irresponsible when it provided the late Mrs S with a credit card 
and increased her credit limit on three occasions.
What happened
NewDay opened a credit card account for Mrs S in July 2015 with a credit limit of £600. 
This type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility. NewDay subsequently 
increased Mrs Ss credit limit to £800 in November 2015; £1,050 in March 2016, and 
£1,850 in July 2016. NewDay provided Mrs Ss account history and Ive summarised 
some of this information in the graph below which shows the account credit limits and 
balance.
Mrs S was charged late fees in three months of 2016 and five months of 2017, falling 
into sustained arrears in May 2017. She never managed to clear these and by February 
2018 had an account balance of £1,847. I understand the balance was sold to a third-
party debt collector in March 2018.
Mrs Ss representative, Mrs W, says that NewDay didnt carry out appropriate credit 
checks before lending to her or increasing her credit limit. She says that appropriate 
checks would have shown that the account wasnt affordable for Mrs S and that she was 
vulnerable at the time due to her health conditions and her circumstances.
NewDay says that it is an instant credit provider and most of its applications are 
completed online. This means that it doesnt require evidence of income and 
expenditure by way of bank statements, for example, but instead it uses data submitted 
by the applicant and information from their credit file. NewDay says that it therefore 
based its assessment on what Mrs S said about her income, its estimate of her 
expenditure and what it could see on her credit file. It said that Mrs S met its acceptance 
criteria. It opened her account with a £600 balance and offered her opt-outs when it 
increased her balance on three subsequent occasions.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that NewDay should have gone further 
in its affordability checks when it opened Mrs Ss account and each time it increased her 
credit limit. They concluded that, had proportionate checks been carried out from the 
outset, NewDay would have learnt that Mrs S wasnt likely to be able to repay credit 
sustainably and her circumstances didnt improve over the lifetime of the account. They 
concluded that NewDay shouldnt have opened an account for Mrs S and recommended 
that NewDay pay compensation for this.
NewDay disagreed with our investigators recommendation. The complaint came to me, 
as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional decision on 4 August 
2022 explaining why I thought Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Mrs S accepted my 
decision but NewDay did not and provided some further comments for me to take into 
consideration when making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what NewDay said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. I 
appreciate that will be very disappointing for NewDay and Ill set out again my reasons 
for doing so in this final decision and refer to NewDays response where appropriate. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, when considering this complaint I had regard to 
the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit 
handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as NewDay, need to abide by. NewDay will be 
aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I 
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, NewDay needed to check that Mrs S could afford 
to meet her repayments sustainably. In other words, it needed to check she could repay 
the credit out of her usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and 
Mrs Ss circumstances.
NewDay says it asked Mrs S about her income, estimated her expenses and included 
information from her credit file about her existing debt repayments. Mrs S told NewDay 
she was self-employed and her income was £12,000 gross (which equates to about 
£960 a month net assuming no wage deductions) and she had an existing debt of £100. 
NewDay said it checked its figures using a credit reference agency tool which considers 
current account turnover, but I dont know which bank account NewDay considered  
Mrs S had at least two at the time.
NewDay said In this case when Mrs S took out the credit card she was offered a credit 
limit of £600 on £29.70 % APR, which means that on the balance of £600, Mrs S 
would have been paying roughly about £20 a month and having reviewed her risk and 
affordability data, she was paying roughly around £20 a month and occasionally more. 
Which indicates that this was affordable for her.
NewDay provided the credit file information it relied on which showed Mrs S had two 
active accounts, a public record of a £700 debt (either bankruptcy or a county court 
judgement recorded over five years prior) and five defaulted accounts to a total of £12,900, with the last default just over three years ago.
CONC 5.3.1G(4) stated that if a lender takes income or expenditure into account it needs 
to take account of actual current income or expenditure and that it is generally not 
sufficient to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the customer. I 
appreciate that NewDay took steps to sense-check the income figure Mrs S had given and 
to estimate her expenditure but, given the amount of existing albeit older debt she had it 
doesnt seem to me that its usual estimates would be appropriate in this case. Also Ive 
borne in mind CONC 5.3.1G(8) which stated that a lender should not use the assumption 
of the amount necessary to make only the minimum payment each month and should 
consider the customers ability to repay the maximum amount of credit available under the 
agreement within a reasonable period of time.
Altogether, I dont think the checks NewDay carried out here were proportionate to the 
circumstances and it ought to have taken steps to look into Mrs Ss finances in more detail 
before lending to her. Mrs W has provided Mrs Ss bank statements for her current 
account and a savings account and Ive reviewed these to get an understanding of what 
NewDay might have found out had it carried out proportionate checks. To be clear, Im not 
suggesting this is what NewDay ought to have done but, in the absence of any other 
evidence such as payslips, benefit letters or mortgage statements for example, I think this 
information is a reasonable proxy.
Mrs Ss current account statements show that her income was approximately £660 a 
month made up of her state pension. Mrs Ss identifiable outgoings, including her 
mortgage, council tax, insurances, bills, internet and mobile and overdraft charges came 
to over £600. This doesnt include any food or petrol expenses. I dont think this leaves 
Mrs S sufficient means to pay her credit balances within a reasonable period of time, 
assuming she borrowed up to her agreed limit.
Furthermore, the management of this bank account doesnt reassure me that Mrs Ss 
money problems were historic. Mrs S had a £3,000 overdraft and didnt earn enough to 
take her out of this each month, in fact she was being charged at least £50 a month in 
interest and charges and her balance was about £2,800 at the time she took out this credit 
card. Its likely Mrs S would need to use this facility to meet repayments on any further 
credit she took out. Mrs S also had a savings account and, it seems to me, used this to 
manage her money by transferring amounts in and out of her current account. This 
savings account had a positive balance of about £100 at the time. I dont know if NewDay 
saw any of this information on its credit check but I think its likely it would have learnt this 
through a proportionate check.
Altogether, I dont think NewDay would have agreed to a credit card facility for Mrs S 
had it carried out further checks and so Ive concluded it was irresponsible to have done 
so.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs Ss finances improved over the time she held the 
account. As evidenced by the above graph, her balance kept pace with her credit limit 
increases. It wasnt likely she would be able to repay the money she borrowed within a 
reasonable period of time, given she seemed to be making minimum repayments and 
her account balance was building up. As mentioned, Mrs S missed payments on her 
account in 2016 and 2017, and her account was eventually closed.
Putting things right
NewDay said that the account offered to Mrs S was interest-bearing and that it applied 
fees and charges in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. It also said that while it could see that Mrs S was over-limit and late to make her payments from 
May 2017, this wouldnt prompt it to stop applying fees or charges. 
As Ive explained, I dont think NewDay should have offered this facility to Mrs S in the 
first place or increased her limit. Where we find credit to have been agreed 
irresponsibly, our approach to putting things right is to refund any interest, fees or 
charges associated with the credit that were paid by the borrower in order to put them 
back into the position they would have been in had the credit not been agreed.
In addition, we usually direct the lender to pay a refund of 8% per annum simple 
interest on these payments where the borrower was unfairly deprived of their money. 
Wed expect the borrower to repay the capital borrowed as they have had the use of 
these funds.
Ive concluded that NewDay was irresponsible when it offered Mrs Ss the account in 
the first place and subsequently offered her more credit in 2016 and 2017. In order to 
put Mrs S back into the position she would have been in had this not happened means 
she shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges on the account from the outset.
In summary, NewDay should:
oRework Mrs Ss account to ensure that from the opening of the account no 
interest is charged. Any late payment or over limit fees should also be removed; 
and
oApply Mrs Ss repayments to this adjusted balance; and
oIf the effect of this reworking results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance to pay, then any remaining amounts paid by Mrs S 
should be treated as overpayments and refunded along with 8% simple 
interest* on the overpayments from the date they were made until the 
date of settlement.
oIf an outstanding balance remains on the account once these 
adjustments have been made NewDay needs to ensure that Mrs S only 
owes this adjusted balance. As the debt has been sold NewDay should 
either repurchase it or liaise with the current debt owner. In this event, I 
would remind NewDay of its obligations to deal with Mrs Ss 
representative fairly and with due consideration and forbearance, which 
typically might include coming to an agreed repayment plan for any 
balance but doesnt rule out any further forbearance measures.
oRefund to Mrs S any payments shes made toward insurance premiums 
associated with this account, along with 8% simple interest* from the date they 
were made to the date of settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must provide a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if asked.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint about NewDay Ltd trading as 
Marbles and it needs to put things right as Ive proposed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman