DRN-4006455
The complaint
 Miss S complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her repair 
claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Ss car was damaged in an accident, and Advantage agreed for it to be repaired by 
their approved repairer. But Miss S said Advantage failed to arrange that, didnt give her a 
courtesy car, and generally gave her poor customer service. 
 
Advantage said theyd tried to have her car repaired by one of their repairers and they 
should have booked it in sooner, but there was a lack of garage capacity, so the delay was 
outside their control. And they couldnt give her courtesy car until her car was actually in for 
repair. They offered her a total of £220 compensation. 
Miss S said that amount didnt compensate her for the lost time, cost, and distress shed 
experienced and for Advantage not providing a courtesy car. She wanted about £6,000.
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantages compensation for the impact of the delay was reasonable and in line with our 
awards.
Miss S didnt agree and so I have been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage gave their final response to her complaint on 1st February, so I can only look at 
what happened up to then. That was over three months since her accident, but Advantage 
still hadnt allocated her car to a garage for repair. Her car was driveable and so Advantage 
didnt deem it a priority allocation to a garage, but Miss S said a mirror was taped on, shed 
had to replace a tyre at her own expense, and she didnt feel that it was safe to drive. 
She asked for a courtesy car, but they thought she had another car available, and her policy 
said Advantage would only provide a courtesy car while hers was actually in for repair. The 
policy is clear on that, and Miss S agreed to that when she took it out. Its a common clause 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont think it is unreasonable. However because in this 
case Advantage werent able to put her car in for repair within a reasonable timescale, I think 
it wasnt fair of them to rely on her having another car or to say that that it was not in their 
control. Further I can see that she offered to try to find a garage which could do the repair, 
but Advantage gave her conflicting information about whether this was possible and if theyd 
charge her more for doing that. 
She said the situation caused her stress and made her mental health worse. She wanted 
Advantage to refund her insurance for the time she was unable to use her car, compensate 
her for lost time and reimburse her for the tyre. 
As the investigator has suggested, Advantage should prioritise her cars repairs and after its 
repaired, they should reimburse her for any costs she incurred which should have been part 
of that repair. Miss S has the option of making a further complaint if Advantage fail to do this.
I can see that Advantages actions caused her inconvenience and frustration, but I do agree 
with the investigator that the level of compensation Advantage have already offered is in line 
with our published guidance for distress and inconvenience awards. And so I think it does 
adequately reflect what she experienced. For that reason, I dont require them to pay any 
more. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
