DRN-3353870
The complaint
Mr S complains Ald Automotive Limited (Ald) caused him to owe it money following the end 
of a hire agreement. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr S entered into a hire agreement with Ald for a car. The agreement was for a 
three-year term, with Mr S paying an advance payment and then payments of about £365 a 
month. The car was to be returned at the end of the agreement.
 
In 2020 Mr S applied to Ald for Covid-related support. As part of this Mr S received 
Covid-related payment deferrals for March to August 2020. This meant he didnt make 
payments during this period and would have to catch up with them later.
 
In 2021 the car was in an incident. Mr S insurer considered the car a write off. Mr S asked 
Ald for a settlement figure. Ald provided this figure and the insurer paid it. However, Mr S still 
owed Ald for the six payments hed missed in 2020.
Mr S complained. He said the settlement figure should have included the missed payments 
from 2020, and had it done, the insurer would have paid them. Ald responded to say it had 
provided the correct figure but waived one missed payment as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S asked our service for an independent review. The investigator said Ald had acted fairly 
as the settlement figure - the sum the insurer was due to pay - wasnt meant to include 
missed payments. Mr S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Had everything gone to plan, Mr S would have made the payments due until the end of the 
term and returned the car. But everything didnt go to plan. Firstly, Mr S took payment 
deferrals - meaning he had the car for six months without paying for it - and never made up 
those missed payments. And secondly, the car was then deemed a write off. 
Im satisfied Ald gave the correct settlement figure for the insurance claim. I say this because 
the agreement sets out how a settlement is calculated, and it doesnt include missed 
payments. And, looking at things more widely, I wouldnt expect it to. It was for Mr S - not the 
insurer - to pay his arrears. 
Mr S argues he could have negotiated a better settlement with the insurer had he 
understood the situation better. Ald accepted it could have been clearer about what the 
settlement figure included and waived one months missed payment as a gesture of 
goodwill. I find that fair. Ill explain why.
Generally, an insurer will settle a claim by indemnifying the insured against their loss. Here, 
it wasnt Mr S car. The loss, therefore, was the amount needed to end the finance 
agreement  which wouldnt include sums which should have already been paid. Paying said 
sums would lead to betterment. In any case, if Mr S considers the insurer should pay him 
more, thats something hell need to take up with them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman