DRN-3791719
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly withdrew a
settlement offer. Mr D also complains about the way Barclaycard treated him whilst
experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr D had a credit card with Barclaycard. In 2020 arrears accrued on Mr Ds credit card and 
he spoke with Barclaycard about his situation. Barclaycards contact notes show Mr D 
explained he was suffering with significant mental health issues and was struggling. The 
contact notes show Mr D explained he needed support and was also experiencing financial 
difficulties.
In 2021 Barclaycard carried out an income and expenditure assessment. It found Mr D 
was behind with several priority bills including utilities and his mortgage payments. But 
over the following weeks Mr D revisited his budget with Barclaycard and it agreed a 
payment plan of
£60 a month. But Mr D was ultimately unable to maintain the arrangement.
In the Autumn of 2021 Mr D contacted Barclaycard and asked about making a partial 
settlement. Mr D told Barclaycard a friend had offered to lend him some money to allow him 
to make an offer to settle. Barclaycards call handler recorded the offer on its systems.
Barclaycard then sent Mr D a letter that said it would accept £5,500 to settle.
In November 2021 Mr D spoke with Barclaycard again and explained he wanted to make 
a slightly lower offer of £4,500 as he needed to use some of the funds to pay priority bills. 
At this point, Barclaycard told Mr D its original offer had been made in error. Barclaycard 
also asked Mr D to complete further income and expenditure assessments.
Mr D complained and Barclaycard sent him a final response. Barclaycard said its call 
handler had incorrectly told Mr D it would accept £5,500. And Barclaycard said Mr D had 
subsequently informed it he was unable to make an offer at that level. Barclaycard said that 
it wouldnt expect a customer to borrow money from friends to repay an outstanding debt 
when there were primary bills outstanding. A collections hold was placed on Mr Ds account 
and he was asked to contact Barclaycards Specialist Support Team. Barclaycard offered 
Mr D £150 to apologise for what happened.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Barclaycard had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr D asked to appeal and said Barclaycards actions significantly impacted his mental 
health at an already difficult time. Mr D provided evidence from his doctor to verify what hes 
told us about his health. Mr D also said Barclaycard had applied a default to his credit file 
and unfairly closed his credit card. As Mr D didnt accept the investigators view, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above and have done so in my 
own words. I appreciate both Mr D and Barclaycard have provided detailed submissions. 
Id like to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything theyve provided when 
reaching my decision. But Im going to focus on what I feel are the key issues in this case, 
Im not going to comment on all the points raised. My approach reflects our role as an 
informal dispute resolution service and alternative to the courts.
Id like to thank Mr D for the level of candour hes given us in his submissions. I can see 
Mr D has been through a very difficult time over the last few years. And Mr D has provided 
evidence from his doctor that he has significant mental health difficulties that impact his 
day to day life. Ive taken this into account when considering what happened.
Barclaycards notes show it was aware Mr D was vulnerable due to his mental health, 
going back to 2019. And I can see Barclaycard referred Mr D to its Specialist Support 
Team which specifically works with customers whore going through a difficult time. 
Looking at Mr Ds credit card statements, Barclaycard appear to have stopped applying 
interest to the outstanding balance once it was aware of Mr Ds situation. And whilst I 
understand the severity of Mr Ds condition meant he found contact about the outstanding 
balance particularly distressing, I havent seen an unreasonable level of contact here.
Barclaycard completed a number of income and expenditure assessments with Mr D. And I 
can see the information he provided changed over time. Barclaycard went on to accept a 
payment arrangement of £60 a month. But Mr D has told us he was unable to maintain that 
level of payment. And a friend later offered to lend Mr D money to clear his Barclaycard 
balance.
Ive listened to the available call. I note that Barclaycards final response says the call 
handler shouldnt have approved the settlement offer. And Barclaycard says one of the 
reasons is that Mr D advised he was borrowing money to repay the outstanding balance. I 
think thats a reasonable point. I wouldnt expect a business to agree to settle a debt on 
the basis its customer had borrowed money from another source, even from friends or 
family. That would ultimately mean Mr D owed a different party but remain in broadly the 
same situation.
In addition, Barclaycard says the £5,500 offer (and other slightly lower offers) didnt meet 
the normal criteria it uses for assessing settlement offers. I know the call handler indicated 
the offer would be accepted and a letter was automatically sent, but Im satisfied the 
agreement was made in error. I understand Mr Ds view but I wouldnt expect either party to 
be bound by a genuine mistake. And, in this case, Im satisfied the £5,500 settlement offer 
was made in error.
I also think its fair to note that when Mr D called Barclaycard back his subsequent 
offers were lower than the £5,500 offer. In the circumstances, I havent been persuaded 
it was unfair for Barclaycard to decline.
Whilst that is the case, Im not persuaded the current offer to settle of £150 fairly reflects 
the level of distress caused to Mr D. Barclaycard was aware of the seriousness of Mr Ds 
mental health difficulties at this time. And, listening to the call where Mr D made the offer, it 
was clear he was doing so out of desperation because of the pressure he was feeling to make repayments. Mr D has told us that the removal of the settlement offer caused him a 
significant level of distress and impacted his mental health to a significant degree. I accept 
that is the case. In my view, £150 doesnt fairly reflect the way the settlement offer was 
dealt with or the level of upset caused.
So whilst I havent found grounds to tell Barclaycard to accept a settlement offer from Mr D, 
I do intend to increase the overall level of compensation awarded to take into account the 
level of distress caused to Mr D. I think a payment of £500 more fairly reflects how the 
issues raised have affected Mr D and is a reasonable way to resolve his complaint.
In response to the investigator, Mr D told us Barclaycard had unfairly closed his credit 
card and reported a default on his credit file. As this didnt form part of the investigation 
into this complaint, I cant comment on those issues as part of this decision. Our 
investigator will contact Mr D shortly and check whether he wishes to raise these issues 
as a new complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr D asked for some additional time to respond 
but didnt go on to send us new information to consider. We didnt hear back from 
Barclaycard. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me new information to consider, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ds complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as 
Barclaycard to pay Mr D a total of £500 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman