DRN-3138048
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about fees and charges that resulted from an issue relating to making 
payments to her mortgage with Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosolite Mortgages. She is 
unhappy that the problem occurred, that it took so long to resolve the situation and with the 
charges that were applied to the mortgage as a result.
What happened
Ms B took a payment holiday for May to July 2020. During this period Topaz didnt make any 
collections under the direct debit mandate (DDM), which meant it went dormant. Ms B 
informed Topaz in the middle of August 2020 that she wanted to start making payments by 
direct debit again. Topaz attempted to reinstate the direct debit mandate that had previously 
been used, and when this wasnt allowed by Ms Bs current account holding bank (B), it 
attempted on several occasions to set up a new DDM. However, B rejected the DDM 
requests as Topaz had used the same reference number (its system identification code and 
the mortgage account number) as previously used to ensure the routing of Ms Bs payment. 
B explained to Ms B that a direct debit mandate couldnt be reinstated if it had been dormant 
for two months. B also explained that its systems required a different payment reference to 
be used on each mandate, including where a new mandate was replacing an existing one. 
However, Topaz had submitted each new DDM with the same reference number, so B had 
rejected the DDMs. 
Ms B made card payments over the telephone for some months, but the last of these 
covered the October 2020 payment. Due to this, arrears built up on the account and Topaz 
wrote to Ms B asking her to contact it so that the situation could be addressed. 
Topaz responded to the complaint. It said that it had investigated the problem with the DDM 
and it was satisfied that it hadnt done anything wrong. While B had said that Topaz needed 
to change the reference number on a new mandate, it said it was unable to do that. As 
Topaz didnt consider it had done anything wrong, it said that the charges applied to the 
mortgage account were correctly charged and had been applied in line with the mortgage 
terms and conditions. 
Ms B wasnt happy with the response she received from Topaz and referred her complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He asked B why it had rejected the DDM. 
He was told that the old DDM couldnt be reinstated due to the length of time since it had 
been cancelled and that B couldnt have two DDMs on its system with the same reference 
number. Subsequently, B deleted the original mandate from its system, which allowed Topaz 
to set up a new one with the same reference number. Unfortunately, the first payment under 
the new DDM wasnt paid as B said there werent sufficient funds in Ms Bs account. 
Topaz has confirmed that the mortgage payments for November 2020 to August 2021 
inclusive were missed. It applied a monthly arrears management fee for November 2020 to 
July 2021. In addition, returned direct debit fees were applied to the account in October 2020 
and August 2021, although the one for October 2020 was reversed. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt think that Topaz was responsible for 
its attempt to reinstate and replace the DDM having failed. He was also satisfied that Topaz 
acted reasonably when trying to establish what had gone wrong. In relation to the fees and 
charges that had been applied to the mortgage, the investigator explained that a complaint 
being with this service wouldnt alter how the mortgage was administered. He was satisfied 
that the charges and fees had been applied in line with the policy terms and it had been 
reasonable for Topaz to do so, given no payments were being made and so Topaz had to do 
more to administer the mortgage account. 
Ms B didnt accept the investigators conclusion and asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman. She said that the investigator hadnt taken into account that it was a 
condition of the mortgage that it was paid by direct debit or the rules of the direct debit 
scheme as B had explained them to her. Ms B said that it was suggested many times that 
she pay the mortgage by credit card, which she said wasnt possible. She said that while 
there was a battle between Topaz and B, she was being expected to pay fees  she wouldnt 
consent to doing so. In addition, Ms B said that she thinks Topazs refusal to communicate 
with her by email was so that it could charge fees and said she hadnt known about the 
charges being applied. 
Our investigator considered Ms Bs further comments, but he didnt change his view of the 
complaint. In relation to the missed payments, he was satisfied Ms B was aware that they 
werent being paid and she had alternative options to make the payments. While he 
acknowledged the alternative methods may not have been appealing to her, she had a 
responsibility to make the mortgage payments. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly comment on the matter of the charges applied to the mortgage account. It is a 
borrowers responsibility to make the required payments to their mortgage. While it is usual 
for lenders now to require a DDM to be set up to facilitate this, where such an arrangement 
isnt in place for any reason, it remains the borrowers responsibility to make the payments by 
some other means. Where payments arent made a lender is allowed to add charges to the 
account to cover the cost of the additional administration it has to do in order to maintain the 
account. This service doesnt consider this is unreasonable for months where the contractual 
payment isnt made. 
Topaz also charged a returned direct debit fee in two months. This was again for the 
additional administration caused by the missed payment and having to attempt to reclaim it. 
The first of these fees was refunded as Ms B made a manual payment. I am not persuaded 
that Topaz acted unreasonably in the circumstances.
I know that Ms B was in a difficult position as she was abroad for much of the time in 
question, and also in light of the situation shes told us about in relation to her bank account 
with B. Whilst I understand the difficulties she had making payments, that doesnt negate the 
need for those payments to be made. 
When Ms B asked it to, Topaz attempted to reinstate the DDM to enable payments to be 
collected. It doesnt appear to have done anything wrong in this respect. While B has said 
that as it was more than two months since the DDM had been used, it couldnt be reinstated, I am not persuaded this time limit applied in the circumstances  that appears to be a time 
limit that applies to a consumer reinstating a DDM, not a business that collected payments 
under the system reinstating a DDM. 
I would also confirm that given the sensitive and confidential nature of the information 
contained in correspondence with borrowers, lenders generally dont correspond with 
borrowers by email, as its not considered to be secure. While I can appreciate that Ms B 
would have liked it to be otherwise, I cant find Topaz at fault, especially when she had 
alternative ways of discussing her account. Ms B made several telephone calls to Topaz to 
discuss her account and her concerns about the mortgage payments not being collected. 
In relation to a new DDM being set up using a different payment reference, I am again not 
persuaded that Topaz did anything wrong. It is required under the payment scheme rules for 
Topaz to have an identification reference that it uses on all of its DDMs, which in this case 
would be the part of the reference before the /. Topaz then uses the mortgage account 
number, in order to direct the payment to the mortgage account. This is not uncommon in 
the industry and I am not persuaded that Topaz was behaving unreasonably when it said it 
couldnt change the reference it was using. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Topaz did anything wrong in its handling of the 
reinstatement of payments and the management of Ms Bs mortgage account.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 
4 January 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman