DRN-3473374
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received when he made a claim on his AXA PPP
Healthcare Limited policy.
What happened
Mr Ms partner was a beneficiary of his employers group private medical insurance policy. 
In September 2020, Mr M got in touch with AXA to ask whether theyd cover treatment for a 
corneal transplantation, including the costs of locating and obtaining the donor. AXA said 
theyd need more information and explained that they dont pay for the costs of collecting or 
sourcing donor tissue including administrative charges.
Mr Ms partner explained that the treatment wasnt for him  it was for Mr M and that he 
was planning to add him to the policy. He provided more medical information and said that 
if the procedure wasnt covered there was little use in him being added to the policy. He 
queried what costs could be covered and explained that Mr M needed the procedure 
immediately as it wasnt practical to wait for treatment until November.
AXA confirmed the procedure was covered and said that Mr M would need to be enrolled 
and treatment would need to be with a recognised specialist. In the same email he was 
referred to the Fast Track Appointments team who could help find the right specialist and 
book an appointment.
Mr M was added to the policy and his pre-existing medical conditions were disregarded by
the underwriter, meaning he could claim on the policy for treatment for his eye.
Mr M says that there were a number of issues with the service he received during the time 
that he was trying to arrange treatment. That included being given the names of consultants 
who couldnt treat him or who werent recognised by AXA. There was also confusion about 
whether the anaesthetists fees would be covered in full or not. And, he was later told that 
there would be a significant shortfall in what AXA would pay towards the treatment, because 
they wouldnt pay for donor tissue from outside the UK. Mr M cancelled the policy and 
sought treatment via the NHS. Having made a complaint, he was offered £100 
compensation. Mr M was still unhappy with how hed been treated and so made a complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Ms complaint. He thought 
that AXA should pay Mr M a total of £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the customer service issues he experienced. Mr M didnt agree 
as he thought AXA should pay more compensation. AXA didnt agree and made a number 
of comments. In summary they said:
It is the responsibility of the specialist to ensure their records are accurate and up 
to date  that is a contractual requirement
They dont hold records of what specific surgery each specialist performs and 
nor should they
Verbal contact with AXA started on 28 September 2020 and concluded on 6 
October 2020  given the complexity of the situation this was a reasonable 
timescale
They had managed expectations about what information would be needed to 
assess the claim and highlighted the cost of collecting or sourcing donor tissue 
was not covered.
No treatment was delayed.
In April 2022 I issued my provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. I said: 
AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably.
AXA acknowledged that the service could have been better  they said that it was 
disappointing that at times the service fell below what theyd expect. There were 
times when Mr M had to make multiple calls and occasions where he wasnt given 
the right information. AXA also noted that there was confusion about the payment 
of the anaesthetist. They offered Mr M £100 compensation.
I think that fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M and I 
dont think AXA needs to do anything more to put things right. I say that 
because:
Prior to Mr M joining the policy AXA made him aware that they didnt cover the 
cost of collecting or sourcing donor tissue. So, Im satisfied that they reasonably 
made aware of this before he took the decision to join the scheme and make a 
claim on policy
Mr Ms contact with AXA was over a relatively short period of time. Mr M wasnt a 
member on the policy until 1 October 2020 and so wasnt a party to the contract 
of insurance until that date. Ive listened to all of the phone calls which took place 
prior to the cover coming into force on 1 October 2020. I can see that Mr M was 
in verbal contact with AXA from 28 September 2020. AXA were under no 
contractual obligation to provide Mr M with assistance at that point in time. So, I 
think they acted reasonably as they tried to assist Mr M prior to his cover coming 
into placeI appreciate that Mr M was upset and frustrated by some of the conversations he 
had with AXA about locating consultants who theyd fully cover to do the 
procedure. Its typical industry practice for insurers like AXA to provide 
consumers with a list of consultants who cover the specialism a consumer who 
needs treatment will need. Typically, they arent able to say whether the specific 
procedure required will be covered, especially if its a procedure thats more 
specialised
AXA has explained that their providers should keep their information updated 
and it relied on the available information they had on their systems. So, I think 
theyve given a reasonable explanation as to why Mr M was given the names of 
consultants that, unfortunately, were unable to help him. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr Ms frustration, I cant fairly conclude that AXA acted unreasonably when they 
provided details of consultants to Mr M who werent able to carry out the 
procedure he needed. And, in any event, I dont think it would be fair to direct 
AXA to pay Mr M compensation for any issues relating to matters before his 
cover was in place. Thats because, as Ive explained, he wasnt party to the 
contract of insurance during that time. And AXA could have declined to assist 
him prior to cover commencing on 1 October 2020
Ive also considered what happened once Mr Ms cover was in place. Mr M 
called on Friday 2 October to say that the earliest appointment available with the 
consultant was in November and it was too long to wait. Delays as a result of the 
consultants availability are not something AXA is responsible for  thats not 
something that is within AXAs control. Although Mr M commented in the calls 
that hed been waiting for two weeks I dont think thats right - his cover was only 
effective from 1 October 2020. So, I dont think there was a two-week delay as 
Mr M suggested. Mr M asked for other options during the call and AXA 
committed to providing him with further details of other consultants
Mr M called back on Monday 5 October to chase up the details. AXA explained 
this was a very specific issue and they were working on it. In further calls that 
day they explained to Mr M that they needed the procedure code. Mr M called 
back later on with the relevant information. On 6 October the claim Mr M spoke 
to AXA about the shortfall in the claim due to the donor tissue as it needed to be 
sourced from outside the UK. I appreciate that Mr M was upset and disappointed 
by the news that there would be a significant shortfall. But I do think AXA had 
reasonably managed his expectations about this prior to him joining the policy
On 7 October Mr M contacted AXA and asked to leave the plan. He expressed 
his frustration about being given the wrong information and said he wasnt happy 
with the service hed received
Taking into account Mr Ms contact with AXA was over a relatively short period 
of time, some of which was outside the time when he was actually covered by 
the policy, I think the £100 offered fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused during this period of time.
I asked Mr M and AXA to let me know if they had any further comments or information which 
might make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. AXA didnt have anything further 
to add. Mr M responded with further comments. In summary, he said: His complaint was about the numerous times AXA requested information  they 
were incompetent and didnt gather information in a systematic, coherent and 
timely manner without understanding or having any regard to his predicament 
It was reasonable to hold AXA to account for communications prior to 1 October 
2020  it contributed to the overall experience
He made enquiries about whether the procedure was covered as no one would 
take out a private medical insurance policy without ensuring it is fit for purpose 
AXA dont enforce the requirement for providers to keep their information updated 
and that specialists are fulfilling their contractual obligations
I had failed to acknowledge and state that in addition to being upset, frustrated 
and disappointed with AXA he was blind in one eye and in serious stress. £100 
didnt reflect the inconvenience, physical and mental impact on his wellbeing or 
the constant worry as to whether the sight in his right eye will return. 
So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further information and evidence from Mr M. However, having 
done so, it hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. I say 
that because: 
Ive taken into account that Mr M was asked for further information by AXA during 
the claims process. Thats standard industry practice and, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that the information AXA requested was reasonably 
necessary to validate the claim. Whilst I appreciate that this was a very difficult 
time for Mr M, and that his condition was having a significant impact on his daily 
life, I dont think the information AXA requested was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. And, as I set out in my provisional decision, AXA has already 
made an offer of £100 in relation to the failings that it identified in relation to some 
of the customer service Mr M received. I remain satisfied that this was 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case 
I understand that Mr M feels that his contact with AXA prior to 1 October 
contributed to the overall experience he had. However, as I outlined in my 
provisional decision, there was no contractual obligation on them to assist him at 
that point in time. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that they should 
pay him compensation for their attempts to assist him prior to joining the scheme  
As I explained in my provisional decision, I do think AXA highlighted to Mr M that 
there would be limitations in what aspects of the procedure they would be able to 
cover. And no insurance policy can cover every eventuality  a claim would 
always be subject to assessment and approval by an insurer. Thats standard 
industry practice. So, although Mr M made some general enquiries about whether 
the procedure would be covered, I dont think it was unreasonable that AXA 
assessed the claim in line with the policy terms once the claim was made Ive thought about what Mr M has said about AXA not enforcing the requirement 
to specialists to update their information. The procedure Mr M needed was very 
specific. Unfortunately, I think this, together with the fact that Mr M didnt want to 
use a fee limited consultant, limited the options available. And it was unfortunate 
that, from the relatively limited pool of consultants available, some of the 
information wasnt up to date. But I dont think I can fairly conclude that there was 
a systemic failure on AXAs behalf. I think theyve provided a reasonable 
explanation for what happened, and I think their offer of £100 compensation fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M  
Im sorry to hear that Mr M feels that I failed to acknowledge the impact of what 
happened on his physical and mental wellbeing. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, I listened to all of the calls provided by AXA. Having done so I have 
taken into account the impact on Mr M. In particular, in a call on 6 October Mr M 
set out in some detail the impact of his condition on him. He explained that he 
was in bed and couldnt cook or go out. He also said that his other eye was 
having to compensate and was deteriorating. This is something I have carefully 
considered when reaching my decision. However, Mr M didnt fully explain the 
impact of his condition on his wellbeing until that call on 6 October, which was the 
day before he cancelled his membership. So, I cant fairly say that AXA should 
have been aware of the impact of his condition on his day to day life until that 
date. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman