DRN-3572578
The complaint
Miss S says Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on 
her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen.
What happened
Miss S advertised her high-value car for sale in 2019. She was contacted by a couple who 
asked to see it. Shortly afterwards, they said theyd like to buy it, so Miss S took the car back 
to their address. They paid her a small cash deposit and were to transfer the rest of the 
money later. They then took the car for a test drive. On their return they drove the car onto 
their property, refused to return it and didnt pay the rest of the money. As they already had 
the cars documents, they were able to change its registered keeper. Miss S tried to get the 
car back before reporting the theft to Markerstudy in 2021. But it said the policy exclusion for 
theft by deception meant there was no cover in place. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ss complaint. He thought Markerstudy had acted 
reasonably. Miss S said she wasnt aware of the exclusion, as she hadnt received the policy 
documents from Markerstudy - but the investigator thought that was a matter for the broker 
through which shed bought the policy. He thought Miss S had voluntarily relinquished 
control of the car and the documents. He didnt agree with her that the couple were 
legitimate buyers who saw a chance to take the car - rather than people who set out to 
deceive her by pretending to be buyers (as stated in the policy exclusion). As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion says a claim wont be covered if possession of a vehicle is gained by 
deception on the part of someone pretending to be a buyer. Miss S thinks the couple who 
turned out to be thieves were genuine buyers initially. But I think its far more likely than not 
that they werent. Genuine buyers dont act in the way they did - even if presented with the 
chance to take a car without paying for it. I think they were pretending to be buyers, whilst 
having no intention of paying for the car, and were hoping for a chance to take it. 
Miss S says she didnt voluntarily give possession of the car and the documents to the 
thieves. But from the facts she gave to Markerstudys investigator, it seems Miss S willingly 
allowed them to take the car on a test drive - so she gave them complete control of it. 
According to the Markerstudy investigators report it seems the couple also had one of the 
cars keys, plus its documents, in their control. I dont think it matters whether Miss S handed 
the documents over or just left them in the glove box. Either way, it enabled one of the 
thieves to register quickly with the DVLA as the cars new keeper. 
In some circumstances, the way a deception / theft is carried out means it may be overly 
harsh for an insurer to apply an exclusion. For example, a consumer may be threatened by a 
bogus buyer who then takes their car away. If so, we may say it isnt fair and reasonable to 
rely on the exclusion. But I think Markerstudy acted fairly and reasonably in applying it here, 
as it seems Miss S took no steps to try to safeguard the car and handed it over voluntarily.
I think Miss S may have been off her guard when she agreed to allow the couple to take the 
car. From what she said to Markerstudys investigator, it seems they appeared to be affluent, 
genuine buyers. She met them at their home, where a number of prestigious cars were 
parked on the driveway, and they gave Miss S no reason to be suspicious. But I think its 
reasonable for an insurer to expect a consumer to be wary even in those circumstances - 
especially when a high-value vehicle is at risk, as in this case. Many thieves present as  
credible, and Miss S relied entirely on the honesty of two people she didnt know. 
Miss S says she wasnt aware of the policy exclusion. But theres a general duty on a 
consumer to safeguard their car - and consumers also have a duty to ensure theyve read a 
policys terms and conditions before agreeing to them. If Miss S wasnt provided with the 
policy documents by the broker at the point of sale, I think thats an issue for the broker. 
She hasnt shown that she also asked Markerstudy for the documents (such as an email 
from her to it when they didnt arrive as promised). She told us she also asked it if there were 
exclusions in the policy and that an advisor said there werent any. But theres no supporting 
evidence on this point either. 
 
I sympathise with Miss S given the position shes found herself in. Shes suffered a major 
financial loss at the hands of thieves who appear to have been devious and convincing. But 
unfortunately Miss S voluntarily handed over the car to people who were only posing as 
buyers. As she relinquished all control of it to them voluntarily, I think it was reasonable for 
Markerstudy to apply the exclusion in this case.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before
12 September 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman