DRN-3394641
The complaint
Ms R complains that G2I Limited mishandled her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to G2I, I include employees and others insofar as I hold G2I responsible for
their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from 5 June 2020, Ms R had a car insured on a policy through G2I. 
Unfortunately, her car and a third partys vehicle were involved in an accident on 14 May
2021. In early June 2021, G2I said Ms Rs car was a total loss. But G2I automatically 
renewed the policy for a further year from 5 June 2021.
Ms R contacted us on about 9 June 2021. She complained that G2I had renewed the policy
for a car that wasnt roadworthy. She also complained about the addition of breakdown cover
costing approximately £100.00 which she said she didnt want. We asked G2I to send Ms R 
a final response within eight weeks. When G2I hadnt done so, we began to investigate Ms 
Rs complaint in early September 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
G2I had treated Ms R fairly and reasonably. The investigator said that the policy wording
makes it clear that the policy will auto- renew, so she didnt think that G2I had done anything
wrong in auto- renewing Ms Rs policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms R 
and to G2I on 25 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find that G2I did anything unfair by automatically renewing the policy for the 
year from 5 June 2021, with the added extra of breakdown cover.
Subject to any further information from Ms R or from G2I, my provisional decision was to not 
uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct G2I Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Ms R hasnt responded to the provisional decision. G2I acknowledged receipt of the 
provisional decision and said it had no further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against an insurance
company or other financial firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. We are bound
by the FCAs dispute resolution rules (DISP).
Ms Rs car was made by a premium-brand car maker and first registered in 2019.
For the year from June 2020, Ms R had comprehensive cover for social domestic and
pleasure (SDP) use and commuting. She didnt have the optional extra of breakdown
cover. But she did have a protected no-claims discount (NCD). The total cost for the year
was about £775.00.
From the policy booklet, I see that the insurance company that was responsible for dealing
with claims was named in the certificate of insurance. I find that G2I was acting as an
intermediary between Ms R and that insurance company.
The policy terms included the following:
Your policy will renew automatically as long as we are still able to offer you
insurance. You will be contacted prior to the renewal date to check that your details
are still correct and current.
I would expect G2I to send out a renewal notice about a month before the date of expiry or
renewal of the policy. And Im satisfied that G2I sent out a renewal notice on 6 May 2021,
about a month before the renewal date.
G2Is records show that Ms H accessed the renewal quote on 6 May 2021 and added
breakdown cover.
As Ive said, the accident happened on 14 May 2021. The policy remained in force unless
and until it was cancelled either by Ms R or by the insurance company.
Most policies say that, if the policyholder cancels the policy after an accident and claim,
there will be no refund of premium for the remainder of that policy year.
I wouldnt expect the insurance company to cancel the policy on the grounds that the
accident had made the car unroadworthy. I would expect the insurer either to repair the car
or to treat it as a total loss.
If the insurer repaired the car, then it would return the car to the policyholder, who would
need to have insurance for it.
If the car was a total loss, I would expect an insurance company to keep the policy valid for
about a month to give the policyholder time to get a replacement vehicle and put it on the
policy. The policyholder would then get the benefit of the premium that she had already paid
for the remainder of the policy year.
The insurance company was responsible for dealing with Ms Rs claim. As G2I was an
intermediary, I dont hold it responsible for any omission by the insurance company to
provide a courtesy car.
G2Is records show that Ms R accessed the renewal quote again on 22 May 2021. I havent
seen enough evidence to show that she knew at that stage that the insurer wasnt going to
repair the car and return it to her.
It wasnt until 3 June 2021 that G2I declared Ms Rs car a total loss. And I dont share Ms Rs
view that there was enough time to stop the automatic renewal. Equally I dont think therewas much time for Ms R to make telephone calls about the renewal.
In any event, I dont find that G2I did anything unfair by automatically renewing the policy for
the year from 5 June 2021, with the added extra of breakdown cover.
Ms R had selected to pay the yearly premium in one amount. So I dont find that G2I did
anything unfair by taking the payment (of about £530.00) from her bank account.
If Ms R had asked to cancel the policy, then I would expect G2I to have actioned that
request. And the insurance company wouldve been responsible for making a refund. As it
was an intermediary, I dont hold G2I responsible for any refusal by the insurance company
to make a refund.
In any event, Ms R got a new car and she needed insurance for it. She says that the lack of
payment by the insurance company meant she couldnt afford to get a different insurance
policy. But I see that she put the new car on the renewed policy. I accept G2Is statement
that this was with effect from 18 June 2021.
I accept Ms Rs statement that G2I charged an admin fee for of £30.00. I dont find that
unfair or unreasonable for the change of vehicle on the policy.
Ms R says that she paid a further £30.00 for commuting use. But Ive seen a policy schedule
dated 2 July 2021, from which I note that she had cover for Personal business use.
Compared to the previous year (at a cost of about £775.00), Ms R also had the added extras
of breakdown cover and an upgraded courtesy car - at the reduced cost for the year of about
£546.00. Ms R hasnt provided any evidence that she couldve got a better deal through
another provider.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find that G2I treated Ms R unfairly in connection with 
the renewal of the policy. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct G2I to do any more in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct G2I Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman