DRN-3980793
The complaint
Mr W complains that Metro Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent his loss when he sent
money to one of their customers as the result of a scam.
Mr W has brought his complaint with the assistance of a representative, but for ease of
Reading, Ill mainly just refer to Mr W himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In January 2021, Mr W as sadly the victim of an investment scam. He believed he was
dealing with a well-known firm A but was in fact in contact with scammers. As a result of
this he made a payment of £85,213.85 from his own bank S to an account held with Metro
Bank.
In early February 2021 Mr W became aware of the scam and immediately reported this to S
who in turn informed Metro Bank. Ultimately Metro Bank were able to recover and return
around £56,000. But this still left Mr W with a shortfall of just under £29,000.
Mr W complained to Metro Bank who declined to provide further redress. The matter was
referred to our service and one of our Investigators recommended that the complaint should
be upheld. In summary she thought Metro Bank should have acted sooner than they did, and
this would have resulted in the prevention of Mr Ws loss. She recommended that
Metro Bank pay Mr W around £14,500 which represented Mr Ws outstanding loss but
reduced by 50% due to his contributory negligence. Mr W accepted this outcome, but
Metro Bank didnt.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
In February 2023 I issued a provisional decision, part of which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws submissions refer to the Lending Standard Boards Contingent Reimbursement
Model Code (the code). Whilst Metro Bank are signed up to the code, it isnt a consideration
in this complaint. The code requires that the payment in question is between UK based
banks. And as Mr Ws payment came from an account with S which is based outside the UK,
the code doesnt apply and cant be used as the basis to tell Metro Bank to reimburse
Mr Ws outstanding loss.
But there are other longstanding obligations on banks that are relevant considerations. And I
agree with our Investigator that Metro Bank ought to have intervened sooner than they did
and for largely the same reasons.
Our Investigator has already provided more specific detail to Metro Bank regarding the
activity on their account. But to provide a brief summary, I think the first outbound payment
that left the Metro Bank account was unusual compared to its typical activity. And had
Metro Bank acted upon this (as I think they should), they would then have noticed the
mismatch between the account holder and the intended beneficiary on the large incoming
payment from Mr W (which for all intents and purposes was A). This would have given them
cause to take appropriate action which I believe would have resulted in the discovery that
these were funds transferred as the result of a scam.
If Metro Bank had acted sooner, I think all of Mr Ws loss would have been recoverable. The
payment Mr W sent was for £85,213.85. And the amount already returned is £56,294.16
leaving an outstanding loss of £28,919.69. Our Investigator thought this should be reduced
by 50% due to Mr Ws contributory negligence. Ive considered this, but I dont agree.
Mr W was taken in by a plausible and sophisticated scam. The documentation he was
provided with looked genuine and there is also no evidence that S provided scam warnings
to Mr W about the payment at the time he was making it. I accept that Mr W is a
sophisticated individual, but nothing Ive learned about him makes me think that he
reasonably would have been aware of cloned investment firm scams at the relevant time. So
overall, I dont think, when instructing the payment, Mr W was either concerned (or
reasonably ought to have had concerns) and continued anyway. In these circumstances, I
dont think a reduction in award for contributory negligence is appropriate.
Mr W has said that the money he keeps in his account with S is specifically for the purpose
of having available funds for any investment opportunities that might arise. He says that in
November 2021 he found such an opportunity and invested through an Enterprise
Investment Scheme (EIS). And if hed recovered the money from the scam, he would have
invested more. As such, I think that Metro Bank should add interest to my proposed award.
By Mr Ws own admission, between the scam payment (in January 2021) and November
2021 his money would have remained in his account with S. So for this period I think Metro
Bank should add the applicable rate of interest for that account, which Mr W says is 0.05%.
Mr W says that a conservative estimate for the return on his November 2021 investment
would be 10%. Investments of this nature arent usually short term and where a precise
return cant be calculated, I believe 8% simple to be a fair and reasonable rate of interest to
apply. This should be calculated between the date Mr W entered into the EIS investment and
the date of settlement.
Mr W didnt respond to my provisional decision. Metro Bank provided a response which Ill 
address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence, Metro Banks response was to re-iterate their previous position. They highlighted 
that a balance must be struck between allowing genuine payments and attempting to stop 
fraud. They said they acted as soon as they reasonably could have. They dont agree that 
they ought to have acted sooner than they did and say that they couldnt reasonably have 
prevented earlier payments from leaving the account.I accept and agree that there is a balance to be found between being alert to fraud and 
facilitating genuine payments. I also accept that Metro Banks actions resulted in a not 
insignificant recovery of Mr Ws funds. But I still maintain, for the reasons previously shared, 
that this intervention ought to have come sooner. And as such, Im not persuaded to deviate 
from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Metro Bank Plc must pay Mr W £28,919.69. Interest on this amount should
be added and calculated in the following way:
0.05% interest to be calculated between the date the initial recovered funds were
returned to S and the date Mr W entered into his November 2021 EIS investment.
8% simple interest (yearly) between the date Mr W entered into his November 2021
EIS investment and the date of settlement.
If Metro Bank considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman