DRN-3797200
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) applied interest and 
charges to his credit account during times when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr M had a linked complaint against NatWest considered by the service, which resulted in 
NatWest refunding to Mr Ms account all interest and fees incurred on the account from the 
point of a credit limit increase on the account in July 2015. These reimbursements were in 
relation to any portion of Mr Ms account balance that exceeded the credit limit on the 
account as it had been before the credit limit increase in July 2015, and NatWest werent 
asked to make any reimbursements for any portion of Mr Ms account balance below the 
pre-July 2015 credit limit.
Mr M raised this complaint with NatWest as he felt all interest and charges on his account 
should be reimbursed, including in relation to the balance of his account that had been below 
the pre-July 2015 credit limit. Mr M explained this was because hed been in financial 
difficulty, and so NatWest shouldnt have applied interest or charges to his account at all. 
NatWest looked at Mr Ms complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr M in 
regard to the interest and charges that Mr M was complaining about, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr M wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt 
feel that NatWest had acted unfairly. Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The application of interest and charges form part of the contractual credit agreement which 
Mr M agreed to when opening the account. So, Im satisfied that its fair for NatWest to have 
applied such interest and charges, unless NatWest were made aware of specific temporary 
circumstances by Mr M whereby it was reasonable for NatWest to have suspended the 
accrual of interest and charges on the account for an agreed temporary period. 
I emphasise that any periods where interest and charges might not have been charged 
should have been temporary. This is because if Mr M wasnt able to meet the contractual 
terms of the credit agreement on a long term basis, even if this were due to a prolonged 
period of financial difficulty, then the appropriate course of action would have been for 
NatWest to have defaulted Mr Ms account. This is because by not being able to meet the 
contractual terms for a long period, Mr M would have been defaulting on that agreement.
It also must be noted that even where a credit account holder has advised a credit provider 
that theyre experiencing temporary financial difficulty, it doesnt necessarily follow from this 
that the credit provider should stop the accrual of interest and charges at that time. This is 
because a credit provider is required to provide such credit account holders with appropriate 
forbearance which, depending on an assessment of a credit account holders circumstances, 
may or may not reasonably include the temporary stopping of interest and charges.
After reviewing all the information available to me in regard to this complaint, I havent seen 
anything which makes me feel that Mr M was charged interest and charges on his account 
unfairly here. I say this because, while there is evidence of Mr M speaking with NatWest 
about his financial circumstances in 2013, 2014, and 2015, on all occasions Mr M informed 
NatWest that there were specific reasons for the issues hed encountered  such as his 
being away for Christmas, or his forgetting to make a payment to the account  and Mr M 
also declined to conduct an income and expenditure assessment with NatWest so that they 
could gain a better understanding of his financial position  which would be reasonably 
required, if Mr M wanted with any form of temporary financial assistance at those times.
From 2016 onwards, NatWest held several discussions with Mr M about his financial position 
which included assessments of his income expenditure. NatWest agreed a series of short-
term repayment plans with Mr M during this time. Some of these plans involved reduced 
repayment amounts, with account charges being frozen but with account interest continuing 
to accrue, while another plan involved the stopping of all interest and charges as well as the 
acceptance of a reduced monthly payment for an agreed time. 
NatWests actions here seem reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that they did provide 
appropriate forbearance to help Mr M recover his financial position during these times. And I 
dont feel that NatWest should fairly or reasonably have been obliged to have provided any 
further forbearance to Mr M, or that NatWest shouldnt have charged interest on Mr Ms 
account at all, as Mr M suggests, for the reasons explained above.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take 
any further action here. I realise this might not be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I trust 
hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman