DRN-2500172
The complaint
Mr P has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Green Flag damaged his 
car when attending to it after he claimed on his breakdown cover policy. 
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P had an issue with his cars windscreen washer mechanism. He called UKI which sent 
out a technician who fixed the car. Around three weeks later Mr P noticed some damage to 
his cars rear side passenger door area, which he thought UKIs technician had caused. He 
complained.
UKI said its technician had been working at the front of the car and under the bonnet and 
had no need to go near the rear passenger door area. So it didn't believe it had done any 
damage to Mr Ps car.
Mr P brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't 
think UKI had done anything wrong. Mr P didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr P said that UKI damaged the rear passenger side of his car when working to fix the 
windscreen washer issue. UKI said its technician was working at the front of the car and 
near the bonnet and had no reason to go near the rear passenger side. Mr Ps suggested 
that the technician damaged the car while either removing a jack from under the car or when 
dragging the jack passed it. Mr P has acknowledged that he didn't notice any damage at the 
time of the repair, and only saw it some weeks later when he took his car out again. The car 
was kept in his garage in the meantime. 
UKI told us that its technician didn't use a jack on the car, so couldn't have damaged it in the 
way Mr P alleges. And I find that evidence persuasive. I think its unlikely that a technician 
would need to jack the car up in order to fix the windscreen washer mechanism. But, even if 
thats not the case and UKIs technician did use a jack, it's clear from Mr Ps own comments  
that he doesn't know how the damage happened. He thinks it might have been caused by a 
jack but he doesn't have any evidence of that, beyond his own speculation about what 
happened. So there's no actual evidence that UKI damaged Mr Ps car.
I understand Mr P hadn't used his car between the day UKI fixed it and the day he noticed 
the damage. So he thinks it must have happened when UKI fixed the car. But, it seems 
entirely plausible that the damage could have happened at some other time. I understand 
that  on the day he noticed it Mr Ps car was parked on the road, with the passenger side 
next to the kerb. So it's possible that a pedestrian walking past while pushing a trolley or 
dragging something, a cyclist, a skateboarder, or some other object could have caused the 
damage to Mr Ps car.
As Ive said above Ive seen no evidence, beyond Mr Ps speculation, that UKI damaged 
Mr Ps car. And I find UKIs evidence that it wasn't working in the area of the damage and 
that it didnt use a jack persuasive. So, on balance I'm satisfied that it didn't damage Mr Ps 
car. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman