DRN-2344775
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Leasing Options Limited mis-sold him a maintenance plan with his 
leased vehicle. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. Ill summarise the background and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr Y secured a credit line and placed a vehicle order in February 2019 for a leased 
car as part of a non-maintained agreement.
In March 2019, he enquired about purchasing a maintenance plan which Leasing 
Options said would include a number of items including: all Manufacturers scheduled 
servicing in addition to any routine and unexpected maintenance issues; mechanical 
and electric repairs; unlimited tyre replacements; breakdown and recovery for the full 
term and courtesy car upon request. 
Mr Y took his car for some warranty work in August 2019 and is unhappy as he had 
to pay for a courtesy car which he believed was included as part of his maintenance 
plan. Hes also unhappy as he says he was mis-advised about how often the car 
would need to be serviced which he suggests impacted his decision around the 
maintenance package. He was told it required servicing every 10,000 miles or every 
year, rather than every 20,000 or two years as it actually turned out to be. 
Leasing Options didnt think the courtesy car is what induced Mr Y into purchasing 
the optional maintenance plan. And it said that the servicing could be amended in 
line with Mr Ys preference. It also questioned whether the maintenance plan was a 
regulated product and something our service could consider.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He was satisfied the maintenance plan 
should be considered an insurance contract on the basis of Perimeter Guidance 
Rules (PERG) 6.3.4 and 6.6.7. He said the roadside repair or recovery aspect of 
the maintenance plan should be treated as insurance and that any insurance 
obligation in the contract means the entire contract should be treated as an insurance 
contract. So he concluded this complaint was one our service could consider.
Our investigator felt that there was misleading information about the courtesy car, as 
it did appear to be included. But he didnt think this wouldve affected Mr Ys decision 
to take out the maintenance plan. He also noted that the servicing intervals for the 
vehicle appear had been, or at least could be, adjusted in line with what Mr Y had 
previously been told. So he didnt think Leasing Options needed to do anything 
further. 
Mr Y disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im satisfied that the maintenance plan should be treated as a contract of insurance 
for the reasons our investigator provided; namely that Mr Y made payments in return 
for a benefit (roadside repairs or recovery) in response to a defined event that is 
uncertain (a breakdown) and adverse to the interests of Mr Y. So the whole contract 
became an insurance contract.
I conclude that Leasing Options made an error in the way it presented the optional 
courtesy car cover; the wording strongly indicates this would automatically be 
included as part of the maintenance plan. But I also agree with the investigator that 
the inclusion or exclusion of this wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Ys decision 
to take out the maintenance plan. 
I say this because Mr Y explained in an email that he was interested in the plan 
because it can be expensive when something needs replacing. He also stated my 
main reason for taking this would be the convenience of the tyres and servicing. So 
while hes told us it would have made a difference to his decision to purchase the 
maintenance plan, his words and actions at the time suggest otherwise. And the 
costs incurred by Mr Y for the courtesy car he needed were relatively low (£20) when 
compared with the potential costs of replacing car parts, tyre replacement etc. Im 
satisfied that the plan, without the courtesy car, offered what Mr Y said he was 
looking for at the time. 
I can also see that theres been some confusion around the servicing intervals 
required for this vehicle. But it appears that this can be adjusted in line with what 
Mr Y was originally told (and what also seems to be his preference) though this 
adjustment isnt something that Leasing Options is able to amend. But, while not at 
the intervals Mr Y had been told, the maintenance plan did still cover the required 
services. And, as Ive already concluded, the main reason Mr Y bought the 
maintenance plan was to minimise the expense of replacing parts and for 
convenience. 
For these reasons, I dont think Mr Y wouldve changed his mind about purchasing the 
maintenance plan even if all of the correct information had been presented to him at the 
time. And, because of this, I wont be asking Leasing Options to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Leasing Options Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman