DRN-3822206
The complaint
Mr O complains Think Money Limited (TML) restricted his account and withheld money 
held in it. Mr O says this caused him inconvenience. 
What happened
In early October 2021, following an internal review, TML restricted Mr Os access to funds in 
his account. Unhappy with this Mr O complained. 
In summary TML said the following in its final response: 
- It is not able to let Mr O transact on £8,660 which had previously been paid into his 
account 
- The funds were made accessible to Mr O on 23 November 2021
- As per its terms, all payments made into Mr Os TML account are subject to its 
compliance procedures, and security and risk checks. This may result in TML 
holding, delaying, or refusing to accept a transaction
- TML couldnt give any more information about this 
- TML made no error in restricting Mr Os access to these funds  and it did not breach 
its regulatory or contractual obligations by doing so 
- TML could have made the funds available to Mr O slightly sooner than it did. TML 
was sorry about this and any further stress it may have caused Mr O
In separate correspondence, dated the same day as its final response, TML notified Mr O it 
would close his account ten days from the date of the letter. 
Mr O referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it. In 
summary they found: 
- TML did nothing wrong when reviewing and blocking the account
- TML acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account when 
deciding to close it   
- TMLs review was delayed unduly by approximately 15 days  which TML 
acknowledged. They noted that TML said this wasnt Mr Os main account, but given 
he had to borrow money from friends and family, this would have inconvenienced him 
and caused embarrassment. So, they recommended TML pay Mr O £100 
compensation
TML did not agree with our Investigator. In short, it said our Investigators suggestion for it to 
pay Mr O compensation for the inconvenience and embarrassment it caused was 
inconsistent with similar cases this service has dealt with. 
TML said it had not given Mr O any timescales, and that it had acted within its own internal 
ones. So even if Mr O needed to borrow funds, that would always have been the case even 
if it gave him access to his funds sooner. 
TML also said, in broad terms, that the delay was warranted as it had reasons to extend its 
internal review. 
TML also elaborated that Mr Os account wasnt used for everyday spending, and when the 
funds were withheld, all account activity stopped. So this indicated Mr O had access to funds 
elsewhere  and it wouldnt therefore be appropriate to compensate him. TML also sent our 
Investigator an excerpt of another Ombudsmans decision which it says shows their 
recommendation for it to pay compensation is inconsistent.  
Our Investigator did not agree. In their response, they said TML had acknowledged in its 
final response, and submission to this service, that it had caused avoidable delay. Nor had 
TML given any information to show its review warranted more time which negated the delay. 
They also pointed out that the decision they had quoted says the Ombudsman had made 
their decision based on the individual circumstances of that case. And that is what they did 
when looking into Mr Os complaint. 
As TML have not agreed, this complaint has now been passed to me  an Ombudsman  to 
decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Financial business in the UK, like TML, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having carefully considered TMLs reasons for reviewing, and then restricting Mr Os access 
to funds held in the account, Im satisfied its acted in line with the obligations it must follow. 
That means it hasnt done anything wrong by doing this. 
TML is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before TML closes an account, it must do so in a way which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which TML and Mr O had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances it 
can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Having looked at the information given to me by TML, Im satisfied it was entitled to close the 
account in the way that it has done. I know Mr O would like more substantive reasons for 
why TML placed restrictions on his account and, most likely, why it closed it too. But neither 
TML, nor I, are under any obligation, that Im aware of, to do so. 
The crux of why this complaint was referred to me for decision is whether I think TML should 
pay Mr O any compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused. TML argue its delay is justifiable given the chain of events it explained to this service, which 
meant it had to carry our further due diligence in its review. But this runs in stark 
contradiction to what it said both in its final response and initial submission to this service. 
Given the initial position is more contemporaneous than the latter, Im putting more weight 
on its answer in the final response. So I do think it caused avoidable delay of around two 
weeks. In turn Mr O was left without his funds for much longer than he should have. 
TML assert Mr O did not use this account for everyday requirements  and that its highly 
likely he had funds elsewhere. Having looked at Mr Os statements, and the activity on there, 
Im persuaded thats most likely the case. 
But given the value of the funds, Im satisfied that being deprived of them would have 
caused Mr O inconvenience and distress. At the time of the restriction, Mr O told us he 
couldnt meet his basic living needs and had to borrow money to pay his rent. Given the 
restriction applied lasted a little less than two months, Im persuaded the two weeks delay 
would have made a difference to Mr O.
It follows that Mr O should be compensated for the inconvenience of having to borrow 
money from friends and family. Its also highly probable that having to ask for money in this 
way caused some embarrassment to him. Lastly, having your account restricted in this way 
would cause some level of distress to an individual. TMLs delay meant Mr O had to suffer 
this for longer than he needed to. 
Next, Ive considered if £100 is a fair award. On balance, I think it is. I say that because Mr O 
hasnt given any more information about the impact this matter had on him  and he has had 
opportunity enough to do so. 
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, our Investigator is right to say this service 
considers complaints on their individual merits and circumstance. I must, as Ive already 
said, consider all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of a complaint. That is what I have done here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, 
Think Money Limited must pay Mr O £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2022. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman