DRN-2347544
The complaint
Mr B is complaining Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has declined a claim he made 
for the theft of his motorcycle on his motorcycle insurance policy.  
Mr B has been represented by a representative in this complaint. But, for ease of reference, I 
shall refer to anything the representative has provided as being provided by Mr B. 
What happened
Mr Bs motorcycle was stolen so he claimed for the loss on his motorcycle insurance policy. 
Markerstudy declined his claim because it said the motorcycle was parked outside his place 
of work. But it said the policy only covered social, domestic and pleasure (SDP) and didnt 
cover commuting  i.e. for when Mr B drove to and from a place of work.
Mr B didnt think Markerstudys decision was fair. He disputed hed applied for the insurance 
policy online and was adamant it was done on the telephone. And he said he wasnt given 
an option to include commuting. He said its widely considered SDP includes commuting. He 
thinks Markerstudy should have made it clearer he wasnt covered for commuting.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2020 upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
I do not dispute that, under the strict interpretation of the policy, Mr B isnt covered for the 
theft of his motorcycle. But I have to think about whether this is fair and reasonable. 
Markerstudy sets out this is simply a matter that Mr B chose to only have SDP cover and 
didnt choose to be covered for driving to and from work. So it says the insurance policy 
wasnt covering him at the time of the theft. However, I think this matter is in actual fact a 
question of whether Mr B misrepresented how he used his motorcycle. So I think the key 
question I have to think about here is whether the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies in this case. I think it does and Ill now explain 
why.
CIDRA says its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer if it asks a question about facts relevant to the proposed risk 
its covering. If a consumer doesnt take reasonable care and misrepresents something 
which affects whether the insurer wouldve offered the policy or its terms and conditions, its 
known as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Markerstudy doesnt think it asked Mr B a question about facts relevant to the proposed risk. 
It says it asked him to decide what level of cover he wanted. But I dont agree. Mr B was 
initially asked when he first applied for the policy what the motorcycles usage was. And he 
was given three different options.
I also note that the proposal form Markerstudy sent Mr B at renewal asks nature of this 
drivers use of the vehicle? I think the way someone uses a motorcycle is clearly relevant to 
the proposed risk Mr B was asking Markerstudy to cover. 
I appreciate that it may have been Markerstudys intention to ask Mr B to choose the type of 
cover he wanted. But Mr B wasnt asked to choose a level of cover but he was asked a 
question on two separate occasions  at initial application and again at renewal  about how 
he used his car. I think this is different to choosing a level of cover and is worded in a way to 
get a material fact. So I think CIDRA does apply in the specific facts of this case. 
Ive now thought about what CIDRA says in these circumstances. CIDRA requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if 
a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation 
is  what CIDRA describes  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms 
or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
Ive looked at the online application Mr B initially completed and he was clearly given an 
option to include commuting. There was also an explanation option if he wasnt sure what 
this meant. But he said he didnt use the motorcycle for commuting. So Im satisfied he gave 
incorrect information at the initial application. I dont think he did this deliberately  it seems 
to have been a simple mistake  but CIDRA would consider this to be a careless 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out what an insurer can do where the misrepresentation was careless:
It can cancel the policy back to the beginning if it wouldnt have offered insurance had it 
known all the facts, but it has to return the premium paid;
If the insurer can show that it wouldve entered into the policy on different terms then it 
can apply those terms;
If theres an existing claim  like in Mr Cs case  and the insurer can show that it 
wouldve charged a higher premium it can proportionately reduce the claim, i.e. if the 
policyholder only paid 50% of the correct premium, he only gets 50% of the amount 
claimed.
Ive seen Markerstudys underwriting criteria and Im satisfied it would have insured Mr B had 
he said he intended to use the motorcycle for commuting, but it would have charged more. 
Im conscious that the terms of the policy Mr B took out didnt cover him for commuting. But 
Im also conscious CIDRA sets out:
Careless misrepresentationsclaims. 
6. If the insurer would have entered into the consumer insurance contract, but on different 
terms (excluding terms relating to the premium), the contract is to be treated as if it had 
been entered into on those different terms If the insurer so requires.
Essentially, where we find a misrepresentation to be careless, we will look at what the terms 
of the policy would've been had the correct information been given - i.e. if Mr B had said he 
used the motorcycle to go to and from work. And, had he done that, the policy would have 
covered him for commuting  i.e. he would have been covered for the theft  albeit at a 
higher premium.That said, Im also conscious Markerstudy has raised concerns about the where Mr B kept 
the motorcycle overnight. And it hasnt investigated this issue yet. I think its entitled to 
investigate this issue before deciding on how to settle the claim. 
So I intend to say Markerstudy should reconsider this claim on the basis that Mr B carelessly 
misrepresented how he used the motorcycle and, if it considers the claim should be settled 
taking into consideration the other issues raised, it should settle this claim in line with the 
remedies set out under CIDRA.
While Im not directing Markerstudy to settle the claim, but reconsider it, I do think its 
handling of this claim has caused Mr B some unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So I 
think it should also pay him £150 in compensation for this. 
Markerstudy didnt accept my provisional decision as it maintained it should have the right to 
decline the claim because it fell outside of the level of cover specified on the policy. It said 
Mr B had asked for cover for SDP purposes only, but the claim then occurred while he was 
using the bike outside of this coverage. 
Markerstudy referred to the help box on the online application which it said set out that the 
consumer was selecting a level of cover, rather than this being a question about how they 
would typically use the vehicle or similar.
It maintained that, as Mr B was actively selecting the level of cover, its distinct from a 
misrepresentation issue such as the misrepresentation of overnight location that also 
occurred in this case where Mr B was asked Where is the vehicle normally kept at night? 
Markerstudy considered this to be similar to where a consumer chooses to have driving 
other cars cover on their policy. However, if they choose to not take this and did drive 
another car, they simply wouldnt be covered to drive that car rather than it being classed as 
a misrepresentation.
Mr B maintains that the policy in question wasnt taken out online. And he said he wasnt 
offered a choice of usage categories and in particular, he wasnt told that the SDP category 
would exclude everyday local commuting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything both parties have provided in response to my provisional 
decision. But Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Im satisfied Mr B initially took the policy out online and its fair to consider the online 
application he undertook. Markerstudy has said the explanation box makes it clear that Mr B 
was choosing a level of cover. But I dont agree. The explanation box gives a description of 
which option to select means. But it doesnt say hes choosing a level of cover. Im satisfied 
my provisional decision sets out clearly why I think the way the application is worded is done 
in a way to find out a material fact as opposed to asking what level of cover would you like.
I think there is a clear distinction between asking whether a consumer wants a specific level 
of cover (such as asking if they wish to have driving other car cover) and how a vehicle is 
used. I think its fair to say the first option is worded in a way to choose a level of cover and 
the second is worded in a way to ask for a material fact pertinent to the risk Markerstudy was 
being asked to insure.So, taking everything into account, I still think the remedy I set out in my provisional decision 
is fair. And Markerstudy hasnt given me anything to make me think my provisional decision 
is unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to reconsider this claim on the basis that 
Mr B carelessly misrepresented how he used the motorcycle and, if it considers the claim 
should be settled taking into consideration the other issues raised, it should settle this claim 
in line with the remedies set out under CIDRA. It should also pay him £150 in compensation 
for this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman