DRN-3398462
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company declined 
a claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
In late February 2020 Miss B booked a holiday abroad. She was due to travel in April 2020. 
On 5 March 2020 Miss B took out a travel insurance policy. On 9 March 2020 the 
government of the country she was due to visit imposed a national lockdown and the next 
day the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but 
essential travel to the country they were due to visit. Then, on 11 March 2020, the 
World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global pandemic. On 23 March 
2020 the UK government imposed a lockdown. The FCDO advice remained in place up until 
Miss Bs planned departure date. 
Miss Bs airline refunded her flights, but she was unable to recover the cost of the 
accommodation from the provider. So, she made a claim on her travel insurance policy. In 
their final response letter Chaucer accepted that Miss B had cancelled due to a change in 
FCDO advice. But the claim was declined on the basis that there was no cover under the 
policy for such circumstances. Unhappy, Miss B complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She thought that 
the complaint should be upheld as the policy terms didnt make it clear that there was no 
cover for cancellation if the FCDO advised against all but essential travel.  
Chaucer didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said: 
The policy cover specified perils  the reason Miss B cancelled wasnt one of those 
listed and therefore there is no cover under the policy 
The investigator was retrospectively reinterpreting what Miss B intended to buy  the 
policy did offer cover in certain circumstances and Miss B could have purchased a 
policy which offered cover for cancelling a holiday due to a change in FCDO advice 
It sets a dangerous precedent for the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
retrospectively rewrite contracts based on a spurious notion that consumers shouldnt 
be expected to know what their policy covers 
The premium charged reflects the level of cover under the policy 
The policy terms form the contract of insurance. It is not superseded or overridden by 
the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). 
So, I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page 1 it says:
 What is not insured? 
Travelling to a country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO 
have advised against all (but essential) travel. 
Page 20 of the policy sets out the circumstances under which Chaucer provides cover for 
cancellation or curtailment. These are:
 The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) You
b) any person who you are travelling with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
 You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders of
a treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service 
attendance.
 Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies for
payment under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of
booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made
redundant).
 You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed
Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave
cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation
or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip, which occurred or
became apparent within 5 days prior to the commencement of your trip or during
the course of your trip.
 The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm,
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or 
theft.
In the general exclusions, on page 11, it says there is no cover for: Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Officer where you have travelled to a specific country or to an area 
where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have 
advised against all (but essential) travel.  
Was it unreasonable for Chaucer to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation and curtailment section of the policy because: 
Miss B cancelled her trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel 
to the destination she was due to travel to. Chaucer accepted in their final response 
letter that was the reason for the cancellation of the trip. Thats not something that is 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed 
insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, 
I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
case for the reasons Ill go on to explain 
The exclusions Ive outlined above mean that if Miss B had travelled abroad shed 
have not followed FCDO advice. So, she wouldnt have been covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in 
FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made 
sufficiently clear to Miss B   
Miss B would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. Shed 
have needed to cross refer between the different sections of the policy in order to 
understand that she wasnt covered by the policy 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Miss B 
and Chaucer. I think its unlikely that Miss B would have purchased the policy if she 
had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed 
after shed bought the policy. As our investigator explained in March 2020, when 
Miss B purchased the policy, policies which offered cover in such circumstances 
were widely available. And I think it is most likely that Miss B would have purchased 
alternative cover had she realised that the policy didnt offer her cover due to a 
change in FCDO advice Ive considered what Chaucer has said about the IPID. Im not suggesting that, in the 
circumstances of this case, the IPID overrides the contract of insurance. However, it 
is a relevant document when considering what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. I say that because the IPID didnt make it clear or 
prominent that cancellation claims due to a change in FCDO advice werent covered. 
The IPID only refers to the general exclusion which says that policy holders wont be 
covered if they travel against FCDO advice. And, in any event, Im also satisfied that 
this also wasnt clear from the policy terms and conditions for the reasons Ive 
outlined above
Ive taken into account what Chaucer has said about Miss B needing to read the full 
policy terms and conditions. But, even if shed read the full policy terms, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think it wouldve reasonably been clear to Miss B that 
there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after shed 
bought the policy but before she went on holiday.
Chaucer has also said that this decision sets a precedent and that it isnt fair and 
reasonable for me to create a complete protection policy. Ive also taken into 
account what theyve said about how the policy was priced. However, Ive considered 
the individual circumstances of this complaint and the particular terms and conditions 
of this policy. Ive also taken into account the relevant law and industry guidelines. 
Having done so Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to uphold Miss Bs 
complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.    
Putting things right
Im directing Chaucer to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the 
policy. Chaucer should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Bs complaint against Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity 
Company and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman