DRN-1778522
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
allowed her to increase her loan to a point where she could only afford to repay the interest.
What happened
Miss C approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in August 2017. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing.
Miss C was initially given a facility with a £200 credit limit in August 2017. Her limit was
increased on 10 occasions with her final increase taking her credit limit to £850
in February 2019. The most recent correspondence from SNC shows there is an outstanding 
balance of around £1,153.87 as of November 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Cs complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried 
out before granting this facility were proportionate. And that the information SNC gathered 
about Miss Cs circumstances suggested she would be able to afford the repayments she 
was committed to making.
But due to the way Miss C used the facility, our adjudicator thought SNC should have 
stopped allowing her to continue using it from 11 August 2018.
It appears that Miss C agreed with our adjudicators opinion. SNC disagreed and provided 
the following points:
SNCs product works in much the same way as a credit card and, like a credit card, 
the important factor is not the number of individual uses (in this case drawdowns) but 
the outstanding balance, which did not exceed £1,122.
SNC also made some points about the cost of the facility. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
To begin with, Miss C seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt wrong to
approve her running credit facility. For the avoidance of any doubt, I also dont think SNC 
was wrong to have initially granted her facility. So, this decision will instead focus on whether 
SNC did enough to monitor Miss Cs facility whilst she held it and whether there was a point 
which SNC shouldve halted any further borrowing on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think it was 
wrong for it to have allowed Miss C to continue to draw down on the account from
11 August 2018. This is because I think the way she was using the account indicated she 
wasnt using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think this is the case.
Firstly, under the provisions outlined in CONC (6.7.2)  which is the relevant regulation at 
the time SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Miss Cs use of the facility and 
provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial difficulty. In 
addition to this, SNC had a fairly good indication of Miss Cs actual financial position, 
because throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank 
account.
In any event, I dont think it was unreasonable of SNC to have believed that Miss C would 
repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time when the facility was first
granted. And I think that this would have resulted in monthly repayments of around £20 
given a credit limit of £200. After all, this is what was expected, and the way this facility was
designed. But if Miss C wasnt using the facility as intended, this could indicate to SNC that 
she was having wider financial problems.
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Miss C to continue to drawdown, Ive
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of
those payments, and then when Miss C returned for further borrowing. After all, if Miss C 
was drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this 
ought to have indicated that it taking the full payment from Miss Cs account was causing her 
to once again borrow the funds that SNC had just taken.
As soon as Miss C received her salary (every four weeks) she was clearing her balance in 
full. But within a few weeks, sometimes within a couple of days, she had requested further 
funds, mainly drawing up to her credit limit. 
Miss C didnt appear to borrow from SNC from 2 December 2017 until 19 March 2018. I can 
also see she didnt make any repayments in December 2017 and January 2018 although 
she had an outstanding balance at the time. Whilst I have limited information about this, as 
Miss C didnt make her repayments in-line with what she owed, I think this is something 
which should have put SNC on notice for any potential repayment difficulties she may have 
had. 
When Miss C started borrowing again from 19 March 2018, she continued to use her 
account in the same manner as she had before she stopped drawing down in December 
2017. And the way she drew down on her facility and repaid what she owed in full suggested 
she was using her account in order to drawdown a series of payday loans. As Ive said when 
SNC approved her facility, it was entitled to believe that Miss C would repay what she owed 
over a reasonable period of time. But as time went on, it was clear this was not happening.Looking at Miss Cs circumstances in the three months leading up to August 2018, when 
Miss C received another credit limit increase, SNC would have seen that her monthly income 
fluctuated each month. She received £1,569 in May 2018, £991 in June 2018 and £1,150 in 
July 2018. There was a significant decrease in her income for June and July 2018 compared 
to the income she had received since the start of the borrowing relationship. When we asked 
Miss C for further information about this, she confirmed her income fluctuated due to wage 
arrestment. It appears that even after 11 August 2018 (the point I am considering), she 
continued to receive less income compared to what she received at the start of the 
borrowing relationship.
I can see Miss C had outgoings averaging £1,020 in these three months which consisted of 
payments for rent, food, travel, mobile phone contracts, and a TV subscription. Her total 
outgoings were for similar amounts compared to the income she received in June and July 
2018. So, I think the facility was unsustainable and unaffordable for her. 
Each month I can see there were a number of bank transfers to and from another account in 
the name of Miss C. These credits ranged from £306 to £864 between May - July 2018. It 
appears she received more incoming from this other account, compared to what she paid 
back. I think SNC should have asked further questions about Miss Cs circumstances in 
order to find out what these extra payments into the account were for. After all, SNC was 
already aware of Miss Cs regular salary and, ultimately, these repayments made a 
significant difference to her income and therefore, whether the facility was affordable and 
sustainable for her.  
When we asked Miss C for further information about these transfers, she confirmed she had 
a joint account with her partner, who would transfer money to her in order to help cover food 
shopping and bills. I dont find what Miss C told us unreasonable. Ultimately, the contribution 
she received from her partner fluctuated and wasnt a regular amount. This leads me to 
conclude that Miss C was unable to afford her repayments without receiving help from her 
partner.
I think there was clear evidence that the facility had become unsustainable as well as 
unaffordable for Miss C. And her use of the facility was likely to cause a knock-on effect for 
the following months  further demonstrated by Miss Cs need to continue borrowing from 
SNC on a monthly basis for a further nine months. 
Ive thought about what SNC says about the cost of the facility  that being the interest rate 
is 0.8% per day   the maximum amount that payday lenders are entitled to charge. But, I 
think its important to note that high-cost short-term credit providers are only entitled to 
charge these amounts for short-term periods rather than a reasonable period of time. I 
accept that SNCs terms and conditions meant that it could only charge this rate for a 
maximum period of 40 days. But I dont think that this helped Miss C because of the way that 
SNC was collecting payments from her. As Ive explained, Miss C was repaying her account 
in full every month which meant she wasnt receiving the benefit of paying what she owed 
over a longer period of time.
I can see that SNC recognised that it shouldnt have continued to lend to Miss C from 9 
February 2019 as it noted her disposable income had decreased. SNC offered to refund all 
interest and charges from this point. But I think SNC should have recognised the change in 
Miss Cs circumstances earlier than this, and it should have halted any further borrowing 
from 11 August 2018. So, I think SNC were wrong to continue lending from this point.Putting things right
Its not clear if Miss C has repaid her account in full whilst waiting for her complaint to be 
investigated, or whether she still has an outstanding balance. So, if the debt has been sold 
to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and then carry out the redress 
below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it needs to work with the 
third party to achieve the same results.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance that were
applied from 11 August 2018.
SNC should rework the account from 11 August 2018, so Miss C only has to repay 
the principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Miss C to SNC 
(and the third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Miss C had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to her. To this overpayment 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, SNC
should make an arrangement with Miss C to repay the balance. But Id remind the
lender of its obligation to treat her fairly.
SNC should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file as a 
result of not stopping the facility from 11 August 2018 until the facility is closed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman