DRN-1990657
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading at the time of sale as Barclays) mis-sold 
her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Ms A bought a regular premium MPPI policy in November 1999. Neither party can be sure 
where the policy was sold.
Ms A says she was told at the time of sale it was essential for her to have PPI. She says 
Barclays did not make it clear the policy was optional. She also adds that she had other 
insurance and sick pay which meant the PPI wasnt suitable for her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms As complaint. As she doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms As case.
Ive looked at the information provided by both parties and I have decided not to uphold        
Ms As complaint because of the following reasons:
Ms A says Barclays told her PPI was an essential part of having her mortgage and 
she wasnt given an option to say no. 
I acknowledge what Ms A has said. I cant be sure exactly what was discussed 
between Ms A and Barclays when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that the sale 
took place many years ago, and that recollections of what happened can fade over 
time.
Barclays hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. 
Thats not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other 
cases Ive seen. 
Without anything else to support what Ms A has told me and based on what I know of 
sales conducted by Barclays during that time, I cant safely conclude that Barclays 
didnt make Ms A aware that the policy was optional. So, I dont uphold her complaint 
on this point. 
Moving on, Barclays has said it recommended the MPPI to Ms A and so, as this puts 
additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the case. So, 
as it did recommend the policy to Ms A, it had to ensure during the sale that the 
policy was suitable for her needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Ms A based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Ms A 
says she would have been able to use her 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay 
but the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any provisions she would have 
had and for longer. So, the benefit would have been of use to Ms A during a difficult 
time as she could have used her provisions to pay for other expenses.
Ms A has also recently provided documentation about other insurance cover that she 
held at the time. I have reviewed this information and can see that this relates to 
critical illness and life assurance. So as this insurance was a different type of cover 
and didnt duplicate the cover the PPI policy provided (accidents, sickness and 
unemployment), I dont think it would have made it unsuitable, at least not enough 
that it would have put Ms A off from having it. I think, on balance, Ms A had a need 
for this cover based on her circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended 
period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a 
significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for her either.
Barclays couldnt provide any information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Ms A took out, but Ms A has been able to (the premium was for £13.59). 
Because Barclays have not been able to provide a lot with regards to the costs of the 
policy, I cannot be sure that they were disclosed to Ms A in a clear and fair way at the 
time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Ms A would 
have done anything different and decided against having the policy for the reasons 
that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Barclays didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Ms A wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Ms As 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman