DRN-2931236
The complaint
Ms M complains that TSB Bank plc should have notified her about a block on her debit card
and gave her incorrect timescales for her replacement debit card.  
What happened
Ms M was unable to use her debit card so she contacted TSB on Wednesday 2 December
2020. They informed her that her card had been blocked as they were concerned that her
details may have been compromised by a website she had used. Ms M thought that TSB
should have proactively contacted her to discuss this, or at the very least sent her a text
when the card was blocked.
Ms M says she explained to the call handler that she needed to use the debit card for
several transactions, especially for school meals for her daughter and she told the call
handler that she needed to buy food. She asked when she would get the replacement debit
card and she says she was told it would be Friday (4 December) or Saturday (5 December).
Ms M explained to the call handler that she was incapacitated due to a broken foot and that
she really needed the replacement card as soon as necessary as she had no other way to
pay for things.
The call handler raised a complaint for her on the phone. TSB did not uphold her complaint
as they said they had followed their procedure and as they hadnt made an error they
werent upholding her complaint.
Ms M brought her complaint to our service. She said that she was unhappy she had to
contact TSB regarding the block on her card and that her replacement card had arrived later
than shed been told. Ms M said that this inconvenienced her as she was unable to pay a
third party credit card (who blocked her card and charged a fee) and she was unable to pay
for her daughters school meals as the only way she could pay was by her debit card.
Our investigator initially upheld Ms Ms complaint. He felt there had been no bank error in
replacing the debit card but he felt that Ms Ms individual circumstances were not taken into
account when TSB told Ms M that her card may be with her by Saturday 5 December or
even could be with her Friday 4 December. He said at no point was Ms M told of the five to
six working days timeframe and that TSB should pay Ms M £100 for the inconvenience she
had.
TSB disagreed with our investigators outcome and raised a number of points. They said that
the call handler hadnt guaranteed that Ms M would get the debit card by Saturday, they said
she had other credit cards which she could have made payments, questioned how she could
visit the branch to pay money if she found it extremely difficult to leave the house with a
broken foot, said that due to the pandemic and the postal services busiest month
(December) then post could take longer than normal but Ms M still received the debit card in
five working days which was within their normal timeframe for a debit card replacement.
Our investigator put these points to Ms M who replied that a family member drove her to the
branch to enquire where her replacement card was, she needed to pay for her daughters
school meals, she didnt have access to her credit cards, she borrowed money from a family
member to make the payment to the third party credit card provider and she couldnt go to
her local branch as it was closed.
TSB said that Ms M could have just called them to make the payment to the credit card
company as opposed to visiting the branch, especially given her medical issues and they
said that they she hadnt made any payments for the school meals before or after the card
arrived.
Ms M explained to our investigator the individual circumstances of her daughters eating
situation. She explained she would need to use her card to top up at least £2.20 a day if her
daughter wanted to eat something from the menu or get some supplies from the shop but
she couldnt get her hands on some money. She explained that her daughters school
couldnt handle cheques and card terminals due to the pandemic so they only way she could
pay for the school meals is online using her debit card.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. He said while being told the incorrect
timeframe willve been frustrating, hes not seen that this delay led her to be unable to pay
for school meals and she didnt need to visit the branch to make the payment as she was
registered for telephone banking, so she could have made the payment without leaving the
house. Ms M asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that due to her
daughters situation, it depends on the menu as to whether she would need to pay for school
meals and the week she was waiting for her debit card was a week she wanted her daughter
to have some school dinners. She felt TSB were accusing her of giving our service false
information and said it is not up to TSB to tell her what she can spend her own money on.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M and TSB have made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of Ms Ms complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
The first thing Ive looked at is the circumstances regarding the debit card being blocked and
if this resulted in an unfair outcome for Ms M. Im satisfied that the card was blocked with her
safety in mind. I say this as her details could have been compromised. So, what I would
expect in these circumstances is for TSB to have controls in place to ensure Ms M is
protected against potential data breaches. Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that
TSBs systems worked as they should have done here.
Ive considered what Ms M has said about how she should have been notified about this
earlier. It may help if I explain to Ms M that as a service our role is not to tell a business how
to run their processes, but to see if TSB were fair in applying their processes and Im
satisfied that they were here. I say that as they blocked her card when they felt there was a
suspicious transaction and followed their process in waiting for Ms M to contact them to
issue a new replacement debit card and thats what happened here.
So next Ive listened to the phone call which Ms M had with TSB. TSB say that the call
handler never guaranteed that the debit card would be with Ms M by Saturday. But I am
persuaded that the call handler set an expectation that the debit card would be with her
earlier than it was and Ill explain why.Ms M asks the call handler when she would get her new debit card. The call handler says
its two to three working days, so I would say you would get it by Saturday. Two to three
working days, you may get it by Friday. So I am persuaded that Ms M was told incorrect
information here as the timeframe for a debit card replacement according to TSB is five to
six working days. By telling Ms M that it takes two to three working days this created an
expectation for Ms M that the card would arrive by then.
So while it may be possible for the card to be received by the next day, or in a couple of
days, TSB have also said that they were impacted by the pandemic and December is the
busiest month for the postal service, so I do think that the call handler shouldve set realistic
timeframes for Ms M, by informing her of the normal timeframes for a replacement debit
card. And, as Ms M called on an evening this meant the card couldnt be processed until the
following day. I would expect the call handler to be familiar with this and she didnt tell Ms M
the request would be processed the following day, therefore as the call handler said it would
be two to three working days until Ms M would get the replacement card then this would
create an expectation that Ms M would receive the replacement debit card by the following
Monday at the latest as three working days from Wednesday, when Ms M contacted TSB
would be Monday.
TSB has said that they think the call handler was just trying to alleviate Ms Ms distress and
thats why she told Ms M that she would have the replacement debit card by Friday or
Saturday. And I think that that would have been fair if the call handler gave Ms M the caveat
that it could take up to six working days for her to receive the debit card. But at no time on
the call did the call handler give the correct timeframe.
Ms M informs the call handler that she needs to buy food and pay for her daughters school
meals. Ms M has said that she had a broken foot and this made it difficult for her to get out.
So I do think that by giving Ms M incorrect information about when she would receive her
card that this wouldve inconvenienced Ms M when the replacement debit card didnt arrive
by the timeframes given to her. I say this as Ms M has explained her daughters eating
habits, which I wont go into detail here. Its clear on the phone call that it is of concern to her
for paying for the school meals and she wouldnt have had her new debit card to pay for
these.
Ive seen from Ms Ms bank statements that between 12 October 2020 and 20 November
2020 that shes paid between £2.20-£11 for school meals on four different occasions so I
accept what Ms M has said about her daughter and the infrequency of her paying for school
meals. As she was unable to pay for the meals using her debit card and the school werent
using card terminals or cheques because of the pandemic then Ms M wouldve needed to
make alternative arrangements for her daughters school meals and this would have
inconvenienced her.
TSB have questioned why Ms M visited the branch instead of contacting them to make the
payment to the credit card provider if she had a broken foot. TSB said Ms M was registered
for telephone banking so she could have made the payment over the phone and said that
Ms M said she was without funds but didnt make a withdrawal when she visited the branch.
But Im not persuaded that it would be unreasonable for Ms M to want to speak to a branch
member face to face to see what was happening with her replacement card, even if this
caused her pain travelling to the branch. Although TSB say there was no note on the system
about her asking about the replacement card, Im not persuaded that this is evidence that
she hadnt had a conversation with a staff member regarding her card. Although Ms M was
set up for telephone banking in 2013, she would be entitled to use whichever channel TSB
makes available for her to make a payment so Im not persuaded that this should make a
difference to her complaint. And while Ms M may not have withdrawn money from heraccount when she visited the branch she has said this is because she borrowed from family
members.
Im satisfied that the replacement debit card was sent out when it should have been and was
received within the normal timeframes, despite the pandemic and the postal services
busiest month. But Im also persuaded that Ms M was given the incorrect timeframes, even if
TSB disagree here as Ms M was told by the call handler it would take her two to three
working days when Ms M asked her how long it would be before she had the new card. So
Im not persuaded there was no bank error here.
I think it would be fair, based on Ms Ms individual circumstances for TSB to pay Ms M for
the inconvenience the incorrect timeframes had on her. As Ms M received the replacement
card on the following Wednesday  five working days when she rang and four working days
from when it was processed, I think the impact on Ms M of the wrong timeframes would be
limited. But I am satisfied for the reasons Ive already given that Ms M was inconvenienced
here. So I think that TSB should pay Ms M £50 for the impact that the wrong information had
on her. So it follows that I intend to ask TSB should put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision then my final decision and reasoning 
remain the same. It follows that Ill now be telling TSB what theyll need to do to put things 
right here.   
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested TSB should pay Ms M £50 for the inconvenience they 
caused her and Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Ms M £50 compensation for 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman