DRN-2924631
The complaint and what happened
Miss R complains the switch to off function on Barclays Bank UK PLCs mobile app wasnt 
sufficient to stop her gambling. Between September 2019 and September 2020 she was 
able to gamble over £11,000 (although she might have lost more before this). She says 
there should have been a time lapse between being able to switch on and off payments 
being allowed to be made to gambling sites, or that she should have had to contact Barclays 
directly to facilitate that. 
The full details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
Barclays mobile banking app allows certain payment types to switched between off 
and on, such as international payments, payments to gambling sites etc. At the time 
of the transactions these could be switched at will. 
Miss Rs records show she switched this functionality off and on constantly to enable 
payments to gambling sites to be made. 
When Miss R left the functionality as off (so payments couldnt be made), she still 
gambled through overseas sites that werent categorised as gambling sites. 
Our investigator didnt find Barclays had done anything wrong. As a result of 
customer feedback, Barclays has now introduced a 72-hour time lapse before being 
able to change the functionality between off and on. Miss R considers that shows 
Barclays has admitted liability. She also considers it should have done more to 
support her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Miss R says the functionality in the mobile app was part of measures she was taking 
to recover from her gambling addiction. So whilst I understand her point about 
Barclays providing further support, even if agreed it should have done more (which I 
dont necessarily) it seems she already had some support in place. 
£11,000 in a year is a lot of money. And I accept on occasion there were lots of 
transactions to gambling sites in one-day. But that doesnt necessarily mean there is 
a problem, or that Barclays ought to have intervened. 
I accept that Barclays has now introduced a time-lapse feature. But I dont agree that 
means it got it wrong initially or that it has admitted liability for Miss Rs losses. All 
functionality, whether that be in an app, in store or on-line will be subject to change 
and improvements over time, quite often as a result of customer feedback. 
The app operated as it was intended to at the time. I appreciate in Miss Rs 
circumstances that meant she was able to continue gambling. But Ive noted that 
even when she left the functionality off so payments to gambling sites were 
declined, Miss R found sites she could still use. This was because they werent 
categorised as gambling sites. So even if the time-lapse had been introduced earlier, 
Im not persuaded this would have resulted in Miss Rs situation being much different; 
she still gambled by using different routes. 
That some sites dont categorise themselves correctly as gambling sites is not 
something Barclays has any control over. And I understand most preventative 
technology uses the same merchant categorisation basis for their applications to 
work. Miss R now makes use of a third-party app which is helping her, but the 
information on its website shows that even it doesnt work 100% of the time.  
During the course of her complaint, Miss R has argued that she should have been 
made to contact Barclays directly to enable her to make payments to gambling sites 
again. Im not sure how that would have stopped a payment from being made. A 
bank cant generally stop a customer from spending their own money on what they 
wish. Whilst it might be prudent for a bank to check whether the customer really 
wants to do that, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect a bank to counsel 
against such payments or even refuse to allow them. As Miss R sought out sites not 
caught by the existing preventative measures in place, its hard to see how such a 
measure would have made much difference. 
Barclays has offered to change Miss Rs debit card to a cash card, in a further step to 
help her. I understand why she might not want to do that, given the current climate 
and that people are encouraged to pay by card. But Im satisfied it is offering further 
ways to support her. 
I do empathise with the situation in which Miss R finds herself. But overall, Im not persuaded 
Barclays has done anything wrong, such that I would make an award or ask it to reimburse 
Miss Rs losses.   
My final decision
For the reasons, given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman