DRN-4220555
The complaint
Mr T complains that AWP P&C SA unfairly declined a claim on his mechanical breakdown 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T was driving along the motorway and the glass sunroof of his car shattered 
unexpectedly. At the time Mr T said he wasnt driving under a bridge, and nothing came into 
contact with his car. He therefore called AWP to report the incident. 
Mr T said AWP acknowledged it might be a mechanical fault and to book his car in with a 
manufacturing garage to get it looked at. Mr T said he tried to book it in but there were 
delays in getting an appointment. As he was concerned about making sure his car was 
secure and protected from the weather, he called his car insurer who explained he had glass 
cover on his policy which also included his sunroof. Because of this Mr T booked an 
appointment to get the glass replaced through his car insurance policy. 
The company who replaced the glass let Mr T know there was an issue with the sunroof 
mechanism as it wasnt working. Mr T therefore booked his car in with the manufacturing 
garage to have it looked into. The manufacturing garage said the sunroof mechanism had a 
fault and it needed to be replaced, so Mr T claimed on his policy with AWP. 
AWP reviewed the claim and declined it. It said as repairs had been carried out to his car 
outside of the manufacturing approved network then his claim wasnt covered. Mr T wasnt 
happy and complained. AWP maintained its position but offered £50 for the poor claim 
handling. Mr T therefore referred his complaint here, he said hed paid £1,650 to have the 
sunroof mechanism replaced and thought AWP should cover this cost. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She 
acknowledged the policy said it wouldnt cover claims unless completed through the 
manufacturing approved network, however AWP hadnt shown how Mr T having the glass 
replaced had prejudiced the claim. So, she recommended AWP pay Mr T what he paid to 
replace the sunroof mechanism. 
AWP didnt agree, it said the terms were clear that Mr T needed to use a manufacturer 
approved repairer. It also said if he had the claim wouldnt be covered anyway as the policy 
excludes cover for glass. 
As AWP didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts policy covers him for the electrical or mechanical failure of parts, the parts which are 
covered depend on the level of cover Mr T has. I can see he has a Comprehensive 
Component warranty which renewed each year with AWP. The policy terms say: Your 
Comprehensive Component Cover covers all factory fitted mechanical and electrical 
components of the insured vehicle with the exception of the following. The policy then 
excludes some parts. The repair invoice for Mr Ts policy says the sunroof cassette was 
replaced at a total cost to Mr T of £1,650. Im unable to see the parts listed on the repair 
invoice as being excluded within the level of cover Mr T has, so it appears the parts which 
needed replacing are covered.  
The terms and conditions also say: All repairs must be carried out by an authorised BMW 
retailer or BMW service workshop. This is the term AWP has relied upon to decline the 
claim. I can see Mr T had the glass replaced through a reputable glass company, however 
the repair to the sunroof mechanism has been done by a manufacturing garage. Even if it 
wasnt it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for AWP to decline a claim for a breach of a term if 
the breach isnt material to the loss. 
AWP hasnt shown why Mr T having the glass replaced though his motor insurance policy 
has prejudiced its position. And as the repair for the item claimed for has been done by a 
manufacturing garage, Im not satisfied AWP has acted fairly and reasonably in declining this 
claim. This also follows for the point AWP raised about glass not being covered under the 
policy. I agree glass is excluded, however the invoice for the repair says: replaced sunroof 
cassette and then lists the parts for this, which doesnt include the glass. 
So, when looking at this claim, Mr T has paid to replace covered parts which have suffered a 
mechanical or electrical failure. He shouldnt have needed to pay. Therefore, to put Mr T 
back in the position he should have been in, AWP needs to pay Mr T the £1,650 he paid for 
the repair, minus any applicable policy excess. AWP should also add 8% simple interest per 
year to the amount it pays to compensate Mr T for not having the money. When looking at 
the impact AWPs error in declining the claim has had on Mr T, Im satisfied the £50 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable for the poor claim handling. AWP should also 
pay this to Mr T if not already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AWP P&C SA to:
Pay Mr T the £1,650 he paid for repair, minus any applicable policy excess. 8% 
simple interest per year needs to be added to what it pays, calculated from the date 
Mr T paid for the repair until the date payment is made
Pay Mr T £50 for distress and inconvenience, if not already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman