DRN-2555733
The complaint
Ms H has complained that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) turned down her application for an 
account  which she believed has negatively impacted on her credit score.
What happened
In late 2019, Ms H visited one of HSBCs branches to apply for one of their Advance bank 
accounts.  Her application was declined because she didnt meet the income criteria.  But 
she was approved for an HSBC bank account, which was opened.  
Ms H complained.  She said she could meet the income criteria and her application for the 
Advance account shouldnt have been declined.  And she felt branch staff had been rude to 
her and hadnt explained to her how the account shed opened could be converted to an 
Advance account.
HSBC investigated Ms Hs complaint.  They explained shed not met the eligibility criteria for 
an Advance account.  So they werent upholding her complaint.  But HSBC did accept theyd 
not provided Ms H with the correct information about how to raise her complaint.  They paid 
her £25 for that error.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and brought her complaint to us.  In addition to 
the issues shed raised with HSBC, she told us that her credit score had been ruined 
because shed not been able to open an Advance account.  And she said shed had to watch 
a video which had incorrect information in it  which she considered unprofessional.
Our investigator considered Ms Hs complaint, but didnt think that HSBC should have done 
anything differently.  He thought HSBC had made it clear why Ms H hadnt been able to 
open the account shed wanted and that theyd applied their eligibility criteria as they would 
to any customer.  And  while he understood Ms Hs concern - he said that banks have to 
report accurate up to date information to credit agencies.
Ms H didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
First, I should explain that we dont have the power to look at every type of concern 
someone may have about a bank.  We can only look at what our rules call regulated 
activities.  Customer service and Ms Hs concerns about staff standards arent regulated 
activities.  So Im not going to look at those parts of her complaint.
I understand why Ms H wasnt happy.  She applied for a particular account with HSBC 
because it suited her needs.  But her application was unsuccessful, and she ended up with 
an account that she felt was less use to her than her previous account with another bank.
Ive looked at the information provided about the Advance account by HSBC.  And Ive 
looked at the information generally available on HSBCs website.  Its clear from these 
sources that one of the qualifying criteria is someone must be able to pay in a minimum 
amount each month from one of a number of particular sources.
Ive seen information from Ms Hs application.  The income figures are lower than the 
minimum HSBC require.  So, while I dont doubt Ms Hs statement that she could have 
deposited the required amount, the application doesnt reflect that.  So I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to decline it.
Although Ms Hs application for an Advance account was declined, she was approved for an 
HSBC bank account that didnt have a minimum monthly deposit.  Ms H opened this 
account.  She says she did so reluctantly and only after being told that it would be changed 
to an Advance account three months later.  
Ive thought carefully about this.  If there were an automatic review and reclassification of the 
account, Id expect to see that in the account terms which were provided to Ms H.  But it 
isnt.  And I find HSBCs comment - that its not appropriate to review the account 
automatically, because customers needs change  persuasive.  
And there are other terms which apply to the Advance account  such as agreeing to a credit 
search  which customers may not accept.  So Im persuaded that HSBC were reasonable in 
not reviewing the account without Ms H asking them to.
Ms H also says she shouldve been advised to pay the minimum amount required for an 
Advance account into her bank account each month, to facilitate it being changed to an 
Advance account.  But, once it was open, it was up to Ms H how she used her account.  
Without anything to show me Ms H asked HSBC for specific advice, Im not persuaded they 
should have given her information about how she might make another application for an 
Advance account.
And, even if they had suggested to Ms H that she do this, there was no guarantee that a new 
application would be successful.  The income requirement is just one of a number of factors 
which feed into HSBCs decision.  So I think it was reasonable not to raise Ms Hs 
expectations about this.
Finally Ive thought about Ms Hs concern that declining her application has had an impact 
on her credit file.  HSBC have said the information they provided to credit reference 
agencies was that Ms H had made a successful application for a bank account.
Our investigator invited Ms H to provide a copy of her credit report.  But shes not done that 
 so Ive not seen a copy.  Nor have I seen any evidence that shows Ms H has been refused 
credit as a result of entries made by HSBC.  So I cant say the declined application has had 
any impact on her credit score.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint about HSBC UK Bank 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Helen StaceyOmbudsman