DRN-2511870
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt give them a new interest 
rate product when theirs ended in 2019. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have a mortgage with Barclays they arranged in 2011. They had a fixed 
interest rate product attached to it which expired in October 2019. At that time they were 
recovering from a period of financial difficulty and had an open complaint against Barclays 
about how their arrears should be dealt with.
As Mr and Mrs W were in arrears with their mortgage, Barclays policy said it wouldnt offer 
them a new interest rate product. Mr and Mrs W are unhappy about this as it meant their 
monthly payment increased and they believe they were paying more to their mortgage than 
they could otherwise have been. They complained.
Barclays responded to this complaint in isolation from the other ongoing complaint. It said 
Mr and Mrs W didnt at that time qualify for a new interest rate product. It said that if they 
reduced the arrears to the amount of two months contractual monthly payments (CMP), it 
would give them a forbearance fixed rate for 12 months. However, it considered the 
information it had given to Mr and Mrs W about obtaining a new fixed rate had been wrong at 
times and it offered them £100 to apologise for the errors.
As part of the discussions about Mr and Mrs W paying back the arrears on their mortgage 
account, Barclays had already offered to give them a forbearance fixed rate for 12 months to 
free up some additional income to allow them to reduce their arrears. The requirement to 
have already reduced the arrears to the equivalent of two months CMP was not made with 
this offer. However, there were other conditions placed on the offer  that the difference 
between the old CMP and the new be paid to the mortgage to reduce the arrears and a 
further payment made to reduce the arrears. 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with Barclays decisions and so asked this service to consider 
the complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
considered the offer made on the other complaint addressed the concerns raised in this 
complaint and it was fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators 
conclusions as they didnt believe they were being treated fairly by Barclays. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was been passed to me to consider. I 
issued a provisional decision on 15 December 2020. In that document I set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
When reviewing this complaint in isolation, Barclays acknowledged that it had at times given 
Mr and Mrs W incorrect information about obtaining a new fixed rate. It offered them £100 
compensation in this regard, and I think that was reasonable. 
However, it maintained that Mr and Mrs W couldnt have a new fixed rate, even a 
forbearance one, because the arrears balance on the account was too high. This is Barclays 
policy and it can set its own policies. That said, if a consumer considers a policy doesnt treat 
them fairly and appeals, it would be appropriate for a lender to look at whether it is indeed 
treating that customer fairly. If it concludes that it is not, then it needs to adapt its position, 
based on the consumers individual circumstances.
Lenders tend not to grant a new interest rate products that involve an early repayment 
charge (ERC) to consumers who have been in financial difficulties. This is because, should 
those difficulties return, the existence of an ERC can make the situation worse. That may not 
be an entirely unreasonable position to take in some situations. However, I dont consider 
that was an appropriate position to take in this case where the customers financial situation 
had stabilised, they were confident that would remain the case and there is reasonable 
evidence to support that. It would not seem appropriate for that consumer to be penalised in 
the long-term because of events in the past that have been resolved. 
In this case Mr and Mrs Ws finances had improved, but less than six months earlier. So I 
dont necessarily think that Barclays were wrong to decline to allow Mr and Mrs W to take 
out a normal fixed rate product with an ERC payable. However, when Mr and Mrs W said 
they thought they werent being treated fairly, I think Barclays should have investigated their 
situation further and assessed it in isolation. 
While that doesnt appear to have been done in relation to this complaint, it was done in 
relation to the other one. Mr and Mrs W were offered a forbearance fixed rate for 12 months, 
which didnt have an ERC payable. The requirement to have significantly reduced the 
arrears first was removed. Although the offer on the other complaint was not ideal for other 
reasons, which I have dealt with under that complaint, the substance of the offer addressed 
this complaint issue. 
I think Barclays could and should have gone further when addressing Mr and Mrs Ws 
concerns about accessing a new interest rate product.  However, I dont propose to make a 
further award on this complaint as the redress on the linked case compensates 
Mr and Mrs W adequately.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs W didnt accept my conclusions 
about either of their complaints. However, their further comments, whilst significant, all 
related to the other complaint, not this one. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this complaint again, I remain satisfied that Barclays should have gone 
further when considering what it could do in relation to a new interest rate product for 
Mr and Mrs W. However, as my conclusions regarding redress remain the same in relation 
to Mr and Mrs Ws other complaint, I am not making an award in this case.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint as I am not satisfied that Barclays dealt appropriately with the matter 
of Mr and Mrs Ws fixed rate expiring and their request to replace it. However, in light of my 
findings on their other linked complaint, I am not making an award.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman