DRN-4098295
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) 
unfairly declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S contacted UKI to make a claim when the shower tray dropped in their 
bathroom. UKI asked them to provide a cause of damage report. It then declined the claim 
as it said there wasnt evidence to show what had happened was covered by the policy. 
When Mr S and Mrs S complained, UKI maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr 
S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said Mr S and Mrs S hadnt shown the claim was covered by the policy.
As Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr S and Mrs S contacted UKI about what had happened to the shower tray, they 
were asked to provide a cause of damage report. Mr S and Mrs S have said UKI should 
have sent a surveyor. However, it isnt unusual for an insurer to ask for a cause of damage 
report, particularly where it is unclear whether the circumstances are likely to be covered by 
the policy. The onus is on the policyholder to show what they are claiming for is an insured 
event. 
Mr S and Mrs S provided a plumbers report. UKI considered this and then declined the 
claim, as it said it still wasnt clear why the shower tray had dropped, as there wasnt an 
explanation for how the water damage had happened. Ive looked at the report. It said: 
Investigated shower leaking, found base where shower tray is sitting on has dropped away 
so tray is no longer supported in far corner. This has caused tray to drop and leave a gap 
between tile & tray which has led to ingress of water and caused tiles & sub wall to crack 
and become damaged.
Having read the full report, I dont think the report explained that the shower tray had 
dropped as the result of an escape of water. I also note the water ingress is described as a 
consequence of the tray dropping, not the cause of it. I think it was reasonable for UKI to 
conclude there wasnt evidence to show what happened was covered by the policy. Im 
aware Mr S and Mrs S have also said UKI applied an exclusion. However, from what Ive 
seen, that wasnt the case. UKI explained what it thought was the more likely cause, such as 
maintenance or a gradually operating cause, and that it therefore wasnt covered by the 
policy. But as it hadnt accepted that an insured event had taken place, it didnt need to apply 
an exclusion.
Mr S and Mrs S have also said the claim should have been dealt with under the trace and 
access part of the policy. The purpose of trace and access is to try and find the source of a 
leak from the water or heating system and to put right damage caused in finding the leak. 
But, what Mr S and Mrs S and their plumber described didnt suggest there was a leak from 
these sources and trace and access isnt a way to more generally investigate whether there 
is a potential insured event under the policy or to repair the damage.
Mr S and Mrs S have also said they didnt receive the policy documents when they took out 
the policy. So, Ive thought about this. UKI has provided evidence of when it printed the 
documents. Mr S and Mrs S have said this doesnt show the documents were actually sent. 
Im aware that is the case. However, Ive no evidence to show the documents werent posted 
and once the documents enter the postal system, UKI wasnt responsible for their delivery. 
In addition, Mrs S spoke to UKI when she took out the policy and was advised that she 
should receive the documents by post within seven days. Neither Mr S or Mrs S contacted 
UKI to say the documents hadnt been received. So, I dont think UKI had any reason to 
think there was an issue with the documents.
Im aware Mr S and Mrs S have provided this service with another report from the plumber. 
In its response to the complaint, UKI said it would consider further evidence about the cause 
of damage if Mr S and Mrs S provided it. I think the decision UKI made at the time, and 
confirmed in its response to the complaint, was reasonable based on the evidence available 
to it. If Mr S and Mrs S think the report would potentially change UKIs decision on the claim, 
they should provide it to UKI in the first instance so it can consider it.
Im aware of Mr S and Mrs Ss personal circumstances and that this will be a disappointment 
to them, but based on everything Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman