DRN-3601046
The complaint
Mrs S complains Great Lakes Insurance SE have unfairly refused to provide cover under her 
legal expenses insurance policy to pursue an employment claim.
Mrs S is represented in bringing her complaint, but, for ease, I refer to Mrs S throughout. 
And where I refer to Great Lakes Insurance SE, I include their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mrs S had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Great Lakes Insurance SE which covered 
claims relating to certain employment disputes from 27 October 2019 to 26 October 2020. 
In early October 2020 Mrs S became aware some of her colleagues were receiving 
payments that werent being made to her. She believed the payments had started when 
shed been on a career break from her former employer in 2006. Shed missed out on the 
payments then and continued to do so after her employment transferred to her current 
employer in 2012. 
Mrs S approached her employer to find out why she wasnt getting the payments. She 
couldnt get any clear information from them or her former employers. In February 2021   
Mrs S raised the possibility of taking legal action against them. She approached her current 
LEI insurers in April 2021 to cover the costs of doing so. They declined the claim on grounds 
the incident giving rise to the claim arose before she took the policy out. They referred her to 
Great Lakes as her previous insurer.
Great Lakes said initially Mrs Ss claim wasnt covered as she had a claims made policy 
and shed claimed outside the period of cover. After Mrs S complained, Great Lakes 
considered her claim under the Employment disputes section of her policy. They took legal 
advice on the prospects of making a successful legal claim against the employers. The 
solicitors advised there were no reasonable prospects of success. Great Lakes declined  
Mrs Ss claim on that basis and because shed brought her complaint outside time limits set 
out in the policy.
Since she was unhappy with Great Lakes decision, Mrs S brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator noted Great Lakes reasons for declining Mrs Ss claim had changed over 
time. But she didnt think Mrs S was covered under the LEI policy or that Great Lakes had 
unreasonably declined her claim. So, she didnt uphold her complaint. Since Mrs S didnt 
agree, her complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Ss concerns about her salary. And I appreciate her strength of 
feeling about whats happened. However, whilst I understand she will be disappointed, I 
dont uphold her complaint about Great Lakes refusal to provide LEI cover for the reasons 
Ill explain.
Under the relevant rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), an insurer should 
consider claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt decline a claim unreasonably. Ive 
considered Mrs Ss complaint against that background. The starting point is her LEI policy.
Broadly, the Great Lakes policy covered reasonable legal fees for certain events, up to the 
maximum amounts set out, during the period of cover. The period of cover was 27 October 
2019 to 26 October 2020. 
I dont think Mrs S would have been aware shed need to make a claim on the Great Lakes 
policy before it ran out at the end of October 2020. Shed had another issue relating to her 
salary in around 2013 which turned out to be an administrative error. And she thought at first 
the problem with the additional payments might be an error too. Although shed queried the 
position with her employer in early October, it wasnt until February 2021 the possibility of 
taking legal action  and the need to make an LEI claim - arose. 
Mrs S initially claimed on her policy with her then current insurer in April 2021. I think that 
was reasonable considering that was the policy she had in place when the legal dispute 
arose. They declined her claim on grounds it was about an event that was part of a series of 
events that began in early October 2020 before their policy had started. It was only when 
they turned her claim down that Mrs S approached Great Lakes. 
The Great Lakes policy set out clearly it was a claims made policy, so it only covered 
claims notified by Mrs S during the period of cover. She made her complaint outside the 
policy period. But in circumstances where a policyholders claim falls between two policies 
and theres been no gap in cover, wed generally consider it fair for one of the insurers to 
accept the claim, subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy. 
Based on what Mrs S has said, I dont think she knew shed have to make a LEI claim at all 
until around February 2021. Mrs S contacted Great Lakes promptly after the previous insurer 
had confirmed they were declining her claim. So, I think it would have been unfair for Great 
Lakes to turn the claim down unless theyd been prejudiced by the late notification.
I havent seen anything that persuades me Great Lakes were disadvantaged by Mrs S 
notifying her claim outside the period of cover. The events on which any legal claim would be 
based already went back many years, so the position wasnt substantively different when 
she notified them. Any difficulties in obtaining information already existed before Mrs S 
became aware she might have cause to complain about her pay. And the solicitors Great 
Lakes appointed to consider the claim were able to advise on prospects of success based 
on the information Mrs S could provide. So, I think it was fair Great Lakes agreed to accept 
the claim and consider it subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes considered her claim under the Employment disputes section of the policy. I 
agree thats the only potentially relevant section of the policy under which her claim could 
have been considered. Mrs Ss questioned whether the Contract Disputes section of the 
policy applied. But that doesnt cover employment contracts, so its not relevant here.
Under the Employment disputes section, cover was provided for professional fees up to 
£25,000 for Great Lakes to negotiate Mrs Ss legal rights concerning a claim for unfair or 
wrongful dismissal, redundancy or unlawful discrimination by her employer falling within the 
jurisdiction of an employment tribunal. So, the cover was limited in scope.Great Lakes suggested Mrs S was in breach of condition for bringing her complaint outside a 
14-day time limit. In fact, it was a condition of the Employment disputes section that any 
claim should be made within 30 days of Mrs S becoming aware of the alleged discrimination 
giving rise to her claim. And the general conditions applying to the whole of the policy said 
Mrs S must notify any event which may give rise to a claim as soon as possible and provide 
full details of any claim no later than 180 days after the event giving rise to the claim.
Mrs S first became aware of the alleged discrimination in early October 2020. Since she 
didnt notify her claim until June 2021, she was outside the 30-day time limit. FCA rules say 
an insurer shouldnt reject a claim for breach of condition unless the circumstances of the 
claim are connected to the breach. Generally, that means an insurer shouldnt reject a claim 
where the policyholder hasnt told them about it in time, unless they can show theyve been 
prejudiced as a result. For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not persuaded Great Lakes 
were disadvantaged by Mrs S notifying her complaint late. So, I dont think it would have 
been fair for them to have rejected Mrs Ss claim on that ground alone.
However, it was a further condition of cover that Mrs Ss legal claim should have reasonable 
prospects of success. That meant it had to have a greater chance than not of being wholly 
successful at the time of reporting your claim and throughout the conduct of your claim. 
Great Lakes took legal advice about that. 
The solicitors Great Lakes appointed were suitably qualified and experienced. Their 
assessment of Mrs Ss case was reasoned and refers to the information provided by Mrs S. 
Even though, as Mrs S has mentioned, the solicitors didnt directly address whether a claim 
could be made against the current employer for the additional payments over the last six 
years, they said it was unlikely any entitlement to that payment formed part of her contract. 
Overall, theres nothing I think a layman - which includes insurers, as they arent lawyers - 
would consider to be obviously wrong with the advice the solicitors gave. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the advice that her potential legal claims, covered 
under the policy, didnt have reasonable prospects of success. If Mrs S is unhappy with the 
legal advice, she would need to complain direct to the solicitors because they are separately 
regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. We dont have power to consider 
complaints about solicitors. 
We wouldnt expect an insurer to fund a claim where there arent reasonable prospects of a 
successful outcome. Court action is expensive. Its unlikely an individual would run the risk of 
pursuing a claim thats unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect an insurer to do so either. 
So, bearing in mind the solicitors advice, I dont think Great Lakes decision to decline the 
claim was unreasonable. 
Mrs S felt Great Lakes ought to cover the costs of obtaining missing information from the 
employers. But I wouldnt expect them to cover any costs in relation to the legal claim unless 
and until the solicitors had confirmed it had reasonable prospects of success. The onus is on 
Mrs S as the policyholder to provide information to prove her claim is covered under the 
policy. So, shed need to take any further action to get hold of the missing information at her 
own expense. If she was able to do so, Id expect Great Lakes to consider if it made any 
difference to policy coverage. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs S will be disappointed, I dont think 
Great Lakes declined her claim unfairly. And I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman