DRN-2015196
The complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about an incorrect redemption figure Just Retirement Limited gave her 
in 2017. In settlement of the complaint she would like Just Retirement to stand by its mistake 
and repay the £114,000 extra money it required to clear the mortgage.
Mrs T is represented by her financial advisers, which I will refer to as Mrs Ts IFA.
What happened
In 2009 Mrs T arranged a lifetime mortgage with Just Retirement. An advance of £240,000 
was agreed which could be drawn down as and when required by Mrs T. Between May 2009 
and January 2014 she drew down most of those funds. In March 2014 a further advance 
was agreed of £265,000 and she had withdrawn a further £45,000 by January 2015.
The following year Mrs T sold her home and moved to a new one. She kept a mortgage with 
Just Retirement when she did, but because the new property was worth less than the old 
one, she had to reduce the mortgage by £298,229.13 to keep the loan-to-value the same. 
The annual statement Mrs T was sent in 2017 showed she owed a little over £156,000 on 
her mortgage.
In 2017 Mrs T decided to move again. Her IFA arranged a new lifetime mortgage with a 
different provider for the new purchase. As such, the mortgage with Just Retirement was to 
be repaid in full, including payment of an early repayment charge. Mrs Ts IFA asked Just 
Retirement how much it would cost to repay the mortgage in July 2017 and it was sent a 
correct figure of £179,066.76 for repayment on 25 July 2017, including the early repayment 
charge. It appears Mrs T moved forward with her plans to move based on this figure, found a 
new property and arranged her new mortgage.
A redemption statement was requested by Mrs Ts solicitors in August 2017 and Just 
Retirement provided an incorrect redemption figure on 5 September 2017. The statement 
said the amount needed to repay the mortgage was £66,305.88, including interest and an 
early repayment charge. I have seen no evidence that indicates the solicitor shared this 
information with Mrs T before her sale and purchase completed.
Mrs Ts solicitors transferred that sum to Just Retirement on 25 September 2017 when her 
house sale completed and, based on land registry records, her purchase also completed. 
Just Retirement contacted the solicitors ten days later to inform it that the redemption 
statement sent was incorrect and there was an outstanding balance of £114,488.61. It 
requested payment of those funds. Interest on the mortgage was frozen as of the date the 
original redemption monies were received by Just Retirement. The additional funds were 
sent to it a few days later.
In April 2019 Mrs T complained about what had happened in 2017. Just Retirement 
responded to the complaint and upheld it. It accepted it had made an error. It explained 
because Mrs T had moved in 2016 and a partial redemption had been made, all statements 
from that time should have been calculated manually. Unfortunately, whilst the regular 
statement in 2017 and the redemption figure given to Mrs Ts IFA before the sale of her 
home had been calculated manually and correctly, the redemption statement given to the 
solicitor hadnt. It paid Mrs T £200 compensation.
Mrs T didnt accept Just Retirements position and referred her complaint to this service. 
Two of our investigators considered the complaint. They both considered that having to pay 
out more to clear the mortgage than expected would have been quite a shock to Mrs T. They 
felt that Just Retirement should increase the compensation it had paid and ultimately this 
was recommended to be a further £300.
Just Retirement accepted the recommendation to increase the compensation to £500 in 
total. Mrs T didnt. She felt the compensation suggested was unacceptable. Her IFA 
disagreed that she would have been expecting the redemption figure to be higher. It said 
that £500 didnt correct the issue and wouldnt make Just Retirement review its procedures. 
Mrs Ts IFA suggested that Mrs T hadnt completed on her purchase at the same time as the 
sale of her former home and had to find the additional c. £114,000 in order to do so or be 
homeless. It was previously stated that the error led Mrs T to have to borrow money from 
friends and family. In addition, the stress this caused resulted in mental and physical stress, 
which resulted in her being hospitalised. It was requested that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman.
Subsequently Mrs Ts IFA confirmed that she wanted £55,000 compensation. This was 
because in order to pay the additional funds to clear the mortgage the following actions had 
been completed:
Liquidation at short notice of US investments by family members. It is anticipated that 
those investments would have increased by £12,000 during the year of borrowing.
The cost of transferring the funds to the UK and then transferring the money back to the 
US of £3,000. 
Loss of increase in the value of the property due to the extra time required to conclude 
the renovation work. It was anticipated the renovation would be completed in 2019 but 
instead it still needs work. That work would add £40,000 onto the value of the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I am sure Mrs Ts IFA is aware this services role is to consider individual complaints. We 
are not the regulator and we do not make awards of redress in order to punish a financial 
business. Taking such action would be the role of the regulator and if that was one of 
Mrs Ts aims when raising her complaint, that is where she would need to refer her 
concerns.
It is not in question that Just Retirement made a mistake when it issued an incorrect 
redemption statement. So I dont propose to comment on that matter. I will restrict my 
consideration to the consequences of that mistake and what should be done to rectify the 
situation the mistake caused. Before I set out my conclusions, I would confirm that when 
considering such matters, we look at whether a consumer has been prejudiced by the 
mistake and what position they would have been in had it not happened. We do not award 
redress to place a consumer in the position they would have been in if the mistake was the 
correct position. As such, this service would not usually ask a lender to repay monies that 
were genuinely owning because of a mistake like the one that occurred in this case. Just Retirement sent Mrs Ts IFA a correctly calculated figure for redeeming her mortgage in 
July 2017. It would appear that this was when she was making her plans to move as her new 
purchase completed just over two months later. This means that she was fully aware she 
would need to pay Just Retirement in the region of £180,000 and what this would mean in 
relation to how much she had available to spend on a new property. It is clear her plans 
were made on that basis. A solicitor will only request a redemption statement when the sale 
of a property has been agreed.
As such, I dont think Mrs T was anticipating having more money in her bank account until 
less than three weeks before completion of the sale/purchase, and that is assuming her 
solicitor told her the redemption statement was showing a lower figure than anticipated. I 
havent seen any evidence of whether the solicitor passed this information on to Mrs T, so it 
may have been on the day of completion that she was made aware she was getting more 
money that expected. However, even if the redemption figure had been passed on, I think 
Mrs T would reasonably have been surprised at it being so much lower than expected. It 
may have caused confusion, but it seems unlikely it would have made any difference to her 
plans at that point. 
That said, whether it was three weeks earlier or on the day of completion, being told a few 
days later she had to return over £114,000 to her solicitors because a mistake had been 
made, must have been a very great disappointment. Having considered the matter carefully, 
I agree that £500 is an appropriate sum to compensate Mrs T in the circumstances. 
I note that Mrs Ts IFA has indicated that Mrs T didnt have the money to redeem the full 
mortgage amount and that she hadnt completed her purchase. It has also been indicated 
that in order to do so, she needed to borrow the additional funds and is now in debt. 
However, public record of her house purchase indicates it went through on the same day 
has her purchase. And as I have said above, it would appear that the purchase was planned 
using a redemption figure of in the region of £180,000, so it would seem unlikely that she 
had to borrow in order to pay the remaining balance of the mortgage. Mrs T was invited to 
provide evidence of financial loss due to having relied on the incorrect redemption statement 
given to the solicitor, but none has been provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Just Retirement Limited to pay 
Mrs T a total sum of £500 for any inconvenience and upset its error caused her.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my 
decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman