DRN-1515628
 
The complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.  
What happened
This complaint is about 43 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr S between May 2016 and 
July 2019. Mr S borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £250 to be repaid in six 
monthly instalments. The loans often overlapped so that Mr S had to make more than one 
repayment each month. There were no significant breaks in the chain of lending over three 
years. From what I can see, Mr S repaid all his loans.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 5 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and it offered to uphold Mr Ss complaint from 
loan 32 onwards. But Mr S was unhappy with this and so the complaint was passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Sunny asked Mr S for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr S said his monthly income was £2,000 for loans 1 to 33 and more thereafter. He 
said his monthly outgoings ranged between about £669 and £2,300. From what I can see, 
there was nothing adverse in Sunnys credit checks that should have prompted further 
checks. 
I think these checks went far enough for loans one to four. For loans one to four, given the 
loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances at the time and his history 
with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the 
information Mr S provided or the information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr S was saying. These loans looked 
affordable for Mr S, so I cant say Sunny was wrong to have provided them.
But I think Sunny should have made better checks from loan five. I think Sunny should then 
have verified what Mr S had told it to ensure that he could sustainably repay his loans. 
Mr S had taken and repaid four loans in quick succession and then asked for loan five within 
five months. As our adjudicator explained, the short gaps between the loans were signs that 
Mr S was struggling to repay some of his previous loans. So I think Sunny should have 
realised that Mr S would be unable to sustainably repay loan five, or any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
This was the fifth time Mr S had borrowed a large sum in seven months and the gaps 
between the loans were short, suggesting a pattern of dependency. 
From loan seven onwards Mr S was provided with a new loan within days or weeks 
of settling a previous one, or whilst previous loans were still running. So Sunny ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ss 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 43 was 
taken out over three years after Mr Ss first. And the amount he owed at any one time 
didnt significantly decrease. Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr S lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 43 and I think Sunny should put things 
right.  
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr S, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 5 to 43;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Ss credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 to 43 should be removed from Mr 
Ss credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr S 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman