DRN-4449414
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled a claim she made 
under her home insurance policy for water damage.
Reference to Fairmead includes agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Ms S bought a home and took out insurance for it with Fairmead in December 2021. 
In May 2022 she noticed the kitchen floor was soft. She lifted it and discovered the 
floorboards and joists were rotten. She got in touch with Fairmead to make a claim.
Fairmead had the damage inspected and said the problem was severe historic damp 
 which wasnt covered by the policy.
Ms S took advice from a company, P, who said water may have escaped from the 
washing machine or sink. Fairmead inspected the damage again, but didnt find 
evidence of a leak, and maintained the claim should be declined. Ms S complained.
Fairmead didnt change its position, so Ms S referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. He thought the damage had 
likely been caused gradually given all three inspections had reached that view. But 
he didnt think Ms S could have been aware of that, given the damage was under the 
floor. As a result, he said it would be fair for Fairmead to accept the claim, source 
and repair the leak, and pay £300 compensation.
Both parties agreed and the complaint was resolved in January 2023.
Fairmead appointed a leak detection company. They identified a leak on the 
incoming water main. Fairmead also appointed A, a drainage company. A identified a 
separate problem with a gully, which they repaired in February. And they carried out 
work to reroute the water main pipe in April. 
Ms S reported two problems following As gully repair. Firstly, she said A had 
damaged air bricks and foam was coming out of them where it hadnt before. A said 
its work didnt impact the bricks and the foam was put in place when the bricks were 
installed. Secondly, she said water was leaking into the kitchen subfloor. A said it 
wasnt coming from the drainage system. Ms S complained.
Fairmead said A hadnt caused any damage to the bricks or the water problem in the 
subfloor. Ms S referred her complaint to this Service.
In the meantime, the claim continued. Fairmead paid around £6,000 to settle it, 
including the cost of building repairs and a temporary kitchen for the duration of 
repairs. As water continued to leak into the kitchen subfloor, Fairmead appointed C, 
another drainage company. C didnt find any leaks near the kitchen.
Fairmead appointed a surveyor to inspect the problem. They said the main cause of 
the dampness was an inherent building defect  an extensively deteriorated damp 
proof course. As a result, Fairmead thought its payment to settle the claim was fair, 
and it didnt agree to extend the temporary kitchen further.
Ms S took further advice from P. It said the original damp proofing was effective and 
the problem had been caused by water over a prolonged period of time. It didnt 
comment on the work carried out by A or say where the water was coming from.
Our investigator thought Fairmead should carry out further investigation into the 
source of the water and pay £300 compensation. Neither party agreed. Ms S didnt 
think this went far enough to put things right. And Fairmead thought it had reached a 
fair position with the claim already. So the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by flood and/or an escape of water from pipes and 
the like. Fairmead has accepted the claim on the basis that some of the water 
damage has been caused by leaks from the water main pipe and gully. As a result, 
its made a payment for damage to the kitchen.
Ms S says she cant get the kitchen damage repaired whilst water enters the 
subfloor. I understand it continues to do so from time to time and as recently as last 
week. She would like Fairmead to find and resolve the water source so that she can 
have the kitchen repaired.
Fairmead says its carried out repairs to resolve problems with the water leaks. And 
subsequent drain testing hasnt found any ongoing leaks. Ms S hasnt provided 
evidence to challenge this position. Based on the comments of its surveyor, 
Fairmead says water continues to enter the subfloor due to inadequate damp 
proofing. Ms S has provided evidence from P to challenge this position.
Ive read the comments of both the surveyor and P carefully. Having done so, Im 
more persuaded by what the surveyor has said. Their reports are more thoroughly 
explained and are accompanied by photos which clearly support their findings. The 
surveyor agrees with P in so far as some damp proofing is present and effective. But 
they say, and have shown, that the damp proofing at subfloor level has deteriorated 
significantly. As a result, theres effectively no barrier to stop underground moisture 
making its way into the subfloor. There, in an enclosed space, water has collected 
and caused rot. The surveyor notes this is likely to have been going on for a long 
period of time, given the extent of damage and the presence of a car jack and other 
unconventional repairs to the timber joists below the floor.
Im not satisfied damage caused in this way is covered by the policy. Its clearly not 
an escape of water from a pipe or similar. And Im not persuaded it amounts to flood. So, whilst its not something Ms S could have known about, neither is it something 
covered by her home insurance policy. Fairmead has previously let her know about 
potential options for exploring liability for the problem further.
Ms S hasnt complained about Fairmeads cash settlement offer itself. So I havent 
considered it. But if she doesnt think its a fair reflection of the costs involved in 
repairing the damage caused by the water leaks  and a temporary kitchen for the 
duration of those repairs only  then shes entitled to take that up with Fairmead.
Since Ms S complaint was made earlier this year, the drain testing and the 
surveyors report have shown A didnt cause any further leaks during its repairs. And 
I havent seen any evidence to show it damaged the air bricks. So I dont think 
Fairmead needs to do anything further on these points.
Although Im satisfied Fairmead has reached a fair position with the claim, Im not 
satisfied it did so as quickly as it ought to have done.
After the previous complaint was resolved in January 2023, Fairmead took steps to 
identify and repair the leaks. That was completed in April 2023. But despite Ms S 
raising concerns about the continued water problems, it took until August 2023 for a 
surveyors report to be carried out. Not all of the intervening time is something I can 
hold Fairmead responsible for. But looking through the claim notes, there were 
avoidable delays. Fairmead appointed numerous parties to handle the claim and 
itself had several different members of staff contributing to the claims. As a result, it 
was often unclear which party was expected to take the next step and what that step 
was. As a result, the claim stalled.
During that time, Ms S was having to use a temporary kitchen, which would have 
been inconvenient. It would also have been frustrating waiting to find out if and when 
Fairmead would resolve the water problem. But once Fairmead had the surveyors 
report and clarified it wouldnt take any further steps with the water problem, having 
already paid the cash settlement, I dont think it was responsible for any distress and 
inconvenience Ms S suffered afterward. Thats an unfortunate consequence of the 
damp proofing problem, which I cant hold against Fairmead.
I also note A accepts it left a lot of mess after it carried out repairs  and was slow to 
tidy it up after Ms S asked it to. That would have added to her frustration.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied £300 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. This is separate and in addition to the £300 Fairmead paid for 
the previous complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead didnt challenge my provisional decision.
Ms S provided further comments and information for me to consider. Whilst Ive read and 
considered everything shes said, Ill only respond to the points I think are relevant to 
explaining the outcome of the complaint. Ill take each in turn.
I think Ms S main point is that there may be an ongoing leak still. She says her water bills are higher than they ought to be. And she remains concerned that As work has 
caused a leak. She says water is entering her home where that work was carried out.
To recap, after A carried out work, it said it hadnt caused any damage and/or leaks. 
C inspected the area and didnt find any problems. And the surveyor said the water 
was the result of the damp proof course being defective  not a leak. And whilst P 
had said they thought at least some of the damp proof course was effective, they 
hadnt said where the water was coming from. Taking this all into account, I was 
satisfied there was no evidence to show A had caused damage and/or a leak  or 
that the water had come from any leak which might be covered by the policy.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms S has provided a letter from her local 
water company. It says her meter readings are higher than what would be typically 
expected for her living arrangements. I can understand why this may cause her 
concern. But Im not persuaded it outweighs the evidence noted in the previous bullet 
point. There could be a number of reasons for higher than expected readings. So 
unless a leak were found, Im not satisfied this changes my earlier findings.
Ms S provided further comments from P. It said: in our opinion the cause of the 
decay has been evaporation from the damp oversite caused we understand by a 
defective stop tap. This is similar to what it said in a previous report: we understand 
from [Ms S] that following a faulty stop tap and some drainage issues this area has 
been flooded in the past. We understand these defects have been repaired. In 
summary, P has said there were water leaks, they caused the problem, and theyve 
since been repaired. That matches Fairmeads position. P hasnt said the leaks 
remain outstanding and/or that A caused damage and/or a further leak. So Im not 
satisfied the information from P challenges Fairmeads position on this point.
Ms S also provided a quote from a drainage company to investigate the matter. Shes 
entitled to pay for that. And if it reveals any leaks and/or a suggestion A caused a 
problem, shes welcome to share that with Fairmead for it to consider further. But as 
it stands, the quote doesnt provide any material information, so theres nothing for 
me to consider. And given the investigations Fairmead has carried out so far, Im not 
persuaded it needs to pay for more at this time.
Ms S said she was only given a temporary kitchen intermittently and faced costs for 
laundry whilst her kitchen was unavailable.
The kitchen floor was removed in late March. Prior to that time, I understand the 
kitchen could be used as normal. Shortly before the floor was removed, Fairmead 
paid for Ms S to have a temporary kitchen. It remained with her until early May. By 
that time, Fairmead had paid to settle the claim, resolved the leaks through As work, 
and C hadnt found any problems. So it had done everything it needed to under the 
claim, leaving Ms S to take the next steps.
When Ms S later reiterated her concerns that A had caused a leak, Fairmead 
reinstated the temporary kitchen whilst it looked into things. After the surveyor said 
the water was the result of the damp proof course and not a leak, Fairmead had 
investigated Ms S concerns, so it withdrew the temporary kitchen again.
Overall, that means Fairmead provided a temporary kitchen when Ms S was unable 
to use hers as normal and whilst the claim was being investigated. When the claim 
was settled and the investigations had been completed, Fairmead withdrew the 
temporary kitchen. In these circumstances, Im satisfied Fairmead acted reasonably.If Ms S has laundry or other costs, whilst the claim was being investigated, as a 
result of being unable to use the kitchen as usual, shes entitled to share these with 
Fairmead and Id expect it to consider the matter further.
Ms S says she did raise a concern about the settlement Fairmead paid her. I can see 
it made an initial offer and she challenged it. After that, it increased the offer and paid 
her nearly £6,000. I havent seen any evidence that after she received the increased 
offer, she complained about it to Fairmead. Thats why I said she hadnt complained 
about Fairmeads cash settlement offer itself  and why I didnt consider it. But if she 
doesnt think its a fair reflection of the costs involved in repairing the damage caused 
by the water leaks  and a temporary kitchen for the duration of those repairs only  
then shes entitled to take that up with Fairmead.
Ms S has reiterated that shes had a bad experience during the claim. Some of that I 
think was Fairmeads fault, which is why Ill require it to pay her compensation. In 
particular, there were avoidable delays, communication problems  and the mess left 
by A after its repairs, which took too long to be tidied up.
Ms S says A verbally abused her by shouting at her and it wasnt prepared to tidy up 
the mess. On the other hand, A says Ms S was rude to them, so it refused to work in 
those conditions. This was a verbal exchange, without any objective evidence of it. 
So I dont think it would be fair for me to make a finding about it either way.
I must take into account that much of Ms S bad experience wasnt caused by 
Fairmead  its not responsible for the original leaks, the damp proof problem or any 
of the distress thats flowed from these things. So whilst I can appreciate Ms S 
distress and inconvenience at finding a significant problem under her kitchen, some 
of which isnt covered by her policy, thats not something I can hold against 
Fairmead. Thats reflected in the compensation amount.
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Fairmead has resolved all 
the water leaks from pipes. Its paid Ms S a sum of money to repair the damage 
caused by those leaks. Any remaining water ingress is the result of a damp proof 
problem, rather than a leak, and thats not covered by the policy. So I dont think 
Fairmead needs to do anything further about the claim at this time. It need only pay 
compensation for the way it handled the claim.
However, if Ms S shares further evidence with Fairmead, I would expect it to consider 
that information carefully and decide whether that changes its position.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman