DRN-4287682
The complaint
Mr M complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says he was in a lot of debt at the time of the loan and proper checks would have 
shown he shouldnt have been lent the loan.
What happened
118 118 Money agreed to lend Mr M a loan in January 2022, the loan was for £2,000 with 36 
monthly repayments of £97.96. When Mr M complained to the business, it didnt uphold his 
complaint and so he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought 118 118 Money didnt 
irresponsibly lend to Mr M. Mr M disagreed, he says proper checks by 118 118 Money would 
have shown he was in a debt spiral.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loan was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key thing 
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including things such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was 
due to be repaid. A business should also consider and react appropriately to what it knew 
about the consumer at the time it made its lending decision.
118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that when Mr M applied for the loan, it asked 
him about his monthly income, living costs and credit commitments. Mr M declared his 
income as £3,066, his living costs as £1,460 and his credit commitments as £450.
118 118 Money also searched Mr Ms credit file, the results of those checks showed Mr M 
had seven active accounts, three of which had outstanding balances on them. The credit file 
showed Mr M had two loans with monthly repayment of around £498 and a credit card that 
was over its limit. The repayment history on the credit card showed Mr M had mostly repaid 
more than the minimum each month and he hadnt been over his credit limit for a sustained 
period. The balance on his credit card was around £933, so if Mr M paid 10% monthly 
towards his credit card, thatll increase his credit commitments by around £93.
This was Mr Ms first loan with 118 118 Money, the loan repayment was quite small 
compared to his income, the information Mr M provided on his application suggested that he 
had enough disposable income to repay the loan over its term. The information 118 118 
Money found from its search into Mr Ms credit file didnt show Mr M was in debt spiral. 
I appreciate Mr M says he had three loans at the time, but the search 118 118 Money carried 
out only showed he had two active loans.
I think 118 118 Moneys checks went far enough in the circumstances of this case and those 
checks show Mr M had sufficient disposable income to repay his loan without suffering 
undue financial detriment. Mr Ms monthly expenses including his credit commitments were 
around £2,051 and when compared to his income of £3,066, he had around £1,000 of 
disposable income which was sufficient to repay his loan.
Im not persuaded there was anything within the results of 118 118 Moneys checks that 
should have prompted it to check Mr Ms bank statements in the circumstances of this case.
Based on above, I dont think 118 118 Money has done anything wrong as it wasnt 
unreasonable to lend in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman