DRN-3107341
The complaint
Miss B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid have irresponsibly lent to her and have
provided poor account management.  
What happened
Miss B applied for a Fluid credit card on 11 December 2019. Fluid accepted her application
and issued a credit limit of £900. Miss B says that this credit limit was too high and she
struggled to make her payments, often resulting in her account being over its credit limit and
paying high interest rates. She notified Fluid of her financial difficulties and a repayment plan
was set up.
Miss B complained to Fluid. They did not uphold her complaint. Fluid said that they had
completed a credit check and this had showed she had a defaulted account 11 months prior
to the application and a public record (such as a bankruptcy or county court judgment or
other public record of a debt) which was 70 months ago, but her payments on her other
credit agreements were up to date. Fluid also said that Miss B had declared she was
working and had documented her total unsecured borrowings and Fluid accepted her
application. They said that there was no reason to believe the borrowing would be
unaffordable based on the information they had when they accepted the application. As a
goodwill gesture, Fluid said they refunded the interest and fees from her last statement of
£71.36.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service. Since her final response from Fluid she said
that they had sent her a default notice, even though she had been on a payment
arrangement with them. She said that she wants Fluid to apologise to her, refund all of the
fees, charges and interest, award her compensation and remove any adverse credit data
theyve registered with the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. He said that the checks Fluid completed
were proportionate to her income and the credit limit that was issued. Our investigator felt
Fluid had treated her fairly and had arranged a repayment plan with her so he didnt think
any compensation should be paid. Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to review her
complaint. She also said that she had recently received a letter from Fluid informing her that
they are going to register details of the default with credit reference agencies, despite her
making a payment arrangement with them.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I will only be able to look at the merits of this individual complaint that Miss B brought to our
service about Fluids decision to lend to her here. And as such I wont comment on issues
that have risen recently such as her recent letter from Fluid informing her that they are going
to register details of the default with credit reference agencies, despite her making a
payment arrangement with them. Miss B will be able to raise a separate complaint for these
issues if she wishes to do so.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Miss B, Fluid needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks Fluid said they did prior to accepting Miss Bs application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Miss B
had gave them, such as being self employed, earnings of £14,500 and they looked at the
information on her credit file. Fluid said that Miss Bs credit file showed she had external
unsecured outstanding debt of £800.
But thats not all the credit file showed. It showed that Miss B had defaulted in the past and
had a public record. The most recent default was 11 months ago and the public record was
70 months ago. So Fluid would have been aware that Miss B had previously not maintained
her agreements. But the data also showed she had no accounts in arrears, no repayment
plans and that the adverse credit data was at least eleven months old.
So Ive considered if the checks that Fluid carried out were proportionate to the level of credit
that Miss B was given. And despite the credit limit not being high in relation to Miss Bs
unverified income, Im persuaded there are other factors which should have persuaded Fluid
to make further checks and Ill explain why below.
Fluids data shows that Miss B has a high indebtedness and low income. Miss Bs
employment status was showing as self employed but for a null time period. So Im
persuaded that given Miss Bs financial difficulties earlier in the year when an account
defaulted and the uncertainty of time she had been self employed, then Fluid should have
made further checks as part of a proportionate check on Miss Bs individual circumstances to
see if the credit limit they intended to approve would be sustainable for Miss B.
I think these factors should have prompted some further questions or checks from Fluid.
Fluid will have also seen that she had defaulted on an agreement which was less than a
quarter of the credit Fluid were initially going to offer her, so they should have carried out
further checks to see if she had the affordability to manage a £900 credit limit. Miss Bs
credit file also showed that a credit card with a third party provider started the day before her
Fluid credit card started and a mail order agreement started the same day as her Fluid credit
card  although it is unlikely that Fluid would have been able to see this information when
they completed their checks.
I asked Miss B to send me her credit file so I could see how she had managed her accounts.
Im persuaded that as a proportionate check, based on the issues which Ive previously
mentioned that this is something Fluid should have done to get a better understanding of
how Miss B managed her accounts. Miss Bs credit file shows that in 2019, the year her
account was approved, there were several indicators that Miss B may not be able to sustain
payments to a Fluid credit card. While Miss B did bring her accounts back in order, her credit
file also reflected that at various points during 2019 she had:A credit card which she was in arrears by three payments
A loan which she was in arrears by six payments
A telecommunications agreement which she was in arrears by three payments
A mail order agreement which she was in arrears by five payments
A credit card which she was in arrears by six payments
A mail order agreement which she was in arrears by six payments then made an
arrangement to pay with the company
A telecommunications account which defaulted
So I asked Miss B about her financial circumstances at the time she was accepted for her
Fluid credit card. This is a step that Im persuaded that Fluid should have done as part of a
proportionate check when there appeared to be inconsistencies or potential issues showing
on the data. Miss B confirmed that due to a family bereavement she received an inheritance
in 2019. So Im persuaded that because she received lump sums of money that she was
able to bring all of the aforementioned accounts up to date, and that is why they showed as
being up to date from Fluids checks and not because they were affordable for her. So by
Fluid granting a credit limit which was more than the total of her unsecured debt she had
before she was accepted for the Fluid credit card. then Im persuaded that this added to her
financial difficulty.
I asked Miss B further details about her personal circumstances at the time of the
application, which Im persuaded that Fluid shouldve done as part of a proportionate check.
This led to Miss B providing her bank statements leading up to the application date. Even by
looking at Miss Bs November statement, the month before she was accepted for the Fluid
credit card, her bank statement showed that she didnt have enough money to pay a direct
debit mid November, and later on in the month she had a direct debit returned. Miss Bs
December statements show that the week before she was approved for the Fluid credit card,
she had borrowed £1,500 from a third party company and on the day she applied for the
Fluid credit card she was overdrawn, despite her account not having an overdraft.
So in light of Miss Bs previous credit issues, then Im persuaded that as part of a
proportionate check to validate Miss Bs income and expenditure then Fluid should have
requested information from Miss B to discuss her finances, for example, one of the things
they could have requested were her recent bank statements. So Im persuaded that had
Fluid looked at her bank statements for example as part of a proportionate check at the
application stage then they shouldnt have approved her application without discussing her
finances first.
Then Im satisfied it would have come to light that Miss B had only recently been self
employed (October 2019), the previous balances on her third party accounts were only
brought up to date through the inheritance she received and that she had recently borrowed
£1,500 from a third party company and applied  and was accepted for a credit card/mail
order credit with third party companies. I then think it would be irresponsible for Fluid to
approve a £900 credit limit in light of these circumstances. So it follows I will be asking Fluid
to put things right.
Ive also considered what Miss B has said about Fluid sending her a default notice in March
2021, shortly after she raised her irresponsible lending complaint with Fluid. I know she
thinks this seems deliberate. But Ive seen no evidence of this. As Miss B hadnt been able
to make her contractual monthly payment for a number of months, then Fluid are able to
issue a default notice even if there is an arrangement in place as the arrears have built up
over a prolonged period. So Im not persuaded theyve made an error here.
Ive considered how to put things right for Miss B. She is looking for Fluid to refund all of hercharges, fees and interest, remove any adverse credit information that Fluid has reported
and give her additional compensation. I do think it is fair that Fluid remove any fees, charges
and any adverse credit information they reported to any credit reference agencies. But Im
not persuaded that any additional compensation should be provided. I say this as my
provisional decision would put her back in the same position she would have been in had
Fluid not accepted her application. While Miss B shouldnt have been lent this money  it
remains that she did spend it. So its difficult for me to say that this has caused her distress
or inconvenience in a way thatd be fair for me to tell Fluid to pay compensation for.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
Decision. Fluid said that in respect of credit file removal, a refund of interest, charges and 
fees would not clear the balance and Ms B has not repaid purchases that she has had the 
benefit of. They said that Miss B is currently on a £5 per month repayment plan and if she 
wants to pay that in full then they can arrange for the adverse information to be removed, but 
if she cant pay in full and wants to continue with the plan, the credit information should 
remain because it is an accurate reflection of how she is maintaining payments on a valid 
outstanding balance.
Miss B accepted my provisional decision but asked a number of questions. In summary she 
asked if I could confirm the refunds apply to all fees, charges and interest that hadnt been 
reversed already for the duration of the account. She also asked if I would be asking Fluid to 
remove all the payments shes made for the duration of the account. Miss B asked if any 
amounts which exceed the £900 credit limit given to her are the amounts which will be 
refunded along with interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they 
were made to the date of settlement (which would also include fees and charges). Finally, 
Miss B asked if the removal of any adverse data from her credit files includes the removal of 
her default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Fluid have said regarding removing the adverse credit information if 
Miss B does not pay off the full outstanding balance once they have refunded any interest, 
charges and fees that they havent already refunded. But my decision here was that Fluid 
should not have lent to Miss B originally. Had they not lent to her, no data would be showing 
on Miss Bs credit file from Fluid  which includes adverse information that would 
disadvantage her. My decision here is to ensure that Miss B isnt disadvantaged by Fluids 
choice to lend to her  and that includes any adverse impact on her credit file. But when 
looking at whats fair from both sides, I think its fair that Miss B repays Fluid anything shes 
borrowed from them. How any outstanding amounts are managed moving forward will be a 
matter for Fluid and Miss B to discuss and agree together. So Im satisfied that as part of my 
final decision, Fluid should still remove any adverse information, including the default, from 
Miss Bs credit file.
As touched on above, I must make it clear to Miss B that as shes had the benefit of 
spending on the credit card, it is only fair that she pays all of this money back to Fluid, even 
if she spent more than the credit limit  but this will be without paying interest, charges or 
fees on the outstanding balance after Fluid have refunded any fees, charges and interest 
that has already been paid. So if there is an outstanding balance remaining after her 
payments, interest, fees and charges have been removed from the total money shes spent 
then she will still need to maintain any arrangement to pay this money back to Fluid.I can confirm to Miss B that the removal of the interest, fees, charges and repayments would 
be from the account opening. The 8% per year simple interest paid to her would only apply if 
she had paid more to the balance than the total of the repayments, interest and charges that 
were applied. Indications from Fluid is that there is still likely to be a balance outstanding 
once these are refunded and if thats the case, then this interest wont be relevant, but she 
would be able to get this calculation directly from Fluid. 
  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intended to ask NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid to remove
interest charged, any late payment or over limit fees (which they havent done so already)
and the payments Miss B made on the account. Any extra that was paid should be treated
as overpayments and refunded to Miss B with interest added at 8% per year simple on any
overpayments, if there were any, from the date they were made to the date of settlement.
They should also remove any adverse credit information for the Fluid credit card from Miss
Bs credit file. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid should remove interest charged, any 
late payment or over limit fees (which they havent done so already) and the payments Miss 
B made on the account. Any extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments and 
refunded to Miss B with interest added at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if there 
were any, from the date they were made to the date of settlement. They should also remove 
any adverse credit information for the Fluid credit card from Miss Bs credit file. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman