DRN-3903848
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on a taxi 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Haven, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold Haven responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and complaint is a car, first registered in about 2016. Mrs J 
wanted to insure the car for use as a taxi. For the year from mid-October 2021, she had it 
insured on a comprehensive taxi policy with Haven.
On 7 December 2021, Mrs J reported to Haven that the taxi had suffered a fire in the engine 
compartment. On 10 December 2021, Haven collected the taxi. On 17 December 2021, 
Haven instructed an engineer to inspect the taxi.
On 21 December 2021, the engineer inspected the taxi. On 23 December 2021, the 
engineer produced an inspection report. It said that there was no evidence of any obvious 
flame damage to the engine and parts or the bonnet sound deadening pad and there was 
no obvious wiring damage which could have caught fire.
On 12 January 2022, Haven told Mrs J that the engineer had inspected the taxi and Haven 
declined the claim. 
On 13 January 2022, Mrs J collected the taxi and took it to a garage franchised by its 
manufacturer. By 27 January 2022, the garage had done repairs to the taxi. Its invoice was 
for about £3,900.00 and mentioned fire damage. Mrs J complained to Haven that it should 
reimburse the cost of the repairs.
By a final response dated late May 2022, Haven maintained that there had been no flame 
damage. Haven said that mechanical failure had melted the wiring loom which in turn 
affected the sensors.
Mrs J asked us to investigate.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that it 
was fair and reasonable for Haven to rely on the independent engineers report to decline 
the claim for fire damage. But he thought that the service could have been better, with 
avoidable delays before Mrs J was able to return to work as a taxi driver.
He recommended that Haven should pay £200.00 for distress and inconvenience because of 
the delays and the service.
Haven agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mrs J disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Haven did not provide enough evidence to decline her claim.
Her costs and losses were significantly greater than Haven is offering.
If Haven had proceeded with the claim in their available time (regardless of the 
outcome) and released the car to her earlier, her use of the taxi and her income 
would not have been affected in the busiest time of the year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I would expect, the policy covered fire damage, but it excluded the following:
Loss of or damage to Your Taxi as a result of mechanical, electrical, electronic, 
computer or software breakdowns, failures, faults or breakages.
From the reports, photographs and invoice, I accept that in December 2021 and January 
2022, there was damage to the wiring. And on balance, Im persuaded that it had been 
damaged by fire. 
However, I consider that Haven has done enough to show that the damage to the taxi had 
been the result of mechanical failure. So I dont consider that Haven acted unfairly in 
declining the claim.
The invoice included replacing wiring and the timing belt and sensors. Whilst Mrs J is about 
£3,900.00 out of pocket, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to reimburse her.
The claim was bound to take some time. However, there were times when Haven didnt 
progress the claim as quickly as it shouldve done. In particular, there were delays in 
arranging the inspection and  although she was chasing for updates  further delays in 
letting Mrs J know that Haven was declining her claim.
I accept that Mrs J wasnt able to drive the taxi for much of December 2021 and January 
2022. However, the taxi was at the garage from about 13 January to 27 January 2022, a 
period of about two weeks. So, even if Haven had declined the claim by say 13 December 
2021, Im not persuaded that Mrs J wouldve been able to get the taxi repaired in time to 
drive it in the busy run-up to the holiday period.
In other words, it was the breakdown rather than Haven that caused most of Mrs Js loss of 
loss of earnings from the use of the taxi. In any event, I consider that Mrs J has fallen short 
of showing that Haven caused a measurable loss of earnings.
Putting things right
Overall, I consider that the delays and other shortcomings in Havens service caused Mrs J 
extra inconvenience and upset at an already difficult time for her. I conclude that £200.00 is 
fair and reasonable compensation for this.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman