DRN-2851364
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) dealt with refunds to 
her credit card, following fraudulent activity on her account.
  
What happened
Mrs W has a credit card account with Tesco. In June 2020, there were some fraudulent 
transactions on the account. So Tesco cancelled Mrs Ws credit card and issued a new one.
The fraudulent transactions were refunded by the relevant retailers. But some of them were 
credited to her old card number and werent moved across to the new card number, so they 
didnt show up on Mrs Ws account. In addition, when Mrs W called Tesco in July 2020, the 
adviser she spoke to couldnt locate two of the refunds. That was because they had been 
applied to the old card, but the adviser didnt check against the old card number.
Mrs W complained and Tesco issued their final response in August 2020. They apologised 
and said the adviser should have been able to locate the refunds. They moved the refunds 
across from the old card number to the new one, so that they reflected on Mrs Ws balance. 
Tesco upheld Mrs Ws complaint and credited her account with £75 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shed experienced. Shortly afterwards, following further contact 
from Mrs W, Tesco refunded interest which had been applied to her account in July and 
August 2020.
In October 2020, some more fraudulent transactions were refunded to Mrs W. These refunds 
were applied to Mrs Ws old card number and didnt appear on her account. She contacted 
Tesco again to trace these refunds and made another complaint. Mrs W asked Tesco to 
ensure that any refunds to the old card number are moved across to her new card. 
Tesco said in response that retailers make refunds to the original card number, which can 
then be moved across to Mrs Ws new card. They identified two refunds which had been 
made to the old card in October 2020 and said theyd placed these in a queue to be 
manually transferred to the new card, which would take 2-3 working days. Tesco didnt 
uphold this complaint as they said that they hadnt made any mistakes. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with Tescos response, so she came to this service. She says that, 
because the refunds didnt appear on her account, she had to spend time searching for them 
on her statements and contacting Tesco to check whether refunds had been received and 
transferred over to the new card. She says Tesco should have transferred the refunds 
automatically, straight away, without her having to contact them. And she says it wasnt fair 
for Tesco to say they hadnt made a mistake the second time, when the same thing had 
happened as before. She says theres clearly an issue with refunds being posted to her 
account.
Tesco say that retailers can only refund payments to the card number which was used to 
make the purchase. So the refunds were made to Mrs Ws old card. Tesco say their system 
doesnt have a way of transferring the refunds over to the new card number automatically  it 
has to be done manually by a member of staff. They say they upheld the first complaint 
because, when Mrs W called to query some refunds she was expecting, the advisor missed 
the fact that she had a cancelled card and that refunds had gone there. They say they didnt 
uphold the second complaint because they dont have any control over the fact that refunds 
are made to the old card number, so they couldnt have done anything differently.
Our investigator didnt think Tesco had made it clear to Mrs W that their process meant she 
would need to call them each time there was a refund so that it could be manually 
transferred to her new card. He recommended that Tesco pay further compensation of £75. 
But Tesco didnt agree. They say that, having been told that refunds would be processed to 
the old card number, Mrs W ought reasonably to have been aware that this would continue 
to happen. They say that, as she was told the transfer of refunds to the new card was a 
manual process, she couldnt expect this to happen automatically. Tesco didnt think any 
further compensation was warranted here, so they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Tescos response to the first complaint (in August 2020) confirmed the following:
that Tescos adviser told Mrs W, on 14 June 2020, that she would receive the refunds 
within 14-20 days;
that Tesco had refunded a payment (relating to a merchant which Ill call E) on to Mrs 
Ws old credit card number and hadnt moved it across to her new card number  
they apologised for missing this;
that all the fraudulent transactions had been refunded to Mrs Ws account and would 
show on her July statement;
that refunds wont always come through straight away and clearing timescales differ 
depending on the retailer;
that, once Tesco receive a refund, its posted to the account straight away;
that their adviser hadnt been able to find two refunds when Mrs W called on 9 July, 
because they were on her old card;
that those two refunds had been moved across to the new card which would take 2-3 
working days as it had to be manually keyed by the Payments Team; and
that the complaint was upheld because Tesco hadnt acted fairly.
Nowhere in this letter did Tesco explain that all the refunds would be made to the original 
card number. Instead, I think the letter implies that it was a mistake that the refunds were 
applied against the old card and suggests that this was done by Tesco (We refunded this on 
your old credit card number). 
Nor did the letter explain that every refund has to be manually moved across to the new 
number. It said that two specific refunds had been manually transferred. But its not clear 
that this is the process for all refunds coming in. The letter said: Once we receive a refund 
its posted to the account straight away. I think its fair to say that suggests Tesco has a 
system in place for picking up on refunds coming in and ensuring they credit Mrs Ws 
account straight away.But this isnt the case. Refunds to the old card number arent posted to the account. Its not 
clear where theyre held when they first come in. But Tesco now say that, as they dont know 
when a refund is coming in, Mrs W has to contact them and ask them to check. They will 
then move it across to her new card manually. This means that Mrs W doesnt get the 
benefit of the refunds as soon as they arrive.  That could potentially have adverse 
implications for her account, which I dont think would be fair. Here, Im not aware of an 
adverse impact on the account. But I do find that the information in Tescos August response 
letter was inaccurate.
In light of what was said in that letter, I think it was reasonable for Mrs W to think that all the 
refunds had been processed and / or that any further refunds would credit her account 
without her needing to do anything. But that isnt what happened in reality. In October 2020, 
she had to ask Tesco to move further refunds across from the old card to the new one.
In Tescos response to the second complaint (in November 2020), they said that retailers 
make refunds to the original card number, which can then be moved to the new card. This 
wasnt explained in the first letter. Even if its clear from the November letter that all refunds 
will be made to the old card, I dont think its clear that Tesco arent alerted when a refund is 
made to the old card. Nor is it made clear that Tescos system cant move the funds across 
automatically. The letter says that the two latest refunds have been moved across manually. 
But this could simply be because theyd been missed and the manual transfer was done as a 
response to the complaint. Its not clear that this will have to be done manually every time 
and only after Mrs W has alerted Tesco to the fact that a refund might have been made to 
her old card.
Looking at the response letters, I can understand why it wasnt clear to Mrs W why her first 
complaint was upheld but the second was rejected. From her point of view the issue was the 
same both times.
Tesco have now explained that they have no control over refunds being made to the old card 
number and that their system cant move the funds across automatically. They realise its 
frustrating for Mrs W to have to contact them to move the funds across. But, as they dont 
know when a refund is coming in and the transfer has to be completed manually, they say 
they cant do anything differently. Im not going to ask them to change their system or 
procedures as thats not within my remit. 
But I agree with our investigator that Tesco need to pay Mrs W some further compensation 
here. Thats because I dont think they provided accurate information in response to her first 
complaint. And I dont think they made it clear how they would handle future refunds or what 
Mrs W needed to do to ensure they credited her account. I think that caused unnecessary 
confusion, frustration and inconvenience for Mrs W. I think further compensation of £75 
would be fair here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay 
Mrs W further compensation of £75.00.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman