DRN-3859081
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy HCC International Insurance Company Plc (HCC) declined a third-party 
claim he made, under the Third Parties (Rights against Insurers) Act 2010 (the 2010 Act), in 
respect of a policy taken out by a company, B. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr D contracted with B to carry out work at his property. There were issues 
with the work which B said it would rectify and didnt. Mr D took legal action and obtained a 
judgement against B in September 2021 which awarded him around £60,000. However, by 
then B had been dissolved and the award wasnt paid. 
Mr D sought to claim on the Tradesman and Contractor policy B held with HCC using rights 
under the 2010 Act. HCC said contract works werent covered by the policy and in addition 
the policy terms as they relate to notification hadnt been met. Those issues were previously 
considered by our service and Mr D accepted our investigators view that the claim had been 
fairly turned down. 
Subsequently Mr D provided further evidence of a call he had with a representative of HCC 
in which he said claim notification had been provided. He also argued parts of his claim 
would be covered by the policy. HCC issued a new final response. It accepted damage to 
property outside of the contract works would, in theory, be covered. But having reviewed the 
call Mr D made its view remained that the claim had been notified late. 
Our investigator agreed the call Mr D had made didnt meet the notification requirements in 
the policy. And he thought HCCs position had been adversely affected because it wasnt 
told about the claim when it should have been. So he thought HCC acted fairly in turning 
down Mr Ds claim. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said he wasnt in a position to provide detailed policy information at the 
time of the call. And he was in a difficult situation with B and didnt want to jeopardise the 
relationship he had with it. He thought the adviser on the call should have done more to help 
him and thought the claim should be covered on a fair and reasonable basis. So I need to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject 
a claim unreasonably. However, I understand case law has established that relates to the 
position between an insurer and the policyholder. So it wouldnt apply to the claim Mr D is 
making under the 2010 Act. But that doesnt take away from the overriding responsibility our 
rules impose to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in the opinion of the 
Ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
In considering that Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Bs policy on which Mr D is 
seeking to exercise the rights transferred by the 2010 Act. HCC has now accepted he does 
have a claim the policy would potentially cover but has relied on a condition in the policy 
relating to notification. That says:
Where an event which could give rise to a claim under this Policy happens You will
(a) tell Us immediately and no later than
(i) 30 days of Your becoming aware of the event or occurrence
or
(ii) 7 days in the case of Damage caused by riot civil commotion strikers 
locked out workers persons taking part in labour disturbances or malicious 
persons
The policy goes on to say If You do not comply with this condition We will not pay Your 
claim.
I dont think its in dispute B didnt provide any notification to HCC of issues with work carried 
out at Mr Ds property. And, while I appreciate the court case didnt conclude until 2021, I 
think its clear B would have been aware there had been an event which could give rise to a 
claim well before that. So it hasnt complied with the above condition. 
However, the 2010 Act allows claimants to fulfil certain policy conditions on behalf of the 
insured. That includes notifying the insurer of a potential claim. And if that meets the 
contractual requirements of the policy an insurer cant turn down a claim on the basis the 
insured didnt comply with the notification requirements. 
Ive thought about whether the call Mr D made would meet those requirements. It took place 
in November 2018 so would potentially be within the relevant timeframe. However, having 
listened to the call I dont think it could reasonably be said to constitute notification. The 
conversation is general in nature (at one point Mr D says hes asking questions for his own 
research). He doesnt say who he is or indicate that he has a specific issue with a builder 
who has a policy with HCC. 
I appreciate Mr D wouldnt necessarily have had a policy number but I dont think that would 
have prevented him giving more detail about these issues which might have enabled HCC to 
identify this for itself. And given how he described the reason for his call I dont think there 
was more HCC could reasonably have been expected to ask about this. I understand why 
Mr D may have wanted to keep the conversation more general but the issue is whether he 
met the notification condition in the policy. I dont think he did. 
HCC has suggested this term represents a condition precedent to liability. If thats the case 
the legal position would be that HCC doesnt need to show how non-compliance has 
adversely affected (prejudiced) its position to turn down the claim. But I dont think thats 
something I need to determine because I think its reasonable in any case to conclude that 
HCCs position has been prejudiced by the non-compliance.  The event giving rise to the claim is the work carried out to Mr Ds property in late 2018 and 
HCC wasnt notified of this until October 2021; thats a significant delay of around three 
years. I think thats prevented HCC from carrying out a contemporaneous inspection of the 
damage to Mr Ds property and meant it lost the opportunity to have any input into the 
subsequent legal proceedings (including the ability to limit costs by agreeing settlement at an 
earlier stage). So, while I do appreciate the difficult position Mr D is in, I dont think HCC 
acted unfairly in turning down the claim he made. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman