DRN-4125772
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not use the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) 
scheme to protect him when he made an international payment.
What happened
Mr L sent an international payment through HSBC for £49,534.14, which was converted by 
them to ensure 58,000EUR was sent, but this payment unfortunately had a bank name 
where the beneficiary name should have been entered. He says he told HSBC that the 
payment was to his recently opened account overseas and the payment was in relation to an 
acquisition of a property. Mr L says that HSBC changed the currency from Pounds to Euros 
when making the payment and they converted it back again without the intended beneficiary 
bank receiving the payment. Mr L says that the CoP didnt work for him here and that the 
intended recipient bank has a similar scheme in place, but the details didnt match, so they 
didnt convert the currency and they made no charge. Mr L made a complaint to HSBC and 
he also complained about the long waiting times to be connected to them.
HSBC partially upheld Mr Ls complaint. They said his original payment was highlighted by 
their fraud detection system and was held for a security check. They said a text message 
was sent to him requesting him to make contact with them, which he did later the same day 
and he passed the security, so the payment was made. They said his funds were returned, 
but this was only for the value of £47,442.66. HSBC said that the reason that the payment 
credited was for a different value was due to the exchange rate that the beneficiary bank 
used when they returned the payment. They credited Mr Ls account with £25 to apologise 
for the call waiting times. Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He also complained 
about how HSBC handled his complaint, as they had closed it down and then had to reopen 
it, they referred him to our service without having all of the details of his complaint and they 
included incorrect information in their responses to him. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ls complaint. He said as Mr L had had inputted the 
information incorrectly there was no way of HSBC checking if the details were correct. He 
said the CoP wouldnt apply here as Mr L was making an international payment. But our 
investigator did say that HSBC gave him wrong information in their responses to Mr L which 
caused Mr L having to contact the beneficiary bank to clarify what actually happened. He 
said HSBC should pay Mr L a further £75.
Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he explained to their payment detection team before the payment was 
released that it was a payment to an account that he had set up in his name in order to 
transfer funds for a property he was purchasing and so they shouldve spotted the
beneficiary needed to be him and not the name of the bank. He said HSBC should have 
been aware that EU EReg 2015/847 requires the name of the beneficiary on a transfer to 
fully correspond with the name of the holder of the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
It is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run their international payments 
processes or procedures such as what level of detail and checks they should be completing. 
It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who have the 
power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
I must explain to Mr L that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how HSBC have investigated his 
complaint, such as when they choose to close a complaint down and then reopen it, or what 
information they should consider before they refer a customer to our service does not come 
under my powers to consider. But I will be able to look into the incorrect information that Mr L 
says the letters contained. 
While there is a CoP scheme in place for domestic payments, there isnt the same or similar 
system in place for international payments. So although Mr L has mentioned the beneficiary 
bank subscribes to a similar system, unfortunately, these systems arent in place for 
international payments. So the CoP would not apply here.
Ive listened to the call which Mr L had with HSBC when his payment was subject to a 
security check based on their fraud detection system. The purpose of a fraud check would 
be to ensure that it is Mr L who is genuinely making the payment and that he has not been 
pressured into making the payment as it may have been an unusual activity on his account. 
The payment had already been processed by Mr L online prior to the fraud check. 
The call handler explains that the reason the payment was held was because fraudsters and 
scammers can take advantage and they need to check the payment is not related to any of 
those activities. He asks Mr L the beneficiary of the payment and Mr L confirms it is the 
name of the beneficiary bank in a one word response to the call handler. So Mr L had 
confirmed the same beneficiary as what the information available to the call handler would 
have seen. He didnt say his own name in response to the beneficiary name.
Mr L told the call handler that he had completed his due diligence and he was confident the 
bank was legitimate. The call handler tells Mr L that HSBC wont be held liable for any 
subsequent loss. Mr L says we have to agree I have done checks, I have done the checks, 
all the checks that are possible. Then the call handler releases the payment. So Im not 
persuaded that by having the bank name as the beneficiary name should have concerned 
the call handler enough to realise there was anything wrong with the payment here based on 
the conversation he and Mr L had. And it would not be unusual for a customer to transfer 
money into a banks direct account. Ultimately Mr L confirmed that the beneficiary name was 
correct.
Ive considered what Mr L has said about the regulations and them requiring the name of the 
beneficiary on a transfer to fully correspond with the name of the holder of the account. But 
Im not persuaded that HSBC have broken any regulations here. I say this as they would 
have no way of verifying the details of the recipient account, as this was an external account 
overseas. It is in the beneficiaries banks power to be able to check the payment against the 
account they hold as they have access to the intended recipients information. And this is 
what the beneficiary bank did here.
This is why the third party bank told Mr L We inform you that we have proceeded to the return to origin of the same in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of 20 May 2015 on 
beneficiary information accompanying transfers of funds and which requires that the name of 
the beneficiary of a transfer corresponds fully to the holder of the credit account for 
collections originating from outside the EEA, so we cannot execute the indicated payment 
order. 
HSBCs terms and conditions are clear that You need to make sure you give us the right 
details, as well make the payment using only the information you give us. Its up to you to 
check the details are correct. They also confirm that If the payment is returned to us or we 
cant make it for any reason, well reverse it using the exchange rate at that time. The 
exchange rate might have changed. So the amount we pay back may be more or less than 
we originally took from your account.
As the exchange rate had changed from the day it was converted from Pounds to Euros then 
that is why when HSBC converted it back, Mr L received a lower amount of money. Im 
satisfied they sent the funds to the third party bank with the details Mr L gave them. So I 
cant say that HSBC have acted outside of their terms and conditions here. Ultimately it was 
Mr Ls responsibility to enter the correct details in the correct fields and check this was 
correct. He then confirmed the beneficiary name on the call with the fraud call handler. So 
HSBC acted upon his instructions after this and Mr L had confirmed he had completed all the 
checks he could do, and he did his due diligence. So I wont be asking HSBC to refund the 
difference in the exchange rate. 
But HSBC did let Mr L down on occasion. They werent always clear in their responses to Mr 
L as they mentioned an incorrect International Bank Account Number (IBAN) and an 
incorrect spelling of the bank name for possible reasons why the payment wasnt successful. 
They also directed Mr L to the third party bank as they said the third party bank had 
converted the payment from Euros to Pounds, when it was actually HSBC who converted 
both payments. So Mr L was inconvenienced by having to contact the third party bank to get 
to the bottom of what happened. And this is when he was told of the real reason why his 
payment was rejected by them. And that it was actually HSBC that had converted the 
currency of the payment. 
HSBC paid Mr L £25 for the call waiting times. But as they also gave Mr L incorrect 
information and told him to contact the third party bank  which he did, then Im not satisfied 
that a total of £25 compensation represents a fair outcome for this complaint. Our 
investigator has suggested that HSBC pay Mr L a further £75 here. Im satisfied that this is 
proportionate for what happened here. So it follows that HSBC should put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that HSBC pay Mr L a further £75 for inconvenience, which I 
think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr L a further £75 
compensation for inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman