DRN-1612031
The complaint 
Mrs M complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold a bill protector 
policy to her in 2004. A bill protector policy is a type of payment protection insurance (PPI). 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to PPI for the rest of this decision. 
I can see that the cover was actually sold to Mrs M by Halifax Insurance Ireland. However, 
St Andrews is responsible for complaints like this. For ease of reference, Ill refer to St 
Andrews for the rest of this decision. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with that view 
and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
I know Mrs M feels strongly that the cover was mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint her, but after 
considering her case in some detail, I havent upheld the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing for me to establish is how this cover came to be sold to Mrs M. She is 
adamant that the sale took place in a Halifax branch when she upgraded her current 
account. Consequently, she didnt think the person who sold the cover to her had explained 
it properly. 
St Andrews has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ms PPI application from and it was signed 
by her on 18 November 2004. Looking at the electronic records that have been provided, it 
looks as though Mrs M took a new financial product with Halifax on 26 October 2004, so I 
dont think the PPI was sold at the same time. The application form looks as though it was 
sent to Mrs M by post. 
I want to make clear that I dont doubt that what Mrs M told us is what she honestly 
remembers about the sale. It is difficult to remember precisely what happened over 15 years 
ago, which is when this policy was sold. Im satisfied that St Andrews wrote to Mrs M to offer 
her this PPI policy shortly after she had taken out a new financial product in October 2004. 
What I need to consider next is whether Mrs M would have known this cover was optional 
and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. As I said above, I think the cover was 
sold by post and so Mrs M would have been able to complete the application form in her own 
time and at her own pace. 
I appreciate Mrs M said she thought the cover was a mandatory fee for her current account. 
But I think its clear from the application form that this was for an insurance policy. It 
mentions insurance claims and premiums. And Mrs M had filled out her bank account details to set up a direct debit  thats not what would usually be expected of a current account fee.  
I think it would have been reasonably clear that if Mrs M didnt want this cover, she could 
have ignored the letter and not returned the application. 
This wasnt an advised sale, but St Andrews still had to make sure Mrs M had enough 
information about the cover so she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her 
needs. 
From the evidence before me, I can see how the information provided to Mrs M could have 
been clearer. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold her complaint. I also have to 
look at what she would have done if St Andrews had told her everything it should have. To 
help me decide about this, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also 
thought carefully about what Mrs M told us about her personal circumstances at the relevant 
time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the insurance, £200 would have been paid to 
Mrs M for each month she was off sick from work or if she lost her job for a maximum of 12 
months. This was to cover her household bills if she was out of work. 
Mrs M told us (and I accept) that she would have had full sick pay from her employer for six 
months. However, this policy would have been paid in addition to and also lasted longer than 
her full pay from work. Mrs M could have used her existing resources on her other essential 
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she was out of 
work. 
I understand that Mrs M was in good health when this policy was sold. So I dont think shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual about her wider circumstances that would have stopped her from 
being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
So with all of this in mind, I can see how this insurance policy could have been helpful to Mrs 
M if she was out of work. I dont think she would have acted differently if shed been given 
more or better information about the cover. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs M, but it follows that I havent upheld the complaint. I dont 
require St Andrews to take any further action. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about St Andrews Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman