DRN-1295416
The complaint
Ms M complains that MBNA Limited rejected her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of a faulty car.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background to this complaint in some detail in her opinion 
letter and for the sake of brevity I will give a brief summary. However, both parties can be 
reassured that I have read and considered all the evidence they have put forward.
In August 2018 Ms M purchased a second-hand car at a cost of £3,495 and used her credit 
card to cover the cost plus her own car in part exchange. In October the car failed its MOT 
due to the handbrake being below the required efficiency level. Ms M says she contacted the 
dealer in May 2019 and it initially offered to look at the car, but later declined. 
Ms M first called MBNA on 3 June 2019 to raise a section 75 claim. In addition to the MOT 
failure Ms M said the car should have been sold with a six-month MOT but it had expired in 
October 2018, but she also said the price of the car had been reduced by £35.00 to reflect 
this. She said the car had an oil leak and she added that the dealer had lost its AA 
accreditation. I see that MBNAs records note Ms M part exchanged the car on 1 June 2019.
MBNA asked for further evidence, but says that this wasnt received and so it declined her 
claim for the sum she had paid. However, it offered her £235.95 to cover the cost of repair to 
the brakes, despite only seeing an estimate for this sum.
Ms M complained about the handling of her claim and MBNA offered her £75 compensation 
which she accepted. She raised further service issues and MBNA offered her £25. She 
remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by 
one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She said that the handbrake was a wear and tear matter and noted Ms M had driven the car 
for over 3,000 before this issue arose. As such she couldnt say the car wasnt fit for purpose 
at the time of sale. 
Ms M had said there were other issues with the car which would cost £2,000 to repair, but 
hadnt supplied any evidence of this. Our investigator said that as the car had been sold 
neither she nor MBNA were able to explore these alleged faults or arrange an independent 
inspection to determine if the faults were present or developing at the point of sale and if it 
would have shown that the car was not fit for purpose when sold.
As for the matter of the withdrawal of the AA affiliation she didnt think this could be regarded 
as either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer. She explained that for a 
misrepresentation we need to show that there was a false statement of fact that induced Ms 
M, to enter into the contract. That meant it would be necessary to prove that it wasnt part of 
the AA promise at the point of sale and that the AA promise induced Ms M to purchase the 
car.
She also addressed the handling of the claim by MBNA. She saw the transaction had been 
placed into dispute by MBNA on 12 June 2019 and while the investigation was being carried 
out the transaction was frozen. The interest due on that sum was automatically recalculated 
from the date the transaction was applied to the account and an interest refund of £605.60 
was applied and shown on the June 2019 statement.
No payment was expected the following month as the transaction in dispute was greater than the outstanding balance. Once the investigation was completed the transaction was 
removed from the disputes system and the refunded interest reapplied. She thought MBNA 
had followed the correct processes. 
Ms M didnt agree and said our investigator hadnt addressed the banks aggressive tactics 
in seeking payment after the transaction had been reinstated. She said it had taken £700 
from her. She said it hadnt put the whole account on hold and our investigator said that the 
bank was only required to put the disputed transaction on hold. 
Ms M said she had told MBNA that she was selling the car and it could have contacted the 
dealer which had bought it. Our investigator responded to say that the onus was on her to 
supply the evidence to support her claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied there is a debtor-creditor-supplier chain in this case and this leaves me to 
consider that there has been either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I have to do 
so based on the evidence provided.
Part of the problem I have is that Ms M has supplied little in the way of evidence. I know the 
car failed its MOT in October 2018 due the handbrake not being sufficiently effective. That 
doesnt mean it was faulty at the point of sale. Ms M had driven the car for over 3,000 miles 
and it is quite possible that the fault developed during her ownership. In any event, the 
failure was of a wear and tear nature and not such that it merited rejection.
Ms M has alluded to other faults including an oil leak, but again I have seen no evidence to 
back this claim up. That makes it difficult for me to say the car was faulty at the point of sale.  
MBNA asked for evidence and it was up to Ms M to provide it in pursuit of her claim. Where 
a customer asks a bank to cover the cost of faulty goods it is entitled to ask for evidence 
before handing out money.
MBNA were not obliged to seek out the evidence from the dealer which bought the car. The 
onus was on Ms M. I would add that Ms M asked that the payment of £3,095 which she put 
on her credit card to be refunded, but I presume she received some value for the car when it 
was part exchanged. That means she didnt lose £3,095.
As far as the AA affiliation is concerned, I cannot see that Ms M has shown that led to any 
misrepresentation such that it induced her to buy the car. It would appear that this happened 
after her purchase and even if it had occurred previously, I cannot say that this was the 
inducement that led to her making the purchase.
There were some glitches in the handling of Ms Ms claim and MBNA has paid her £25 and 
offered a further £75 which I believe Ms M has now accepted. As for the re-debiting of her 
account when her claim was rejected I dont believe MBNA did anything wrong.
It placed the transaction on hold and credited the interest due which is standard procedure. 
Once the claim was rejected it recredited the transaction sum and interest which again is 
correct. Ms M entered into an agreement with MBNA which said I have borrowed money 
from you and I will pay it back with the appropriate interest. No breach of contract or 
misrepresentation has been established and so she owes the outstanding sum
I appreciate she has encountered some financial difficulties and, in that regard, I would 
remind MBNA of its obligation to treat Ms M positively and sympathetically in finding a way 
forward that her debt can be repaid.
In conclusion I am unable to uphold Ms Ms complaint as I cannot identify that MBNA has 
done anything wrong.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman