DRN-2906320
The complaint
Mr H complains about the interest applied to his account with Ikano Bank AB (publ).
What happened
In November 2019 Mr H entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano. The cash price 
of the agreement was £2245 and there was a Buy Now Pay Later period for 12 months.
Ikano wrote to Mr H in November 2019 and confirmed that the BNPL period expired on 19 
November 2020. It explained that to avoid interest being charged on the loan, the sum of 
£2294 would need to be paid by this date. This sum included an administration fee of £49.
In October 2020 Mr H made a payment of £2,225.
Following the end of the BNPL period, Ikano wrote to Mr H and advised him that monthly 
direct debit payments would be taken from November 2020.
Mr H complained to Ikano because he didnt think the interest had been calculated correctly. 
He said interest should only be charged on the loan remaining at the end of the BNPL 
period, not from the beginning of the loan.
In response, Ikano said it had adjusted interest to take account of the payment Mr H had 
made. It said the terms of the account stated that interest is calculated from the date the loan 
is debited to the date the balance is paid in full.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was clear from the letter sent by 
Ikano that interest would be charged from the start of the agreement.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt that the information provided by Ikano was unclear and misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the fixed sum loan agreement. This sets out the different types of loan 
available and explains how interest is charged.
I can see that Ikano wrote to Mr H in November 2019 confirming that he had a BNPL 
agreement. In the letter it explained that the total purchase price of £2294 needed to be paid 
by 19 November 2020 to avoid any interest being charged. This sum included an admin fee 
of £49. The letter went on to explain that if the purchase price wasnt paid in full by this date, 
the admin fee of £49 wouldnt be charged but interest would be charged on the loan amount 
remaining (meaning the loan minus any payment made during the BNPL period). The letter 
further explained that interest would be calculated from the start of the agreement and would 
be applied monthly during the deferred period. It said that if payments were made during the 
deferred period, the interest would be adjusted to take account of this.
I can see that Ikano wrote to Mr H in October 2020 to advise him that the BNPL period was 
ending and explaining that if the total purchase price wasnt paid by 19 November 2020 
interest would be charged from the start of the agreement.
Mr H has said that he found the letters misleading, he though the letters meant that interest 
would be charged on the balance which existed at the end of the BNPL period, not charged 
from the start of the agreement.
I can see why Mr H might have interpreted the wording of the letter this way if the sentence 
.interest is calculated on the balance at the end of the deferred period is taken in 
isolation. But I think the second part of the sentence ..is charged from the date the 
application is accepted makes it clear that interest is charged from the start of the 
agreement.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the information provided about interest and when 
it would be charged was clear. Im unbale to say that the information was incorrect or 
misleading.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman