DRN-1850422
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that she received £300 less than she should have done when she made a 
cash withdrawal. Santander UK Plc has nevertheless debited her account with the full 
amount.
What happened
Ms B went to a Santander branch to withdraw £1,900 in cash to pay for building work. The 
cashier counted £900 in £50 notes and also gave Ms B a pre-counted and sealed bag which 
he said contained £1,000 in £20 notes. The bag wasn't opened or checked while Ms B was 
in the branch.  
Ms B took the cash home and left it for her builder. When the builder collected it, however, 
he said that the bag had contained only £700, not £1,000. Ms B returned to the branch the 
following day to explain what had happened. She was told the contents of the bag would 
have been checked by two staff members and that the cashier would have offered to count 
the money in her presence. Ms B said that the bag didn't appear to have two signatures and 
that the cashier hadn't offered to count the money when she collected it.
Santander investigated further, but said that its tills balanced - that is, the cash it had in the 
branch was consistent with Ms B having withdrawn £1,900, as her account recorded. It was 
satisfied that Ms B had received £1,900 and so didn't offer to refund the money she thought 
was missing. 
Ms B referred the matter to this service, and one of investigators considered it. She thought, 
on balance, that it was more likely than not that Ms B had received the full £1,900. Ms B 
didn't accept the investigator's findings, however, and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.   
Ms B says that she wasn't offered the opportunity of having the money counted in the 
branch. She says too that the bag wasn't signed by two staff members, indicating it wasn't 
checked by two staff members either. Santander disputes both of these statements, but I 
don't think they're crucial in my consideration of this complaint. The issue I have to decide 
isn't whether processes were followed, but whether the bag Ms B was given contained 
£1,000, or some other amount. It wasn't checked in branch; the picture of the bag (after it 
was opened) is inconclusive in showing how many people might have checked it. As a 
result, neither of those matters is especially helpful.   Ms B says she left the money for her builder and that he contacted her to say that the bag 
was £300 short. I take that to mean that she hadn't counted it herself and wasn't present 
when the builder did. Ms B says that her builder is known to her and is someone she trusts. I 
accept that, but it does of course mean that she has no direct knowledge of the 
circumstances in which the bag was opened or the money counted. 
Santander's own position relies heavily on its statement that there were no discrepancies in 
the cash balances at the branch. I accept that there weren't. Ms B says however that there 
wouldn't be if the bag contained only £700 but was thought to contain £1,000. I don't accept 
that, however. The bank's records would have shown that £1,000 was put in the bag; but if 
only £700 had been put in, there would have been an additional £300 cash unaccounted for. 
It's impossible to know for certain exactly what happened in this case. It may be that Ms B's 
builder made an honest mistake in counting the money, or that someone else had access to 
it before he could count it. I'm not persuaded however that Ms B was given less than the full 
amount of £1,900 she had requested and which was debited to her account. I shan't 
therefore be awarding a refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to take nay further steps to resolve 
Ms B's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman