DRN-3676205
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun 
Life) mis-sold them a reviewable whole-of-life policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were sold a reviewable whole-of-life policy by Sun Life in 1995 to satisfy a 
condition of their mortgage. The policy had a sum assured of £91,000 which matched their 
mortgage borrowing and the premium was around £33 per month. The policy was set up on 
a maximum cover basis  that means Mr and Mrs T were getting as much cover as possible 
for their premium. The policy would be reviewed after ten years and every five years 
thereafter until they reach a certain age when it would be more frequent.
In 2005, at the first review, Mr and Mrs T were told their sum assured had to decrease to 
around £57,000. The sum assured continued to decrease at each review. Mr and Mrs T 
complained. They said they wanted to either have cover for the original sum assured, or 
have the policy sum assured frozen at around £13,000 with no additional contributions, or 
have a full refund and cancel the policy.
Sun Life agreed that a reviewable whole-of-life policy wasnt appropriate to protect mortgage 
borrowing but concluded that Mr and Mrs T hadnt lost out financially as they hadnt made a 
claim whilst they still had their mortgage. Sun Life also said as the policy was still maintained 
after Mr and Mrs T repaid their mortgage it was clearly needed. It confirmed it didnt offer 
decreasing term plans at the time.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She agreed with Sun Life that a whole-of-life policy, 
particularly set up on a maximum basis, wasnt suitable to protect a mortgage  this is 
because its very likely the sum assured would reduce after ten years  which is what 
happened in this case. She didnt think it was right for Sun Life to say there hadnt been a 
financial loss as no claim was made. She said that Mr and Mrs T may have paid less if they 
had been sold a term assurance policy matching the mortgage. As Sun Life didnt sell these, 
she recommended that it refunded Mr and Mrs T their premiums less the cost of life cover 
(plus interest) to fairly reflect the position theyd have been in had they not received 
unsuitable advice.
Sun Life didnt make any further comments but asked for an Ombudsman to reach a 
decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator for similar reasons, Ill 
explain why.
Its not disputed that a reviewable whole-of-life policy set up on a maximum basis wasnt 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances here. They needed life cover as it was a condition 
of their mortgage but the policy they were sold would only provide them with the right level of 
cover for ten years  at which point it was likely to decrease. In Mr and Mrs Ts case thats 
what happened. Their life cover had to drop significantly at the first review at which point, its 
unlikely it covered their mortgage.
Sun Life has said that Mr and Mrs T havent lost out as they didnt need to claim whilst their 
mortgage was in force. It went on to say that the policy has remained in force demonstrating 
that Mr and Mrs T needed it. Specifically, Sun Lifes representative said:
If we had been able to offer a decreasing term plan then they would not have had the life 
cover for the years since the repayment of their mortgage, so I do not believe that a 
decreasing term plan would have been suitable.
I disagree with Sun Life here. Mr and Mrs T only needed this life cover for the mortgage at 
the point of sale  and Sun Life sold them something that wasnt suitable. The fact that Mr 
and Mrs T kept the policy beyond repaying their mortgage doesnt make the 
recommendation suitable. And, in any event, Mr and Mrs T have said they continue to pay 
for this policy to ensure they dont lose out. And given theyre willing to cancel it if they 
receive a refund of premiums I think that demonstrates that they no longer need the cover. I 
cant agree with Sun Lifes argument that a decreasing term plan wouldnt have been 
suitable. This is because Mr and Mrs Ts objectives were to cover their repayment mortgage 
 for which a decreasing term plan wouldve been suitable.
It is clear to me that the policy Sun Life recommended wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts 
objective of covering the mortgage. Ive seen no evidence showing they needed the cover 
for anything else or that there was any reason why Mr and Mrs T wanted a reviewable 
whole-of-life policy which was likely to need significant changes after ten years.
I do note that Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage required them to have life cover in place, so I cant 
say it would be fair to fully refund their premiums. Theyd have always needed some cover. 
But suitable cover in this case was a decreasing term assurance policy. Sun Life says it 
didnt sell these  so Sun Life cant do a comparison for premiums. Instead, Ive thought 
carefully about what would be fair and reasonable in this case. Our Investigator felt fair 
redress would be to refund Mr and Mrs T their premiums less the cost of life cover as it 
wouldnt be right for Sun Life to have received plan charges for something that it shouldnt 
have sold. I think this is the fairest way to put things right for Mr and Mrs T. We know they 
wouldve needed to pay for life cover, but this policy wasnt suitable  and Sun Life didnt 
offer a suitable alternative to compare the cost. So, I think the redress the Investigator 
suggested is fair and reasonable in this particular case.
Putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited must do the following:
- Refund Mr and Mrs Ts premiums paid to the date of this decision less the cost of life 
cover.
- To the loss, it must add 8% simple interest* per annum from the date the premiums 
were paid to the date of settlement. 
*If Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how 
much its taken off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited must follow the instructions above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman