DRN-3908638
The complaint
Mr W complains that Truscott Wealth Management Limited (TWM) caused a delay in 
payment of his tax free pension commencement lump sum (PCLS). He believes he received 
a lower PCLS as a result.
What happened
Mr W approached TWM to discuss the possibility of transferring his Defined Benefit (DB) 
scheme pension funds to a personal pension. Mr W believed a transfer would be suitable for 
him as it would release a significant PCLS which would allow him to carry out home 
improvements and pay off his mortgage and some unsecured debts.
After gathering the appropriate information and receiving confirmation from Mr W that he 
wished to continue with the advice process, TWM set out its analysis and recommendation 
in a suitability report. It recommended that Mr W should transfer his DB fund, of £1,024,540 
to a personal pension offered by a pension provider Ill call V.
On 28 February 2022 TWM instructed V to receive a pension transfer from Mr Ws DB 
scheme. On 26 April 2022 Mr Ws full DB value was transferred to V. V invested the full sum 
in the fund TWM had recommended without making a PCLS payment to Mr W. Mr W had 
expected to receive a PCLS payment of £230,000 (22.45% of the full transfer sum).
Mr W and TWM discussed the situation. Exactly what was said in their exchanges is 
disputed. But its not disputed that, in the meantime, the value of Mr Ws fund had dropped, 
which meant that hed receive a smaller PCLS payment if he took it immediately. In a later 
email exchange TWM suggested that Mr W should wait for the markets to recover to their 
original level before Mr W took his PCLS payment. Mr W wasnt happy with that suggestion. 
He said the mistake was between TWM and V. TWM said it would look again at the situation 
in a week. 
On 13 May 2022 TWM instructed V to pay Mr W a PCLS of £228,140, which  at that time  
was 25% of his fund value which stood at £912,564. V processed the instruction. On 
23 May 2022 it paid Mr W his PCLS of £228,140. At the time V crystalised the benefit the 
fund stood at £996,740.56.
The following day, 24 May 2022, Mr W emailed TWM to confirm hed received the PCLS. But 
he believed he was out of pocket. He said:
The cost to me is £3820.00 due to the errors & mistakes that have been made during this 
process.
This is calculated as follows:
Original transfer value £1,024,558.07
Requested funds £ 230,000.00
Requested funds a percentage of the transfer value 22.45%
Value of transfer value at date shares were sold (18th May) £1,007,543
If the original percentage that was requested was applied to this amount ie £1,007,543 x 
22.45% and taken as a cash free lump sum this would net £226,180.30
Effectively the £230,000 is now worth £226,180.30 a difference of £3819.70
TWM didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said the situation arose because there were two 
quotes on Vs system; one which included paying PCLS and one which didnt. It said that V 
should have approached TWM for clarification of which was the correct quote but instead 
processed the wrong one. TWM added that if Mr W had waited for the markets to recover, as 
they later did, then he could have taken the full PCLS without any loss. It noted that Mr W 
had only paid off around 10% of his mortgage with his PCLS and not 100% which hed told 
TWM he intended to do. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She requested 
further information from both TWM and V. Having done so she didnt think TWM had dealt 
with Mr W fairly. So she said TWM should put Mr W back into the position he would have 
been in if the PCLS had been correctly applied in April 2022. She said TWM should add 
simple interest to any financial loss payment at a rate of 8% a year. She also recommended 
that TWM pay Mr W £250 compensation to address the trouble and upset the matter had 
caused him.
TWM didnt agree with our investigator and made further representations. But, as she wasnt 
persuaded to change her assessment, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in responding to it both Mr W and TWM have made a number 
of points. Ive read everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address each point 
raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key matters at the heart of Mr Ws 
complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Why wasnt the PCLS paid to Mr W initially?
Its not in dispute that Mr W wanted and was expecting to receive a PCLS payment of 
£230,000. That was 22.45% of his DB schemes full value. Indeed his desire for a PCLS 
payment was clearly the primary driver in him wanting to transfer his DB scheme funds to a 
personal pension. But V didn't pay that sum to him after it received the funds.
TWM says the blame for that lies with V. It said that were two quotes on Vs system, one 
with PCLS and one without, but V chose the wrong one. As a result, V didnt pay any PCLS 
to Mr W initially. We made enquiries of V to establish what the process was; what actually 
happened and what should have happened. 
V told us that advising firms like TWM can run as many quotes as they like for comparison 
purposes and those can be saved on their portal for the firm to return to at a later date if they wish to. But the quotes themselves dont form the basis of an instruction to V. Instead, once 
the firm has the quote it wishes to progress, it needs to choose the submit option and once 
submitted V will process it. It said the quote TWM submitted  on 28 February 2022  didnt 
request a PCLS. So V didnt pay one once the transfer was completed. V showed us 
evidence of the instruction that TWM submitted to it, which didnt show any PCLS. Instead it 
showed that 100% of Mr Ws transfer sum was to be invested in the chosen fund. For 
contrast purposes V also showed us a sample submission which did include a PCLS 
request. And its apparent that TWMs submission on 28 February 2022 didnt include a 
PCLS instruction..
TWM sent us two quotes with illustrations from V. One is dated 31 January 2022 and 
includes a PCLS sum of 25% of the fund value. The second is dated 3 February 2022, with a 
PCLS of £230,000  22.45% of the fund value. It says that is evidence it submitted the 
appropriate quote. It said the information V has shown us isn't evidence that the blame does 
not lie with V. But I'm not persuaded by TWMs representations here. It hasn't shown us any 
proof that it submitted a quote on 28 February 2022, the date that V received the instruction 
to transfer, which included a request for PCLS. In contrast Vs been able to show us clear 
evidence that TWM made a submission without that instruction. 
Having considered the matter very carefully I find Vs evidence convincing. And I'm satisfied 
that the mistake here was TWMs alone. That is, when submitting the instruction to V, TWM 
omitted to include the PCLS request. I'm persuaded that, no matter how many quotes TWM 
ran on Vs portal, it only actually submitted one instruction to V, which didnt include the 
PCLS request. As a result, when V received the funds, in line with the instruction received, it 
simply invested 100% of the transferred sum in the chosen fund and didnt make any PCLS 
payment to Mr W. 
Did Mr W lose out because of TWMs mistake?
TWM said that if Mr W had simply waited for the markets to recover he wouldnt have 
suffered any financial loss at all. It said that by 9 June 2022 the markets had recovered to 
their previous level. So it doesn't think it is responsible for any losses. 
While I understand TWMs point I dont think it would have been fair to insist that Mr W 
should have to wait in the hope that his fund recovered so that he didnt suffer a loss. I 
accept that TWM was confident that the markets would recover, but I dont see why Mr W 
should have shared its confidence. Mr W is not an experienced investor and while he no 
doubt hoped that his fund would recover, there was no reason for him to remain out of 
pocket in the meantime whilst waiting for that to happen.
Mr W had earmarked his PCLS for a number of purposes, including paying off unsecured 
debts, making home improvements and paying off his mortgage. As I've said above a key 
driver for him in transferring his DB scheme funds was to secure his PCLS, and that was 
what he expected to happen. The only reason he didnt receive those funds in April 2022 
was because of TWMs error. It certainly was through no fault of his own. But TWMs 
mistake had effectively hamstrung him from spending the sums as he wished. And its 
unlikely he would have had any certainty that the markets would fully recover. So it would 
seem grossly unfair to expect him to wait for an event that  as far as he was aware  might 
not happen or might not happen for a very long time, even if TWM was confident that it 
would. So I dont think it was reasonable for TWM to expect Mr W to be deprived of the 
opportunity to use his PCLS money simply because TWM had made a mistake.
TWMs said that Mr W didnt use the money to pay off all of his mortgage as hed initially 
said hed intended to, and instead only paid a fraction of it. But I think thats irrelevant. Once received the money was Mr Ws to spend as he wished and if his plans for those funds 
changed, that was his decision alone. I dont think it would be fair to deprive him of the 
opportunity to spend the money that he should have received while expecting him to wait for 
an event he couldnt be sure was going to happen. 
V told us that if TWM had submitted an initial instruction which included a PCLS request then 
it would have crystalised the funds before taking an initial fee or investing the money. That 
ensures that the consumer receives the maximum PCLS available. So, had TWM submitted 
an immediate PCLS request, paying it would have been one of Vs first actions on receipt of 
the transfer so its likely Mr W would have received his PCLS without significant delay. But, 
because the markets had dropped by the time it processed the subsequent PCLS request, 
Mr W received a smaller sum, which was a larger percentage of his overall fund. It follows 
that I think Mr W suffered a loss because of TWMs mistake in submitting its instruction to V. 
So I dont think it dealt with him fairly and reasonably.
Putting things right
As Mr W suffered a loss because of TWMs error, it needs to take the appropriate action to 
put him into the position he would have been in but for that mistake. So it needs to 
reconstruct the value of Mr Ws pension as at the date the PCLS should have been paid 
correctly, which was on 26 April 2022. TWM needs to pay Mr W any shortfall in the PCLS 
sum he received in May 2022. And it should add simple interest to that amount at a rate of 
8% a year from 26 April 2022 up to the date it makes payment to him. 
Further, TWMs mistake and refusal to put things right has no doubt been a source of 
distress and inconvenience for Mr W. To address that I think it should pay him £250 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. I require Truscott Wealth Management 
Limited to take the steps described under the heading of putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman