DRN-3138255
The complaint
Mr K complains Acasta European Insurance Company Limited has turned down his claim on 
a furniture insurance policy.
References to Acasta include its agents.
What happened
Mr K was moving home when his sofa and chair were damaged. The chair had some 
scuffs/staining and the sofa also had scuffs/staining and a tear. So Mr K made a claim for 
accidental damage on his furniture insurance policy.
I understand Acasta sent Mr K some stain remover which removed the marks on the sofa 
and chair. But Acasta says it wont accept Mr Ks claim for the tear in his sofa because his 
policy doesnt cover transit damage.
Mr K complained to Acasta about this and then, when Acasta didnt uphold his complaint, he 
brought it to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Ks complaint didnt uphold it. He thought 
the damage had happened when the sofa was in transit and so was excluded from cover 
under Mr Ks policy.
Mr K disagrees. He doesnt think Acasta should be able to pick and choose which parts of 
his claim it accepts  which he says it did by sending him stain remover to deal with one part 
of his claim and by then turning down the other part for the tear. He also disputes his sofa 
was in transit when the damage happened.
So Mr Ks complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ks policy covers his sofa (and chair) for accidental damage (including staining). It says 
this is sudden and unforeseen damage to his sofa (or chair) or sudden and unforeseen 
contact between them and a substance.
But Mr Ks policy contains an exclusion for transit damage. The policy says this is damage 
caused to Mr Ks sofa and chair when theyre moved between properties.
Mr K has given slightly differing accounts of how the damage to his sofa happened. Hes 
said it was when he was trying to get through the front door of his new house. Hes also said 
it was once the sofa was inside his house and being moved towards another room. He says 
he has marks on his wall to show where the damage happened. And he says that, once the 
sofa was inside his home and being moved to its final position, it was no longer in transit.
I dont agree. I think that whether the damage happened either as Mr K brought the sofa in 
through the front door or as he was moving it into its final position within his new house, it 
was still in the process of being moved between properties. That means I think the damage 
to the sofa was transit damage as defined in the policy. And so I think it was fair and 
reasonable of Acasta to turn down Mr Ks claim for the sofa tear. 
That Acasta sent Mr K some stain remover (which I think it did before its agent had 
inspected the damage to both the sofa and the chair) doesnt change my conclusion on this 
complaint. I presume Acasta did this to mitigate the damage Mr K was seeking to claim for 
and I think it was a fair and reasonable thing to do in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman