DRN-3158560
The complaint
Ms C says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. Ms C says she was in a debt 
spiral and so she couldnt afford the loan repayments. She thinks Morses shouldve 
made better checks and not lent to her.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld in part, but 
for different reasons and for different loans. A copy of the background to the complaint and 
my provisional findings are below in italics and form part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Ms C between December 
2013 and August 2017. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 03/12/2013 £300 50 11/12/2014
2 06/01/2015 £200 34 23/07/2015
3 23/07/2015 £400 50 24/06/2016
4 07/07/2016 £500 33 17/09/2016
5 03/08/2017 £500 33 01/02/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses had irresponsibly lent 
loans 1 and 2 and loan 5 (after a break in the lending). But he thought that it shouldnt have 
approved loans 3 and 4, as Ms C seemed to be reliant on the lending at this point.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it didnt think three loans in 19 
months was excessive. And that the loans seemed otherwise affordable. And there were 
some smaller breaks between the loans.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Loans 1 to 3 and loan 5
I firstly agree that, as there was a significant break between loans 4 and 5, that its reasonable to 
treat this as a new period of lending. And so, the checks Morses needed to do would be broadly 
similar for loans 1 to 3 and loan 5.
There isnt a great deal of information from the earlier loans. But for loan 3, it was recorded 
that Ms Cs income was £450 per week and for loan 4 it was £350. The corresponding figures 
for her expenditure were £90 and £150. There was no material difference in the amounts for 
loan 5. And Ive not seen anything to show that her situation was different for loans 1 and 2. 
So, it was reasonable for Morses to think Ms C could afford the monthly repayments for these 
loans.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms C mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained.
Our adjudicator said that the lending pattern itself showed that Mrs M was struggling financially 
and that she was likely to be reliant on the lending at loan 3. But the repayments seem 
reasonable and the loan amounts didnt vary by much. And looking at the account statements 
Morses has provided it seems that Mrs M wasnt having any obvious problems making her 
repayments.
I agree that 19 months is a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit. But taking 
everything else into consideration I dont think this means the lending was unsustainable in this 
case. So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mrs M was reliant on this lending and it wasnt 
causing her significant problems when Morses approved the loans.And it could be that Morses should have made better checks before approving loan 3. But Ms C 
hasnt provided any information to show me what Morses wouldve likely seen if it had made 
better checks. So, I cant say for certain that it wouldve been able to conclude that these loans 
werent affordable for her, or that it shouldnt have lent for any other reason.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 3 and 
loan 5 were likely to be proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for these loans was likely 
to be reasonable.
Im not intending to uphold Ms Cs complaint about them.
Loan 4
But I dont agree that Morses should have approved loan 4. I think at this point Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. I say this 
because:
Ms C had been indebted to Morses for around two and a half years. Whilst there were 
some smaller breaks in the lending, these werent significant. And, this was a 
commitment for around another seven months. I think this is a long time to be using 
this type of credit, given her circumstances.
Ms Cs first loan was for £300 and loan 5 was for £500. This was a significant 
increase, especially given the length of the lending relationship already.
So, at this point, Morses ought to have known that Ms C was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need.
And Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms C was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her 
finances and that her indebtedness was unsustainable.
I think that Ms C lost out because Morses provided loan 4 because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The length of time over which Ms C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things right.
Morses, and Ms C, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. Ms C agreed 
with what I had said. Morses didnt have anything to add after theyd seen it.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Ms C didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I wont say any more 
than what I said in my earlier decision, as no one has raised any new issues. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loan 4.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms C loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards interest, 
fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms C the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing for loan 4 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, and in my provisional decision.  I partly uphold Ms Cs 
complaint. Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman