DRN-3754774
The complaint
Ms O complains Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter (RateSetter) unfairly 
arranged a loan which was unaffordable for her.
Ms O is assisted in this matter by representatives. But, for ease, Ill refer to Ms O throughout.
What happened
In June 2019, Ms O entered into a peer-to-peer loan agreement arranged by RateSetter. 
The loan was for £15,000 with an APR of 15.9%. The total amount payable was £19,994.88 
over a term of 48 months. The monthly repayments were £416.56.
Ms O complained that the loan had been arranged irresponsibly. In summary, she said that 
at the time the loan was arranged, she was struggling financially and had a poor credit 
history.
RateSetter reviewed Ms Os complaint. It explained that it considered several factors such 
as reviewing credit profiles, credit history and affordability as well as information given in the 
application itself. Based on the information it had gathered, it didnt think it had arranged the 
loan irresponsibly. 
Ms O remained unhappy with RateSetters response, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators reviewed matters and thought that RateSetter had carried 
out proportionate checks into Ms Os circumstances. But she thought the decision it then 
made to facilitate the loan, based on what it saw from its checks, was irresponsible. 
Ms O didnt disagree with our investigators findings, but RateSetter did. In summary, it said 
its criteria was to use 45% of the applicants net monthly income for credit commitments and 
use the remainder for the applicants mortgage and other living expenses. Having done 
these calculations, it thought the loan was affordable and would leave Ms O with a surplus 
each month.
I contacted RateSetter informally and outlined that I was minded to uphold the complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I said I thought the checks it gathered would 
have indicated the loan was unlikely to be affordable or sustainable for Ms O. RateSetter 
disagreed with my thoughts and repeated its earlier points. 
This service then contacted the parties informally to explain I was still minded to uphold this 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. However, the redress outlined in 
our investigators view would be amended to reflect that Ms O is currently in an Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). This service then set out the recommended redress and 
allowed both parties time to come back with any comments. In summary, neither party 
provided any new information in relation to the redress change.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken on board all of RateSetters comments in response to my informal email 
before coming to my decision.
The rules and regulations in place at the time Ms O was provided with the loan, required 
RateSetter to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Ms O could 
afford to repay what she owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused. This means RateSetter had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms O. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for RateSetter to consider the likelihood of it getting the 
funds back  it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Ms O. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the lending. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent on a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they were seeking. Ive kept all of this 
in mind when thinking about whether RateSetter did what it needed to before arranging a 
loan for Ms O.
From the information Ive been provided with, RateSetter asked Ms O for information about 
her personal situation, the purpose of the loan and her income. Ms O told RateSetter that the 
loan was for home improvements. She declared her income as £15,000 per year, which was 
around £1,144.65 each month. RateSetter said it verified this information using a third-party 
and thought Ms Os income was likely to be what was outlined on the application. 
RateSetter also asked about Ms Os monthly commitments. There were no other recorded 
credit commitments on the application form. Its unclear whether this is because 
Ms O stated that she had no other credit commitments, or whether these questions werent 
answered. However, RateSetter didnt rely on this information from the application and 
instead reviewed Ms Os credit file to check this for itself.
 
RateSetters check showed Ms O had balances of £2,270 in existing credit. Ms O therefore 
wouldve likely needed to pay around £113 towards her existing credit commitments, in order 
to ensure she was making sustainable repayments towards the facilities, and not including 
the repayments on the loan RateSetter arranged. 
Ms O stated on the application form that she paid £350 each month towards her mortgage. 
However RateSetters credit check indicated that she was paying slightly more towards this, 
at £375 each month. Ms O was also asked about household income on the application form, 
and she stated this was £15,000  the same as her personal income. Ms O also said that 
she didnt have a partner at the time of the application. So, taking this into account alongside 
the information around the household income, I think its reasonable to conclude that Ms O 
was solely responsible for making her mortgage payments, and therefore other household 
expenditure too.
Alongside the above, Ive noted that RateSetter would have also been aware that the 
repayments on this loan were £416.56 each month, which alone is more than a third of 
Ms Os take-home pay. When considering this, alongside Ms Os mortgage and other credit commitments outlined above, Ms O would have been left with around £240 each month to 
cover all her other expenditure  and this isnt even taking into account any household bills, 
food and other monthly commitments or living costs. With this in mind, I think RateSetter 
shouldve known from the information it gathered that Ms O wouldve struggled to repay this 
loan and that it wasnt sustainable for her to maintain repayments towards. 
I note RateSetter has said it considers that 45% of an applicants net monthly income would 
be used for credit commitments, with the remainder being used for the applicants mortgage 
and other living expenses. Based on this, it calculated that the loan repayments were 
affordable as Ms O was left with a surplus each month. However I cant agree that in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Ms O would have been left with sufficient disposable 
income to live on. As outlined above, whilst Ms O would have likely been left with a surplus 
each month, Im not persuaded that it would have been very much once also factoring in any 
other living expenses, aside from her mortgage, which hadnt yet been considered. So, 
overall, Im persuaded that RateSetter shouldnt have arranged the loan for Ms O, and it 
needs to put matters right for her.
Fair compensation  what RateSetter should do to put things right
I note Ms O is currently in an IVA. With this in mind, to put things right for Ms O, RateSetter 
should:
Remove all interest and charges applied to the loan, and
Treat all payments Ms O has made as repayments towards the capital. If theres a 
surplus after doing the above, RateSetter should add interest at 8% per year simple 
on the surplus payments from the date they were paid, if they were, to the date of 
settlement*;
If that would have resulted in a balance due to Ms O, RateSetter should notify the 
insolvency practitioner who will determine how that balance should be distributed.
Either way, once Ms O has repaid the sum due to RateSetter under the IVA, 
RateSetter should remove the loan payment data from Ms Os credit file.
*If Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms O how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint and direct Retail Money Market Ltd 
trading as RateSetter to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman