DRN-3216332
The complaint
Mr F complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as Lloyds Bank Direct 
Investments (Lloyds) should not have sold him shares in a company which went into 
liquidation.
What happened
Mr F had an execution only stocks and shares ISA with Lloyds. In July and November 2017, 
he invested around £20,000 in total in a company Ill refer to as C. In January 2018, C went 
into liquidation and the shares were removed from Mr Fs account.
Mr F says Lloyds should not have sold the shares to him and he wants it to refund him for 
the loss hes made. He says he knew that share prices could fall, but he wasnt warned he 
could lose all his money.
Lloyds said it couldnt be held liable for Mr Fs loss because it didnt give advice and that it 
had made Mr F aware that the value of his investments could go down as well as up and that 
he might not get back the full amount he invested.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that, 
as Mr F had used a non-advised service, full responsibility for trading decisions lay with him, 
and not with Lloyds.
Mr F didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
It is now known that the directors of C gave misinformation to the markets. The shares 
were not fit for sale and were not as described. Lloyds should not have sold them to him.
If hed bought goods from a shop which were found to be not as described, he would be 
able to demand his money back even if the seller wasnt aware of the faults at the time of 
the sale. The same should apply to Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
The service provided by Lloyds is described in its terms and conditions. They say:
You can use the service to make deals in certain types of investments. You can do 
this by placing orders to deal through our online service or by using the telephone 
service.
I find Lloyds provided the service as described to Mr F  he was able to place purchase 
orders for C shares. So I do not find theres been a breach of contract which requires Lloyds 
to compensate Mr F.
Mr Fs account was an execution only account. There was no obligation on Lloyds to ensure 
that the shares were suitable for Mr F. And there was no obligation on Lloyds to restrict 
Mr Fs share purchases to ensure that anything which may not have been suitable wasnt 
available to him.
As part of its service, Lloyds provides information about the markets and shares to its 
customers. Its terms and conditions explain:
We may send you market information and market analysis but where we do so this 
will not constitute investment advice and any decision to deal in investments rests 
with you. (14.1)
If we provide market information, we use sources we believe to be reliable. If we use 
an independent information provider to provide market information, we will use all 
reasonable care and skill to choose that provider. But, because we and any provider 
may have limited or no control over the information sources, we cannot promise that 
the market information is accurate complete, timely or in the right order. You must 
satisfy yourself that market information is reliable before you make any decisions or 
take any actions based upon it. (14.3)
We are not responsible for any decision or action that you take or any loss that you 
or anybody else may suffer as a result of a decision or action taken on the basis of 
market information provided by us. (14.4)
I find Lloyds acted in line with these terms and I dont find that the terms are unreasonable or 
unfair. Lloyds made information about C shares available to Mr F. But that didnt amount to a 
recommendation for him to buy the shares. It was Mr Fs decision to buy C shares and 
Lloyds is not responsible for the loss that he suffered. I dont find the information that Lloyds 
provided to Mr F about C shares was wrong  in the sense that it reflected what was 
reasonably known about C shares. The misinformation only came to light after C had gone 
into liquidation.
I understand the point Mr F makes when he compares what has happened to him to buying 
something from a shop which subsequently turns out to be faulty. But the contract here was 
for Lloyds to provide a platform through which Mr F could trade. The contract makes it clear 
that Lloyds is not responsible for the trades Mr F decides to make.
Mr F says he knew the price of investments could fall as well as rise. But he says Lloyds 
didnt tell him he could lose all his money. Ive considered this carefully and I am satisfied 
that Lloyds met its regulatory obligations in ensuring Mr F was given the information he 
needed to decide if the share dealing service was right for him. I say this because:
The information on Lloyds website about its stocks and shares ISA includes the 
following information in a bold print:
Please remember that the value of investments and the income from them can 
fall as well as rise, and you may get back less than you invest. If youre not sure 
about investing, seek financial advice.
The terms and conditions include a section on Investment risks. (And this includes links 
to other documents including more detailed information about the risks involved in 
investing.The terms and condition say:
If you are in any doubt about using the service and making your own investment 
decisions, we recommend that you seek advice from a suitably qualified financial 
adviser. (4.5)
Whilst I appreciate the terms of the service are quite lengthy, I think the risks of 
investment and the recommendation to seek independent advice, were reasonably clear.
I am not unsympathetic to the position in which Mr F finds himself. But I dont find that Lloyds 
did anything wrong and I cant order it to compensate him for the loss hes made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman