DRN-3888535
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to refund £5,850 he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr S fell victim to an investment scam and complained that 
Lloyds should have prevented his loss. 
I issued my provisional findings to both parties in August 2023. I said I wasnt minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
I can see that the debate here has become about whether any intervention by Lloyds 
would have made a difference. However, I dont think that any human intervention 
was in fact required in this case in the first place.
I appreciate that Mr S says that Lloyds sent him an SMS message to confirm the 
£4850 payment he made on 27 July 2022 was genuine. But ultimately, Im satisfied 
this would have been a proportionate response in light of payment value and Mr Ss 
typical account activity. I can see that Mr S had made large payments by debit card 
before, for example, such as a payment of £1,200 made on 31 May 2022.
I accept that a payment £4,850 was larger than many other payments Mr S had 
made before. But it was also the second payment being made to what was by that 
point an already established (and legitimate) payee on his account. So, if Lloyds had 
concerns as to whether it was in fact Mr S making the payment, an SMS message 
was an appropriate way to confirm if it was indeed him making it. But otherwise, Im 
not persuaded Lloyds ought reasonably to have had any further concerns that he 
might have been falling victim to a scam, such that it ought to have spoken to him 
and questioned him about the payment at all.
As a result, I dont intend to uphold this complaint as I dont consider Lloyds had any 
significant reason to block the payment after Mr S confirmed it was genuine.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties, but neither party provided 
anything in response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party had anything further to add in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out above. 
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman