DRN-3277102
The complaint
Mr L complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2017, Mr L was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr L decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In September 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ls behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr L to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,750 to mislead Mr L, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £16,616;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr L or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr L and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mr L the whole of the quotation document on which 
the adjudicator had relied, only the parts which said he would make a profit;
the salesman had not taken Mr L through the quote in any detail;
being satisfied with what he had been told in the sales meeting, Mr L had not thought 
it necessary to rely on the quotation;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mr Ls claims were credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.1
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (32nd edition), paragraph 7-043 (corresponding to para. 9-051, 34th ed.).
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr L could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr L and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Bespoke Quote. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ls recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr L agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr L simply took the 
salesmans word for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at 
any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr L has 
simply forgotten seeing the quote over the three and a half years between the sale and the 
bringing of his claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotation did 
form a central part of the sales process when Mr L agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.Cost of the system and loan interest
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr L makes it clear that the overall cost of 
the system is £16,616. This sets out a clear breakdown of the cash price, the deposit, the 
amount of credit provided, the total charge for credit and the total amount repayable.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr L more than the cash price as he had decided 
to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
The credit agreement also clearly sets out the interest on the loan.
FIT payments
Mr L has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr L has said.
The contract, which is annexed to the quote, sets out the estimated income Mr L could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system, as well as the savings he could 
make on his electricity bill. This states that the total income and savings Mr L could expect to 
receive in year one was £408.75.
Theres a section headed Finance repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr L entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £92.42. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £91.76, but the difference  66p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative value in every 
year of the 15 year loan period, highlighted in red.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr L could expect to receive from the system, by 
way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. Whilst 
I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr L that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 66p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr L, immediately 
below the table, so Im satisfied that it was brought to his attention.Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr L was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
Another page of the quote, entitled What Will You Earn & Save Per Year? has a table 
detailing the estimated performance of the system over 25 years. This shows that by the end 
of year 15 the overall benefits that Mr L could expect to receive would have exceeded the 
cash price of the system.
I think this is prominently displayed, since the first 14 years are highlighted in red, and the 
subsequent years in green.
The same table indicates that it would take somewhere between 21 and 25 years for the 
system to pay for the total amount repayable under the loan (£16,616).
So Im satisfied that P told Mr L that the system would pay for its cash price in 15 years, and 
for the loan within 25 years, as supported by the graph and the table above. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that could potentially amount to a 
misrepresentation. I will go on to consider this next.
Performance
I have considered the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between P and Mr L. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2,249 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ls FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,377 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
The quote does not state the period over which this data was considered, but it could not 
have been later than 2016. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why Mr L hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr L could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr L entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr L to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr L to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman