DRN-1838483
 
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Allied Irish Banks Plc (AIB) dealt with his credit card payment.
What happened
Mr D says he posted a cheque to AIB on 23 May 2019 that cleared on 30 May 2019 which 
was well inside the due date of 5 June 2019 for the payment. He says he then received 
information that he had missed a credit card payment and felt concerned about the language 
used on that statement. Mr D says the balance was transferred to a third party business, and 
he was asked to pay more as a result of what took place.
AIB has not provided us with any information about what took place or explained if the 
payment was applied late and or why.
Mr D had brought his complaint to us about the other business and our investigator upheld 
his complaint against AIB. The investigator was able to conclude the cheque had not been 
transferred for nearly a month which led to the incorrect demand. The investigator accepted 
Mr D had been caused distress and inconvenience and recommended AIB pay £100 
compensation.
AIB has not responded to the investigator's view. 
Mr D says the compensation doesn't go far enough and believes AIB is trying to cover 
something up by not providing us with information. He also complains it hasn't complied with 
his Subject Access Request (SAR) and is unhappy with the process we now have to follow 
as a result of AIB's lack of co-operation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I appreciate that Mr D may be disappointed with my decision 
and I appreciate his frustration about AIB's lack of response to what took place.
The investigator has explained why this case requires an ombudsman's decision. And whilst 
I appreciate Mr D questions why that is the case, I'm satisfied that under our rules it is 
needed, so that any award is enforceable.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr D says about the timeline of the events here, and that his 
cheque was cashed before the due date. I can see that AIB sent the cheque to the business 
dealing with the debt at the end of June 2019, and AIB hasn't explained why that was the 
case. So I accept that Mr D was caused distress and inconvenience is trying to sort matters 
out and would have been concerned to have been told his payment hadn't been received.
Mr D hasn't told me he suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place but there is 
no doubt he would have spent some time trying to find out what took place. I'm satisfied that the compensation award recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr D will have unanswered questions about what took place and I also 
appreciate that his SAR has not been complied with.  I am sorry we can't help Mr D with 
those issues and I know he would have liked to have seen exactly what AIB had to say 
about what took place. We are not AIB's regulator and it is not our role to investigate a 
business, fine or punish it.
Putting things right
I intend to order AIB to pay Mr D £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Allied Irish Bank Plc to pay Mr D 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman