DRN-2824238
The complaint
Mr L says Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he had 
significant personal and financial problems which meant it wasnt appropriate to lend to him. 
He thinks that (H&T) should have found out about these and not approved the loans. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan H&T provided to Mr L in September 2015. Mr L 
borrowed £300 and he was due to make eight monthly repayments of £63.08. I understand 
Mr L hasnt fully repaid this loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He still thought that his financial circumstances were such that H&T shouldnt have lent to 
him. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that H&T should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint and have explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr L provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr L said he had a monthly income of £1,700 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
around £850. This left him with a declared disposable income of around £850. So, it was 
reasonable for H&T to think that the loan was affordable for him.  
Mr L has outlined some personal and financial difficulties he was having at the time, and I 
dont disagree that these were significant. I hope things have improved for him now. And the 
crux of Mr Ls objection to the lending is that he feels H&T should have made more in-depth 
checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen these problems and not lent to him. 
But given the amount he borrowed against his income, and that this was right at the start of 
a lending relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say H&T should have looked into his 
finances in more detail. As Ive said above, checks should be proportionate, this does mean 
a business could do less at the start of a lending relationship when the amounts borrowed 
look reasonable. I think this is the case here. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely H&T was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr L mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for H&T to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments H&T did for this loan were 
proportionate. So, I think its decision to approve the loan was reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mr Ls complaint about it. 
Lastly, I would remind H&T of its obligation to treat Mr L fairly in respect of any amounts he 
may still owe it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman