DRN-3291999
The complaint
Mrs C complains, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr C, that 
National Savings & Investments (NS&I) has failed to locate a premium bond. 
What happened
In 2021, Mrs C contacted NS&I to withdraw a premium bond, but she was advised the 
reference number shed provided didnt exist. This caused a great deal of worry, so Mrs C 
raised a complaint. 
Mrs C has the paperwork for the premium bond, which shows it was in her late husbands 
name. She says that when he passed away in 1988, the bond was transferred to her. She 
wants NS&I to locate the bond and pay out the money owed.
NS&I says that premium bonds arent transferable so when Mr C died, the bonds wouldve 
been repaid. Its located Mr Cs account which shows that two cheques were sent in 1991 for 
the sums of £950 and £250, which it says is likely to be repayment of the bonds. It says no 
bonds remain in the late Mr Cs name and his account is closed. 
Due to the amount of time thats passed, NS&I no longer hold the details of who the cheques 
were sent to. But as Mrs C is the executor to Mr Cs estate, it says the cheques wouldve 
been sent to her. It advises that Mrs C purchased premium bonds for the sum of £950 in 
1991, a few months after the cheques were sent.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said from the limited information available, 
its most likely this premium bond was paid to Mrs C by cheque. And it appears she may 
have used the funds to reinvest into bonds in her own name. As he was satisfied the 
premium bond in question no longer exists, he didnt think NS&I needed to do anything more 
to resolve this complaint. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She says she feels mentally disturbed to be told shes already received 
this money. Shes asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, so its been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In situations such as this, our service would expect a business to show that it undertook 
reasonable searches of the records it holds, to see whether any information on the premium 
bond can be found. NS&I has shown us that it undertook numerous searches, using the 
information provided by Mrs C, but there is no record of this bond number or any outstanding 
balance for the late Mr C. Having seen screenshots of NS&Is systems, Im satisfied that is 
the case. I cant reasonably require NS&I to do anything more than that. 
Mrs C is unhappy with the lack of information available. But I think its understandable given 
that over 30 years has passed since the late Mr C passed away. Businesses dont generally 
keep records for longer than six years and I cant say its unfair for NS&I to destroy its old 
records, especially where its complying with data retention laws. 
I appreciate Mrs C has the paperwork which shows a premium bond was held and there is 
no indication that it was closed. But this doesnt prove the bond still exists. Its common for 
bonds to be withdrawn without the original paperwork, provided NS&I was satisfied of the 
identity of the customer, or the executor of the estate in this case.
Having looked at everything, Im satisfied NS&I has acted fairly and reasonably when 
searching its records for this bond. Ive seen evidence that funds were paid out in 1991, 
following Mr Cs death and no outstanding balance is held for him. Ive also seen evidence 
that Mrs C purchased bonds several months later for the same amount that was paid out for 
Mr C. So Im persuaded that its most likely the bond was withdrawn and paid to Mrs C, 
which she reinvested in her own name. 
Its unfortunate, but not unexpected after over 30 years, that NS&I dont have any records to 
show exactly what happened. And in these circumstances all I can do is decide, on the 
balance of probabilities, what I think is most likely to have happened. Whilst I understand 
how Mrs C feels about this, I cant fairly hold NS&I responsible having reviewed all the 
available evidence. It therefore follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman