DRN-3938014
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt provide the service it should have when he tried 
to switch his account.
What happened
Mr P made two requests to switch his account through the Current Account Switch Service 
(CASS). He received messages from Monzo Bank saying that his requests had been 
rejected.
Monzo Bank issued a final response letter in April 2022. It said that Mr P had contacted it 
about switching his account and it had responded through its chat to say that the request 
was rejected as his personal details didnt match. It said he should check his details and 
needed to wait one working day before making another account switch request.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that there was a mismatch with the 
name information Monzo Bank had on its records and so it didnt do anything wrong by 
rejecting the requests. She said Mr P was told on calls why the switch hadnt happened. She 
noted that Mr P submitted his Subject Access Request (SAR) on 13 April and didnt get a 
response until 10 June 2022, more than 30 days later but she said this was a complex case.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that his banking app wasnt showing 
what the issue was and Monzo Bank didnt respond to his SAR in a timely way giving its final 
response without acknowledgement of the SAR. Mr P said that had a proper investigation 
taken place it would have been apparent sooner what the issue with his name was and this 
could have been resolved potentially before further switching attempts were made and the 
complaint may not have needed to be raised. Mr P said that the issue meant he missed out 
on an account switch incentive payment and had a hard search unnecessarily recorded on 
his credit file.
Following our investigators view, Mr P received a further final response letter from Monzo 
Bank dated 16 August 2022. It partially upheld Mr Ps complaint and acknowledged he 
hadnt been provided the service he should have when he raised his complaints and made 
his SAR. It paid him a total of £100 as compensation for the service issues and delays.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary: 
Mr P requested to switch his account from Monzo Bank on two occasions in April 
2022. I reviewed the account switching records from Monzo Bank and was satisfied 
both requests were rejected due to the account party details not matching. I 
appreciated this was frustrating, but Mr P was informed the requests had been 
rejected and told the reason.
Mr P contacted Monzo Bank using the chat facility and he also called. He was told 
the mismatch occurred with his name and that he should check his details in the 
Monzo Bank app and then if they were correct to check with the other bank to ensure 
there was a match. I didnt think this was an unreasonable response for Monzo Bank 
to give. And I thought this information was provided in a clear and timely way, 
showing they were attempting to assist Mr P. 
On Mr Ps second call he said he had checked his name information and that was 
correct and that he thought the issue may have been due to a slight difference in how 
his address was recorded. However, Monzo Bank confirmed the issue wasnt Mr Ps 
address but a mismatch with his name details. Given this I dont think Monzo did 
anything wrong or that any of its responses to assist were unreasonable.
Mr P raised a SAR and said this wasnt responded to in a timely way and he needed 
to chase for this. The SAR was submitted on 13 April 2022 and a response sent on 
10 June 2022. This fell outside of the expected one-month response period. Our 
investigator noted that additional time can be allowed for complex cases. In this 
situation I agreed with Mr Ps comments that there werent reasons to consider his 
SAR complex and it would have been reasonable to expect a response within the 
one-month timeframe.
Since our investigator issued her view, Monzo Bank provided a further final response 
letter partially upholding Mr Ps complaint about how his SAR was handled. It noted 
that his initial request wasnt actioned and that he had to chase this and that there 
were delays in this process. It said it would pay him a total of £100 for the issues he 
had experienced.
Mr P also raised concerns about how his complaint was set up and handled, noting 
the receipt of two separate complaint numbers. I explained that Issues specifically to 
do with how a business handles a complaint fall outside of our jurisdiction so I didnt 
consider this aspect further. Although I noted this was addressed and compensation 
provided in Monzo Banks 16 August 2022 final response letter.
Overall, while I appreciated that Mr P hadnt experienced the service, he should have 
I didnt find Monzo Bank did anything wrong in regard to the account switching 
process. It acknowledged the service issues with the SAR and awarded 
compensation. Noting the time taken for the SAR response but also that Mr P had 
previously been provided with information about why his account switch requests 
were rejected, I thought the compensation awarded by Monzo Bank was reasonable. 
Therefore, I didnt require it to do anything further.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number of points and arguments through this investigation, and I can 
assure him that Ive considered all of them. Having done so I do not find that I can say 
Monzo Bank did anything wrong in regard to Mr Ps complaint about the account switching 
process. As I set out in my provisional decision, when Mr Ps switching requests were 
rejected, Monzo Bank informed him of the reason and tried to assist him by suggesting what 
could be done to resolve the issue. So, while I understand this was frustrating for Mr P I do 
not find that Monzo Bank did anything wrong in its handling of Mr Ps account switch 
request.Mr P raised a SAR and there was a delay in the information being provided. Monzo Bank 
accepted that it hadnt provided the service it should have and offered to pay compensation 
because of this. Having considered the length of the delay and that information had 
previously been provided about the issue with the account switching process, I find this 
compensation reasonable.
Overall, while I appreciate the frustration Mr P has experienced when trying to switch his 
account, for the reasons I have already explained, I do not require Monzo Bank to do 
anything further in resolution of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman