DRN-2581660
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) unfairly 
declined a claim under her furniture warranty policy.
What happened
Mrs B bought some new sofas in April 2018 and took out a furniture warranty policy with 
Acasta at the same time.
In June 2020, Mrs B made a claim for accidental damage and staining after her grandson 
was sick on one of the sofas. She filled out two online forms to claim for the damage, but 
Acasta declined the claim, saying the damage wasnt covered because it wasnt caused by a 
one-off sudden event.
Mrs B complained to Acasta, saying she wouldve expected damage caused by a baby being 
sick and food spillage to be covered. She said shed had to replace the sofa covers herself 
through the retailer, so the warranty was no longer needed. Mrs B asked Acasta for a refund 
of her premiums  and also said shed never received a certificate of insurance or the terms 
and conditions of the warranty. 
Acasta said it had sent the terms and conditions to Mrs B in May 2018  but to an incorrect 
email address it was given by the retailer. It re-sent the terms and conditions to Mrs B, but 
said it wouldnt give her a refund of her premiums. 
Unhappy with Acastas final response, Mrs B referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said Acasta 
had applied the exclusion in the policy fairly and that Mrs B wasnt entitled to a refund of her 
premiums. 
Because Mrs B disagreed with our investigators assessment, the complaint has come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs B initially filled out the online claim form in June 2020, she reported that the 
damage had built up, rather than happening suddenly. The second time Mrs B completed 
the form in July 2020, she reported that the damage had occurred suddenly. Acasta declined 
the claim on both occasions. And Ive thought carefully about whether it was fair for it to do 
so, based on the information Mrs B provided.
Ive looked at the detail Mrs B gave on each of the online forms she filled out. On the first 
form, Mrs B said the damage was general soiling and had built up. She also noted baby 
sick and general accident spillage, but did not give the size of the affected area.
The terms and conditions of the warranty say that the gradual accumulation of stain or dye 
transfer or by accumulated multiple stains or by unidentifiable stain(s) is not covered. So, 
based on what Mrs B recorded on the first online form, I dont think it was unfair for Acasta to 
rely on this exclusion in the policy. I say this because, I think it was reasonable for Acasta to 
conclude, from what Mrs B wrote, that the claim related to a gradual accumulation of a stain 
or accumulated multiple stains, for which the warranty did not provide cover.
On the second online form, Mrs B noted that the damage was crush marks and that it was 
caused by baby sick and food spillage. Although Mrs B changed her answer to the 
question about how the damage happened, from built up to suddenly  I still dont think it 
was unreasonable for Acasta to decline the claim, relying on the same exclusion as before. 
This is because the damage appeared to be the same damage reported on the first form, 
despite some of the answers having been changed. 
However, Acasta wrote to Mrs B giving her the opportunity to provide further information in 
order for it to determine whether the incident was a one-off event and whether its decision to 
decline the claim was correct. 
Ive considered all the correspondence between Mrs B and Acasta, during which I can see 
Mrs B refused to provide any more details about the stain and explained she had already 
replaced the covers and wanted a refund of her premiums. Mrs B could have provided 
further information in her email exchanges with Acasta, but as she refused to do so, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Acasta to decline the claim, based on all the information it had 
been given.
I appreciate that since our investigator sent his view of this complaint, Mrs B has responded 
to say that the damage was caused suddenly by her grandson being sick. However, Mrs B 
also sent an email to the retailer in July 2020, clarifying that thered been a couple of 
incidents of spillage of food and baby sick and so  as gradual damage caused by the 
accumulation of multiple stains wasnt covered under the warranty  Acastas decision to 
apply the exclusion it did and decline the claim seems fair.
Looking at the cancellation terms of the warranty, I can see that premiums can be refunded if 
the policy is cancelled within 14 days of the receipt of the certificate of insurance, as long as 
no claims have been made. Both parties have accepted that Mrs B didnt receive her 
certificate of insurance until July 2020, but as she had made a claim by this point, Im 
satisfied that Acastas decision not to refund Mrs Bs premiums isnt unreasonable.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I wont be requiring Acasta to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman