DRN-2164500
The complaint
Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2006. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ms credit card account when she phoned Capital One to activate her credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Mrs M mainly said she never agreed to take out PPI and it wasnt something she wanted or 
needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M is certain that she wouldnt have consented to taking out PPI. But I cant uphold this 
complaint just based on what Mrs M says. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
Theres no call recording of the phone call when Mrs M was sold this PPI. So I cant know 
exactly what was said. But I wouldnt expect Capital One to have kept phone recordings from 
2006. So this isnt a reason for me to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  
Capital One has provided a call script which it says its adviser wouldve followed when 
speaking with Mrs M on the phone. Although I cant be sure it was followed exactly, I've no 
reason to think that Capital One wouldnt have followed its usual sales process when 
speaking to Mrs M. 
Capital One had already sent Mrs M the credit card shed applied for, even though she 
hadnt asked for PPI. So, I think Mrs M wouldve known it was open to her not to take out 
PPI if she didnt want to have it. 
The call script prompted the sales adviser to outline the benefits that PPI could offer. And 
looking at what shes said about her financial situation at the time, it does seem to me that 
the policy offered Mrs M protection that was potentially useful to her. 
So, on balance, I think its more likely that during the phone call Mrs M was persuaded of the 
benefits that PPI offered her and she asked for it to be added on to her credit card account. 
From then on, shed have been able to see from her monthly credit card statements that she 
was paying for PPI. So if PPI hadnt been something Mrs M wanted, or she changed her 
mind after the call, I think its likely Mrs M wouldve taken that up with Capital One or the 
insurer straightaway. I've seen nothing to make me think she did that at the time. 
So, looking at all this information, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Capital One 
added PPI to Mrs Ms credit card without her knowledge or consent. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Capital One made Mrs M aware that having PPI was 
optional and it was added to her account when she chose to have it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it still needed to give her enough clear information about the policy so she could 
decide for herself if it was right for her. And if that didnt happen, I need to think about 
whether this makes any overall difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. 
But Mrs M chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. 
And I cant reasonably say that Mrs M couldnt have benefitted from the PPI. 
She mentioned that she was entitled to between 3 and 6 months sick pay from her employer. 
But the policy wouldve paid more than her minimum credit card repayments for up to 
12 months in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. 
As Mrs M mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to work or disabled, 
I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time.
Also, the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs M lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
The policy wouldve cleared the card balance if Mrs M had successfully claimed for the 
whole 12 months it could potentially have paid out. 
Death in service benefit pays out in different circumstances to PPI. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs M if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mrs M told us she had some savings when she took out this 
credit card. But I dont know if she wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to 
make a claim. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So it looks like the policy offered Mrs M useful benefits and I can see why she mightve 
wanted to take it out - even if shes forgotten this now.Mrs M wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. The policy was 
apparently affordable for her. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs M has said in response to the adjudicators assessment. 
But, for the reasons I've explained, this doesnt change my decision.
Looked at overall, I think Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better 
informed. The policy gave her worthwhile protection in her particular situation. So I dont 
think clearer information wouldve stopped her buying it.
This means Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. 
Because Capital One (Europe) plc didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman