DRN-3423426
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc mishandled his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr C decided to replace his up and over garage door for ones that opened using side 
hinges as this would be easier for him to use. He arranged for some quotations and chose a 
retailer to supply and fit the new hinged garage doors. Mr C says he was told he would have 
to wait for the doors to be made and believed he was being supplied with doors that were 
made to measure.
In February 2020 Mr C paid half the cost of the doors via the credit card he held with 
Sainsburys Bank as a deposit. This amounted to £512. In March 2020, and on the day the 
doors were supplied and fitted, Mr C paid the balance of £512 again via credit card.
The fitters removed the original garage door as agreed and fitted the new ones. Mr C says 
that it was quickly apparent that these new doors hadnt been made to measure and were 
too small for the space left by the original door. Mr C says there was a two and half inch gap 
around the doors and he couldnt fit his wifes wheelchair through the door as hed believed 
he would be able to.
Mr C complained to the retailer about the state of the doors and they returned to address the 
gap. However, Mr C says he was unhappy at the standard of the remedial work as it looked 
as though they had used scrap pieces of timber and they had made mistakes with some drill 
holes. In total the retailer sent the fitters around on three separate occasions. 
In October 2020 Mr C contacted Sainsburys Bank and made a claim as he thought the 
garage doors and had been misrepresented as they werent made to measure and that there 
had been a breach of contract due to the poor fitting.
Sainsburys Bank firstly considered Mr Cs claim under the chargeback scheme but didnt 
pursue this process as it was now outside the time-limit. It then looked at his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sainsburys gathered evidence from both Mr C 
and the retailer. Mr C provided Sainsburys Bank with a series of photos depicting the quality 
of the fitting and the ongoing issues with the door. Mr C also said that the lock had jammed 
on the doors.
The retailer disputed Mr Cs claim and said that he had ordered standard sized doors and 
that both the doors and the installation were of a satisfactory quality. It asked that Mr C 
provide an independent report setting out whether there had been a breach of contract as to 
the doors installation.  
In June 2021 Sainsburys Bank sent Mr C its final response letter. It said that the onus rested 
with Mr C to show there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the retailers 
part. And that Mr C needed to provide an independent report to support his claim. 
Sainsburys Bank said that without a report it wouldnt be able to establish if the retailer had 
breached the contract.
Sainsburys Bank also said that in respect of the jammed lock, Mr C would need to contact 
the retailer in accordance with the warranty. However, if the retailer refused to assist then he 
should send a copy of the warranty and the reasons given by the retailer to Sainsburys 
Bank and it would look into investigating that matter.
Sainsburys Bank acknowledged it had had taken too long to respond to Mr Cs complaint 
and offered him £50 as compensation.
Mr C was unhappy at the response from Sainsburys Bank. He looked into obtaining a report 
but said that he was advised that cladding around the doors would need to be removed and 
that this could cause further damage, He also said he thought it was unfair he had to pay for 
the report in the circumstances. Mr C complained to this service.
During the investigation, the retailer arranged for the jammed lock to be repaired. This 
resulted in new doors being fitted in August 2021. However, Mr C said these doors were still 
too small being a replica of the original and that the fitting had also been of a poor standard.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He said there 
wasnt enough evidence to show the doors had been mispresented as the invoice stated the 
size and model of doors to be supplied and these had been provided to Mr C. 
In regard to the fitting of the garage doors, although our investigator said he could see from 
the photos sent in by Mr C that there may be an argument as to the quality of the 
workmanship, he didnt think it was conclusive. That was because neither he nor Sainsburys 
Bank were experts in garage fitting and the retailer, who was the only party with experience 
in this area, had argued that the work and the following remedial work was of a satisfactory 
quality.
Our investigator said that he thought Sainsburys Banks request for an independent report 
had been reasonable. And although our investigator said he appreciated Mr Cs concerns 
about getting such a report done, the burden of proof lay with Mr C to show there had been a 
breach of contract. This was due to Mr C making his claim after more than six months from 
the garage doors being supplied and fitted.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. He said there was annotations on the quote that 
had been misleading and that he had been told the doors were going to be made to 
measure. He said that although the doors had now been replaced, they were still too small 
and that a yale lock had been fitted upside down.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider here was whether Sainsburys Bank has handled Mr Cs 
claim for reimbursement of the cost of the garage doors fairly. Mr Cs complaint has 
raised both that the doors were misrepresented and that their subsequent poor fitting 
amounts to a breach of contract. 
When Mr C made his claim to Sainsburys Bank, Ive seen that it was only considered 
under section 75. Sainsburys Bank says it was out of time for a claim under the chargeback scheme to be considered. 
Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made on the card 
through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card 
networks. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with 
the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. Under the scheme rules a chargeback claim needs 
to be raised between 15 and 120 calendar days from the delivery/cancellation date of the 
goods or services. Looking at the chronology of events here, I agree that more than 120 
days had passed from the garage doors being supplied and fitted and Mr Cs claim to 
Sainsburys Bank. I think Sainsburys Bank acted reasonably in not pursuing a claim under 
the chargeback.
Ive seen that Sainsburys Bank then moved the claim on to its section 75 team. The general 
effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) is that if a consumer has 
paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a credit card, and they have a 
claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider which here is Sainsburys 
Bank. 
Looking first at whether there was a misrepresentation about the garage doors to Mr C. I 
need to be satisfied on the evidence that the retailer had made an untrue statement of 
fact and that this statement had induced Mr C to enter into the contract. Here, Mr C says 
that he believed the garage doors were being made to measure and that the retailer took 
several measurements when they attended his property. The retailer says that Mr C 
bought standard sized doors and had chosen not to proceed with the made to measure 
doors due to the additional cost involved.
I dont know what was said between Mr C and the retailer, but looking at the quote that 
was provided to Mr C, I can see that it lists two models of doors, one being more 
expensive than the other and the more expensive is noted as made to measure option. 
The cheaper model has the size shown. Looking at the invoice that has been produced, 
this shows Mr C has chosen the cheaper model which came in the standard size. Mr C 
says the annotations on the quote were confusing, and although I appreciate he may 
have misunderstood but I think the annotations show one price for one model which was 
in standard size and a more expensive price for the made to measure option. The quote 
also shows that a price was agreed for the standard fitting doors of £1,025.
Mr C has sent in a quote he received from another company which he says was for made to 
measure garage doors and received in February 2020. The cost of these doors is close to 
the price paid by Mr C for the standard doors that he was supplied with by the retailer. 
Although I appreciate Mr Cs point that the doors werent cheaper than made to measure 
ones when looking at this quote, I dont think its clear whether these doors were to be 
provided in a bespoke size or a standard size. So, I cant reasonably say that this evidence 
supports the view that the retailer isnt correct when it says Mr C selected the standard sized 
doors over the bespoke size due to the added cost.
So, here there is a conflict between what Mr C says happened and what the retailer says 
happened. Looking at the documentary evidence, I dont think this resolves the issue and 
Ive seen the size of the doors is clearly set out in the quote for the doors Mr C ultimately 
chose. I therefore think that Sainsburys Bank acted reasonably in concluding there was 
insufficient information to say a misrepresentation had occurred.
Looking next at whether there was a breach of contract, I think it is important to note that 
Sainsburys Bank hasnt reached a firm conclusion. What it has said is that further evidence is required in the form of an independent report and without this it wont be able to find that a 
breach of contract has occurred.
Im satisfied on the evidence that Ive seen that the garage doors and frame which were 
ordered were supplied to Mr C. So, there isnt a breach of contract arising from the supplying 
of the items to Mr C.
However, Mr C says that the retailer has made a poor job fitting the garage doors and this 
amount s to breach of the contract. He has provided photos of the issues such as the 
remaining gaps around the doors and the methods used by the fitters to fill them. I 
understand that even though the original doors have been replaced because they are again 
too small the same issues have arisen with the fitting including the yale lock having been 
fitted upside down.
Looking at the photos, Im not able to reasonably judge whether the doors are unsafe as 
raised by Mr C but I havent seen any evidence that they arent safe and useable. I also have 
to take into account that the doors were smaller than the gap left when the original garage 
door was removed so there would have been fitting issues. Ive seen that the retailer 
returned to the garage several times to address the fitting. I think this shows that they 
accepted the fitting wasnt straight forward as they undertook remedial work and havent 
charged Mr C any additional costs for that. However, although I accept from the photos the 
fitting doesnt look very neat and there are some gaps remaining, I cant say from my own 
knowledge that the fitting wasnt of a satisfactory quality in the circumstances. And Ive seen 
that the retailer doesnt accept there was an issue with the way in which the doors were 
installed.
I think that in light of the evidence, Sainsburys Bank was acting reasonably in requiring an 
independent report to establish the quality of the fitting since it was faced with such opposing 
views from Mr C and the retailer. I also think that in light of the time that has passed since 
the doors had been installed and that new doors were then provided, that the burden is on 
Mr C to show the fitting wasnt satisfactory and the repair has failed.
I can appreciate Mr Cs reluctance to arrange a report as this is an additional expense and 
may cause some damage due to the necessary inspection, but without this report there isnt 
sufficient evidence that there has been a breach of contract. I appreciate Mr C says the yale 
lock has been fitted upside down in the new doors, but it would be disproportionate to say 
that meant the fitting of the doors wasnt satisfactory as I think its reasonable to assume this 
would be a relatively simple fix. Ive seen that the retailer is aware of this issue, though I 
dont know if it has agreed to fix it. The doors are covered by a warranty so I would expect 
this fault to be corrected by the retailer. If it isnt then I would expect Sainsburys Bank to 
investigate that further for Mr C.
For the reasons given above, I dont think Sainsburys Bank has handled Mr Cs claim 
unfairly. Ive seen it acknowledged there was delay in its dealing with his complaint and has 
provided compensation for that. But, I dont think its requirement for an independent report in 
these circumstances was unreasonable nor was it unfair to expect Mr C to cover that cost 
(though if a breach were to be found then I would expect the cost to be reimbursed). The 
burden is on Mr C to provide sufficient evidence to support his claim. Im therefore not 
upholding Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr C but for the reasons set out above Im not 
upholding his complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman