DRN-3475287
The complaint
Mr H complains HSBC UK Bank Plc have blocked his account twice but failed to tell him 
about it. 
What happened
Mr H has a bank account with HSBC. 
Mr H says he went into the branch to get a statement and withdraw some money. He says 
he wasnt able to withdraw any since his bank card didnt work, and so asked HSBC why.
 
HSBC told him it had sent him a letter to his home address but it had been returned as 
undelivered. And so the account was blocked. Mr H says he spent 60 minutes in the branch 
trying to get his account unblocked.  
Mr H wasnt happy HSBC didnt tell him the account was being blocked. He wants an 
assurance from the bank that it would alert him when it was going to block his account. But 
HSBC didnt respond to that point, and so Mr H complained. 
HSBC said its process is that if mail to its customers is returned to it a block is put on the 
account. It says it does this to protect accounts. And once the customer has contacted the 
bank it can take steps to remove the block. So HSBC didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response from HSBC and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she thought HSBC had acted 
within the terms of the account and so she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H remained 
dissatisfied so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From reviewing the submissions I understand much of Mr Hs frustration is to do with what is 
permitted under HSBCs policies. I think it would be helpful to be clear that the role of our 
service is to resolve disputes on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the individual case  so it is not to interfere with HSBCs commercial 
decision about how and when it agrees to contact its customers. If our service finds that 
something has gone wrong, our role is then to decide a fair way to put things right for the 
individual as if the error had never occurred. 
If Mr H has wider concerns about HSBCs policies he is free to highlight those with the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Having considered the evidence provided to me Im not upholding this complaint. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr H. 
Blocking the account 
I can see from the information provided to me that HSBC have policies in place which allow 
it to restrict or block customer accounts in certain circumstances, including when 
correspondence isnt delivered. HSBC sent Mr H a bank statement to his home address. The 
letter was returned and so, as per bank policy, HSBC placed a block on the account. Whilst I 
can appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mr H he was in a branch when he 
realised what had happened. And so was able to arrange for the block to be removed the 
same day. Im please the inconvenience to Mr H was short lived. 
Since its HSBCs policy to place a block on accounts where post is returned, as explained 
above, Im not able to interfere with how it decides to run its business. And so I cant say 
HSBC has done anything wrong here since it has followed its own procedures.
Alert to customer when block placed on account
Mr H complains that HSBC didnt contact him to advise that his account had been blocked. 
And so he only became aware when he attempted to use the card and it didnt work. HSBC 
have told me when the letter was returned undelivered a block was placed on the account. 
And its policy says in these circumstances the bank cannot inform the customer about that. 
Im satisfied HSBC followed its policy. And I do not have powers to tell HSBC to change its 
policies since these are commercial decisions its entitled to make. 
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H I havent seen anything 
which suggests HSBC has departed from its own policies and procedures or treated Mr H 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman