DRN-2382990
The complaint
Miss S complains about N26 Bank GmbHs decision to restrict and subsequently close her 
account and add a fraud marker against her. Miss S would like the money which was left in 
her account returned to her, the fraud marker removed and compensation for the emotional 
distress this situation has caused.
What happened
Miss S opened an account with N26 in October 2018.
In July 2019, Miss S received a £25,000 credit into her account. The money was sent by a 
third-party individual who requested Miss S purchase bitcoins on their behalf.
 
The payment flagged for review and N26 contacted Miss S about it. Miss S explained that 
she didnt want to admit to N26 about her bitcoin trading, so she told them the money was 
for rent and provided them with a false tenancy agreement.
A police investigation followed, and Miss S admitted that the tenancy agreement was fake. 
Miss S says she told the police that the individual had sent her money to purchase bitcoins, 
and she would then take a fee which would act like a salary. Miss S told our service that the 
police tried to interview the third-party individual who sent Miss S the money but were 
unsuccessful. 
Following this, in February 2020, N26 closed Miss S account with no notice. At the time, 
around £5,900 was left in the account which Miss S explained belonged to her. N26 havent 
returned the money to Miss S despite Miss S sending evidence to show she is entitled to it.
In April 2020, Miss S learned that N26 had also placed a fraud marker against her for first 
party fraud. Miss S disputes this as she says the police found her innocent and even if the 
£25,000 which was credited to her account was fraudulent, it didnt belong to her so she 
shouldnt be punished for it. Miss S confirmed the police investigation concluded and found 
no charge against Miss S.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss S complaint. In summary, she said that N26 were 
entitled to close Miss S account in the way they did, and she didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong by not returning the remaining money in the account to Miss S. And our 
investigator thought N26 were fair in applying the fraud marker.
Miss S didnt agree. A solicitor is representing Miss S and they responded on her behalf. In 
summary, they said:
The fraud marker doesnt meet the Standard of Proof which is required;
 N26 must be satisfied that Miss S has committed fraud to apply the marker;
Trading crypto-currency isnt illegal, and there are no exclusions contained in N26s 
terms and conditions relating to the use of cryptocurrencies;
The police have found that no criminal offence was made by Miss S;
No complaint has been made to N26 by other banks or customers and the 
statements show Miss S trading in goods or services;
Miss S conducted due diligence with all her customers, which has discouraged 
fraudsters and money launderers from using her service;
N26 should remove the marker if they cant justify their reasoning to the criminal 
standard;
The fraud marker has been entered incorrectly as it relates to first party fraud and 
misuse of facilities, and all of Miss S trades were legitimate.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Miss S and her representatives have made a number of quite detailed 
submissions and also provided evidence to show Miss S eligibility of the remaining money in 
her account. Like the investigator, Ive considered all of these, but I dont believe its 
necessary to address each and every point Miss S has made in order to meet my statutory 
duty to determine her complaint. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that 
Miss S, her representative and N26 have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information N26 has provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential.
Were N26 entitled to review, block and close Miss S account?
N26 are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied N26 were acting in line with 
these obligations when reviewing, blocking and subsequently closing Miss S account.
N26 are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and its 
often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Miss S case, she received a 
payment of £25,000 into her account which was flagged for a review. Im pleased to see N26 
asked Miss S about this transaction.
Miss S has explained that she didnt want to tell N26 the real reason why she received the 
payment. Miss S says she was self-employed, and she would act like a middle man for 
individuals wanting to trade bitcoins. Miss S explained to our service that she would receive 
money, trade bitcoins on individuals behalf and she would take a fee which would act like 
her salary. But Miss S told N26 the payment was for rent and forged a tenancy agreement 
which she sent to them. N26 then carried out a full review of Miss S account.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Miss S account and Im satisfied N26s actions 
were in line with these when reviewing and subsequently closing Miss S account so I cant 
fairly conclude that N26 have acted unfairly.
Ultimately, Miss S provided N26 with false information and false documentation. N26 then 
carried out a review into Miss S account and subsequently decided they didnt want her as a 
customer. I appreciate this may have been disappointing for Miss S and no doubt it put her 
in a financially challenging situation, but N26 can choose who they do business with. The 
same way if Miss S decided to move her account elsewhere, she wouldnt need to tell N26 the reasons why. I also recognise that Miss S is satisfied that N26 are entitled to end the 
relationship with her so I dont find this point is in dispute, but I thought it would be useful to 
confirm that Im satisfied N26 acted fairly.
Are N26 entitled to retain the money from Miss S account?
N26 shared copies of indemnities theyd received from other banks relating to payments paid 
in to Miss S account. I appreciate Miss S has provided a lot of information and evidence as 
to why she is entitled to the money in her account, so Ive considered Miss S evidence 
alongside the indemnities provided by N26.
Having considered the evidence, Im more persuaded by the indemnities from the third-party 
banks which have been sent to N26 to request to send the money back. The indemnities 
provide clear explanations of the fraud which occurred, Miss S account details and the time 
and date they were transferred. The indemnities have also been raised by different banks 
and from different customers. Miss S evidence includes the purchase of bitcoins, some chat 
transcripts but it doesnt show any substantial evidence that the third-party individuals 
transferred money willingly into Miss S account for the reasons she has stated. Therefore, 
on the balance of probabilities Im more persuaded that Miss S was in receipt of customers 
money who had fallen victim to scams.
The practice of providing indemnities in situations like this is well established. It gives 
business and consumers protection on recalling money when the money in question isnt 
rightfully owned. In this case, several third-party banks asked N26 to return the money to 
them because it was reported as fraud by their own customer and therefore the third-party 
bank would be at a loss. Ive considered the indemnities and I agree it was appropriate for 
N26 to return the money to the third-party banks. It therefore follows that I am satisfied, 
based on the evidence Ive received, that Miss S isnt entitled to the money which remained 
in her account. And once N26 honoured the indemnities by returning the money, there was 
no outstanding balance left in Miss S account.
In summary, banks must be able to talk to each other to protect their own money. And this is 
what has happened here. The other banks were at a loss because of the transfers made to 
Miss S account from multiple customers and transactions. So, the other banks exercised 
their right to claim their money back by raising an indemnity. I appreciate Miss S feels she is 
at a loss because of this, but based on what Ive seen, I cant be satisfied that Miss S was 
ever rightfully entitled to the money which was left in her account after N26 decided to close 
it.
Was the fraud marker applied fairly?
Following their review, N26 placed a fraud marker against Miss S name with CIFAS, the 
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System.
The marker that N26 have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a misuse 
of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss S is guilty of a 
fraud of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
 There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and] 
 The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, 
an illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
I appreciate Miss S has explained that a police investigation has since taken place, and no 
criminal charge was made against her. But that in itself doesnt mean N26 cant take the 
action they did. I must also remind Miss S that the police investigation relates to only one 
payment of £25,000, whereas N26s review was of her whole account.
Based on the information N26 has shared with our service, Im satisfied that fraudulent funds 
did enter Miss S account on numerous occasions. Miss S has also provided documentation 
to show her eligibility of the funds which satisfies me that it has entered her account and she 
was aware. Miss S has explained that the reason she received the payments were to 
purchase bitcoins for other individuals on their behalf. But that version of events doesnt 
coincide with the indemnities raised. And given the amount of indemnities by different 
individuals, the amount of fraud reports raised against Miss S and Miss S initial deception 
when asked about the origin of the £25,000 credit, Im satisfied N26 have enough evidence 
to meet the needs of a CIFAS marker.
Overall
Overall, Im satisfied N26 were entitled to review Miss S account and they closed it in line 
with their terms and conditions. Im also satisfied N26 has met the standard of proof to 
register a CIFAS marker and thats because Im satisfied Miss S was most likely deliberately 
complicit when receiving numerous funds which were transferred to her account from third-
party individuals. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman