DRN-3540747
The complaint
Mr H, represented by Mrs H, complains that Phoenix Life Limited cancelled his policy by 
mistake. He would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
him.
What happened
Mr H has a whole of life assurance policy with Phoenix Life. It was set up to pay a set lump 
sum if he passed away and costs the same monthly premium throughout.
In August 2021 Mrs H wrote to Phoenix on Mr Hs behalf complaining about the policy. She 
explained that they now had a cremation policy which has been paid for upfront and felt the 
Phoenix policy should pay for this. Mrs H explained that shed mentioned cancelling the 
policy but she hadnt asked them to do this, it was part of the question relating to the 
cremation they had paid for upfront.
Whilst Mr and Mrs H were on holiday, Phoenix wrote to Mr H to confirm the policy had been 
cancelled. It also explained it had investigated the complaint but couldnt pay for their 
cremation plans. Mr H complained that the policy had been cancelled without his consent. 
Mrs H, on his behalf, explained that there were errors in Phoenixs letter, Phoenix had no 
right to cancel their policy or their standing order and that they shouldve taken time to 
investigate first.
Phoenix then reinstated the policy, told Mr H that it had waived the premium, contrary to the 
standard wording in the reinstatement letter and asked for a new direct debit mandate to be 
completed. Mr H referred his complaint to our service as he felt that Phoenix had made too 
many errors.
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the letter Mrs H had sent on behalf of 
Mr H contained Mr Hs signature and asked for the policy to be cancelled. He didnt think 
Phoenix had acted incorrectly in cancelling it. He also said that there was an error in the final 
response letter referring to a telephone call that hadnt happened, but that when Mr and Mrs 
H explained they didnt want the policy cancelled, Phoenix was quick to reinstate it. He didnt 
think it had acted unreasonably.
Mr H disagreed. Mrs H, on his behalf made the following points about the complaint:
- Phoenix was too quick to cancel the policy, no investigation was done and it 
shouldve taken 30 days to investigate an contact Mr and Mrs H about it.
- The complaint handler said how were we to know you were on holiday which shows 
there wasnt an investigation done and they didnt know enough to cancel the policy.
- Phoenix were only quick to reinstate the policy as it was their mistake.
- They would settle for compensation of £100 per month that this complaint has been 
ongoing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think Phoenix has acted 
unreasonably.
The letter that was sent to Phoenix, which was signed by Mr H and didnt appear to be from 
anyone other than him, said the following:
I have paid for my cremation up front, so I would like to cancel my policy and have my 
cremation cost or some off paid for by my insurance.
As the letter contained the words I would like to cancel my policy I can understand why 
Phoenix went ahead and did this. I understand Mrs H feels Phoenix shouldve investigated 
this issue first, but I dont think theres any ambiguity to the statement above and it suggests 
that Mr H wanted to cancel his policy.
I can see that Phoenix was quick to send a response to Mr Hs complaint, and Mrs H feels 
this wasnt right. But I can see that Phoenix had looked into the complaint points and 
provided Mr H with an answer. When Mr H said he didnt want his policy cancelled, Phoenix 
was quick to reinstate it. The original letter sent to Phoenix was dated 20 August 2021 and 
Phoenix reinstated the policy on 7 September 2021. Although I dont think Phoenix acted 
unfairly in cancelling Mr Hs policy Im pleased to see it reinstated it quickly, and said it would 
waive a premium.
Its clear there was an error in Phoenixs letter referring to a phone call that didnt happen. 
But Phoenix addressed this. And whilst Mr and Mrs H may have been on holiday when 
Phoenix cancelled the policy, I dont think it acted unreasonably in doing so.
I can see that Mr and Mrs H were upset they had to complete another direct debit mandate 
when they had left out their bank account number, but Phoenix had asked them to complete 
and return the form, and they hadnt completed it all. So it was necessary for Phoenix to ask 
for this again.
In summary, I cant see that Phoenix has acted unreasonably so I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman