DRN-1929919
The complaint
Mrs J complains that, in 2001, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account (PBA).
What happened
Mrs J had had a fee-free current account with RBS since 1996. In 1999 her account 
changed to a fee-paying Royalties PBA (costing £4 a month at the time); and in 2001 the 
account was changed into a Royalties Gold PBA costing £10 a month. 
In 2001, the Royalties Gold account had benefits that included worldwide family travel 
insurance, car breakdown cover (if you took out motor insurance with RBSs insurer) and a 
reduction of 1.5% in the interest rate on personal loans. 
RBS has already agreed with Mrs J that it mis-sold the 1999 Royalties account. So we 
havent looked into that. 
One of our adjudicators said they thought the complaint, about the Royalties Gold sale in 
2001, shouldnt be upheld. Mrs J didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs J originally said she was told she had to upgrade to the Royalties Gold to get an 
overdraft; although she later clarified this to say it was to get access to finance, 
specifically a personal loan which she took out at the same time. 
A major problem is that this all happened a long time ago  about 20 years ago  and so I 
cant be sure how accurately Mrs J has been able to recall all the detail of what happened. It 
wouldnt be fair to rely just on what she now remembers happening. And, in a situation like 
this, it wouldnt be fair to make RBS prove that it didnt do something wrong that its been 
accused of. 
Mrs J did upgrade the PBA at the same time as she took out a personal loan. So this 
could fit in with what she is saying  that she was told she couldnt have the loan without 
the upgrade. However, it could equally be that RBS pointed out she would get a 1.5% 
discount on the loan she was taking, if she upgraded to the Royalties Gold. 
Looking back now, that might not have represented good value for Mrs J, in terms of a 
good trade-off between the costs and the benefits  especially as she says she didnt 
have much use for the other benefits. But it would have been for Mrs J to make that 
decision at the time  especially as it doesnt look as though RBS advised her that taking 
out the PBA upgrade would especially suit her individual circumstances. Instead it just 
had to set out the facts about the PBA and leave the decision up to her. 
I cant be sure how well RBS did set out those facts  though Ive seen a Welcome 
Letter from the time, and this does give the basic facts. Whether these were given at the 
actual point of sale though, I cant say.  But I cant also say that full facts would clearly 
have put Mrs J off taking the PBA, as the banking benefits and insurance were at least 
potentially useful to her. 
Overall, I cant say the PBA was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman