DRN-4443289
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard couldn't trace his 
account.
What happened
Mr C contacted Barclays in August 2022 to discuss a payment he had made as a deposit for 
a vehicle and some direct debits that were coming out of his account. Barclays asked for his 
card number which Mr C was unable to supply as he no longer had the card and he 
explained that he didn't have access to the mobile app. He raised a complaint with Barclays, 
but it said it couldn't investigate it as it didn't have the card number.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator corresponded with 
Barclays, as it appeared that it was still unable to trace any open accounts for Mr C. It was 
only when Mr C received a new card in March 2023 that he was able to provide the card 
number. It was discovered that the card was actually linked to his current address, the 
closed accounts Barclays had found were linked to an old address. As our Investigator felt 
that Barclays should have been able to trace the card account through Mr C's name and 
post code, she proposed that it pay compensation of £175.
Barclays was prepared to agree to this.
Mr C did not agree. He felt that the way that Barclays had handled the matter and the impact 
on his mental health should be considered. But he was prepared to accept a final payment of 
£250.
Barclays wouldn't agree to increase the compensation, so the matter has been passed to me 
for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise that in this decision I am only considering the issue of whether Barclays 
took adequate steps to trace Mr C's account. I am aware that Mr C originally contacted 
Barclays because he had an issue over some payments. Those issues will be dealt with in a 
separate complaint.
When Mr C contacted Barclays in August 2022, he was unable to provide the full card 
number. He also told Barclays that he didn't have access to the mobile app so couldn't go 
online and find the number. When he raised the complaint about it, the complaints handler 
again asked him for his card number or requested that he go into his banking app and find 
the number there. Unfortunately it appeared that he didn't have any recent statements 
despite the card being active. As a result Barclays said it couldn't investigate the complaints 
any further.
I do understand that Barclays went through its records and couldn't trace any active 
accounts for Mr C, and it took some correspondence between the Investigator, Mr C and 
Barclays to try and find Mr C's account. But it does appear that at the outset Barclays did not 
go through the simple expedient of asking Mr C for his current address and post code. 
I understand that the card should have been able to be traced in that way.
As a result, Mr C was not able to have his original complaints about the payments dealt with 
at the time and this has caused considerable mental stress for him. I note that he feels that 
being without the card until March 2023 meant that he was unable to pay some expenses 
and had to borrow from friends and family. However I do note that that he still had access to 
his regular salary, and this was not a current account. So I wont make an award for any 
financial losses.
Taking all of that into account, I do think that the proposed award of compensation of £175 is 
appropriate and is a fair and reasonable amount to pay in respect of this complaint. It is also 
in line with awards we've made in similar cases.
Putting things right
Barclays should play £175 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman