The complaint  
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide ) has refused to meet his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to flights he paid for on 
his credit card.  
What happened  
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Bs complaint on 23 July 2021. I asked both parties to 
let me have any further submissions they wanted to make in respect of the case by 6 August 
2021. That date has now passed and no submissions have been received, so I have 
proceeded to make my final decision. The background of the complaint was set out in my 
provisional decision, and I have reproduced this below:  
Background  
Mr B and his wife booked return flights ................. , with Thomas Cook Airlines (TCA), 
paying for the tickets on Mr Bs Nationwide credit card. The booking was made on ............  
.......... . 
The flights cost £231.98 outbound, and the same inbound, for .......................  seats flying 
out on ...............................  and returning on .................................. . 
TCA became insolvent on 23 September 2019. As a result, the return flight did not take 
place. Mr and Mrs B were repatriated for no extra charge under arrangements made by the 
UK Government. The flight on which they were repatriated departed the same day as  the 
original return flight and landed at its intended destination in the UK with a delay of 1 hour 
and eight minutes, according to data from the Civil Aviation Authority.  
Mr B wrote to Nationwide a couple of weeks later, setting out a claim under section  75 of the 
CCA. He claimed the cost of the return flights for himself and Mrs B, and compensation of  
€400 per passenger as per EC Regulation 261/2004 (the EC Regs). Nationwide accepted 
Mr Bs claim for a refund of the price of the return flights but refu sed to meet his claim for 
compensation under the EC Regs.  
Disappointed with Nationwides response, Mr B brought the matter to this service. He did not 
think Nationwide had handled his claim fairly. One of our investigators looked into the case. 
In her mos t recent assessment of the complaint, she explained that she didnt think 
Nationwide needed to go any further to put things right and had fulfilled its responsibilities to 
Mr B under section 75 of the CCA. I could summarise her findings as follows:  
It wasnt clear if Mr B had a right to compensation under the EC Regs, because he
had been repatriated to the UK on a flight which departed and arrived with only a
minimal difference to the original flight booked with  TCA.
DRN-1931944  The right to claim compensation from TCA under the EC Regs was a statutory right, 
not a contractual one. So the failure by TCA to pay compensation for the cancelled 
flight was not a breach of contract (and therefore not something Nationwide could be 
liable fo r under section 75 of the  CCA).  
 
Mr B disagreed. He didnt think our investigators interpretation of the EC Regs was correct. I 
could summarise what he said as follows:  
 
 The fact that the UK Government had stepped in and repatriated him and his wife 
was irrelevant to a claim for compensation under the EC Regs. Under the EC Regs it 
had to be TCA which stepped in and offered an alternative, in order for it to avoid 
having to  pay compensation. It didnt step in and thus was liable to pay 
compensation.  
 
In my provisional findings, I agreed broadly with the outcome which had been reached by 
our investigator, however wanted to explain in more detail the reasons for my findings. I 
have reproduced my provisional findings below:  
 
Provisional Findings on Mr Bs complaint  
 
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers a degree of protection when they use a credit card 
to pay for goods or services, so long as certain technical criteria are m et. If those conditions 
are met then the consumer can claim against their credit card provider in respect of any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services.  
 
The EC Regs, which are also relevant in this case, are a set  of consumer protection 
regulations which give consumers certain rights when specified things go wrong with flights 
they have booked with an airline. These include rights when a flight is cancelled, in which 
case the EC Regs say a consumer would have the right to compensation so long as certain 
conditions were met. Compensation is calculated according to further provisions within the 
regulations.  
 
It hasnt been argued by either party that the technical criteria have not been met for a 
section 75 claim to  be made, so I will make no comment on this point other than to say that 
on the face of it the criteria appear to have been met.  
 
There is also no dispute that TCA was in breach of its contract with Mr B. Mr B paid for 
tickets for himself and his wife to b e flown by TCA from the UK to Bulgaria and back. TCA 
failed to fly him and his wife back to the UK. That is a breach of contract. Nationwide say 
they have remedied this breach of contract by refunding Mr B the price of the flights he did 
not receive.  
 
The crux of Mr Bs dispute with Nationwide is whether the building society should have also 
paid a further amount for what he says is TCAs failure to pay compensation it owes under 
the EC Regs in respect of the flight being cancelled.  
 
Our investigator sa ys it was unclear if TCA owed compensation under the EC Regs, but that 
he probably wasnt. Personally, I do not think that question needs to be answered because, 
whether TCA did or did not owe Mr B compensation under the EC Regs, I share the view of 
our in vestigator that this is a type of claim he cannot make against Nationwide under section  
75. I will explain further.  
 
As stated above, section 75 of the CCA covers claims for breach of contract (and 
misrepresentation, but it hasnt been suggested that any m isrepresentation took place). For 
me to be able to say that Nationwide should have paid Mr B compensation he may have   been owed by TCA under the EC Regs, I would therefore need to be able to conclude that 
TCAs failure to pay compe nsation was a breach of contract.  
 
A breach of contract can be a breach of an express term of a contract  meaning something 
which is written into it. Or it can be a breach of what is usually referred to as an implied 
term, which is a term treated as bei ng included in the contract due to, for example, 
legislation which says that it must be. I have gone on to consider whether there were any 
express or implied terms in Mr Bs contract with TCA, and which meant it was in breach of 
contract by not paying him compensation for the cancellation of his flight.  
 
Did Mr Bs contract with TCA contain any express terms relating to compensation under the  
EC Regs?  
 
I have obtained a copy of the conditions which it seems most likely to me applied to Mr Bs 
contract with TCA, from an archived copy of TCAs website before it became insolvent. From 
this, it appears Mr Bs contract was made up of two parts: Booking Conditions and 
Conditions of Carriage. References to the EC Regs in respect of cancelled flights appeared 
in both parts.  
 
Section 27 of the Booking Conditions was titled EC Regulation 261/2004, and said the 
following:  
 
If your Flight ticket is downgraded, your Fligh t is cancelled or delayed or you are denied 
boarding by us or any Airline operating your Flight(s), you may be entitled to compensation 
under EC Regulation 261/2004. If you are entitled to such compensation, you are entitled to 
claim that compensation (and  any applicable recoverable expenses) from the applicable 
Airline. Any sums received by you in this context will constitute your full entitlement to 
compensation under EC Regulation 261/2004. If, for any reason, you do not claim against 
the Airline and mak e a claim for compensation against us, you agree to assign the rights you 
have against the actual Airline operating your Flight to us. Please refer to our policy 
Customer Rights: EC Regulation 261/2004  at 
https://www.thomascookAirlines.com/en/help -contact/ec -regulation -2612004.jsp  for more 
information.  
 
Any action in court to claim compensation must be brought within 6 years of the delay, 
cancellation or denied boarding.  
 
Section 59.2 of the Conditions of Carriage stated the following:  
 
Our policy on compensation and  assistance for delays and cancellations is in accordance 
with EC Regulation 261/2004. If a delay or cancellation occurs we will provide customers 
with a notice setting out their rights pursuant to the EU Regulation 261/2004. You can find 
full details of y our [rights] under the European legislation on our page titled EU Regulation 
261/2004 https://www.thomascookAirlines.com/en/help -contact/ec -regulation -2612004.jsp . 
Except as required by EC Regulation 261/2004, and subject to other applicable laws, where 
you have purchase d your ticket from a Ticket Issuer, our contract is with the Ticket Issuer 
and we will not be liable to you in respect of any delayed or cancelled Flights, and any such 
claims should be addressed to the Ticket Issuer.  
 
The link referred to in both section s led to a webpage1 titled Customer Rights: EC 
Regulation 261/2004. In larger text under the title, the webpage said the following:  
 
 
1 A copy archived by the Internet Archive and appears to have been current at the time Mr B had a 
contract with TCA can be found here:   In case your flight has been heavily delayed, or cancelled, or you have been denied 
boarding on a  flight due to overbooking you may be entitled [to] compensation according to 
EC-Regulation 261/2004, which came into force on 17 February 2005. The operating carrier 
is responsible for granting these rights.  
 
The webpage went on to outline the rights available, how a consumer could make a claim 
under the EC Regs, and the details of the various national bodies responsible for enforcing 
passenger rights.  
 
My analysis of the above is that although TCA did refer to  the EC Regs in its contract with 
Mr B, this served an advisory or informational purpose. In other words, the references to the 
EC Regs simply let him know what his rights were under those regulations, and what TCAs 
obligations were. They did not make a c ontractual promise to him to pay compensation in 
the event of (for example) the cancellation of his flights. I say this because of the way in 
which the contract is worded. It refers to a consumer having rights under or according to 
the EC Regs  in oth er words these rights were something Mr B was entitled to as a result of 
the EC Regs, not as a result of the terms of his contract with  TCA.  
 
I am therefore led to the conclusion that TCA had no express contractual obligation to pay 
compensation to Mr B of  €400 per passenger for the cancellation of the return flight.  
 
I should say here that Mr Bs contract with TCA did give him a contractual right to a refund of 
the price of his tickets for the cancelled return leg of his booking, under section 28.5 of the 
Conditions of Carriage. Nationwide has already refunded this amount.  
 
Were any of Mr Bs rights under the EC Regs treated as included in his contract with TCA as  
implied terms?  
 
I mentioned earlier in this decision that a route by which terms can become im plied in a 
contract is via legislation. For example, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that specific 
terms relating to the quality of goods and services are to be treated as being included in 
consumer contracts.  
 
I have examined the EC Regs, and can find n o wording within them which indicates the 
rights they confer upon consumers are to be treated as included or implied in contracts. In 
fact the wording of Article 12 of the EC Regs in particular is important here as I think it 
suggests the opposite:  
 
Artic le 12 (Further Compensation)  
 
1. This Regulation shall apply without prejudice to a pas senger's rights to further 
compensation. The compensation granted under this Regulation may be deducted from such 
compensation.  
 
 
 
In my view this indicates that the rights to compensation under the EC Regs are intended to 
be separate from any rights to compensation a consumer might have for a different reason, 
for example a claim for damages caused by a breach of contract. I have found support for 
this interpretation in the case of Graham & Anor v. Thomas Cook Group [2012] EWCA Civ  
 
 
https://web.archive .org/web/20190830040430/https: /www.t homascookairlines.com/en/help - 
contact/ec -regulation -2612004.jsp   1355, in which the court clearly drew a distinction between a claim made under the EC 
Regs, and a claim for damages. The court said that Article 12:  
 
confirms that the compensation provided for under the [EC Regs], which is intended to be 
of a general nature applicable to all passengers, does not exclude any other rights of 
compensation which an individual passenger may have from a source other than the 
regulation.  
 
The court went on to quote the view of the European Court of Justice, and summarised:  
 
In other words, where there has been a br each of a contract of carriage, the national court 
is not prevented from awarding damages under  domestic law as the case may be, for 
breach of the contract.  
 
I think this makes it relatively clear that the right to claim compensation under the EC Regs i s 
different to a right to claim compensation (e.g. damages) for a breach of contract. It would 
therefore not be logical for the EC Regs to be implied into contracts, and my conclusion is 
that they are not.  
 
It is mor e accurate to say that, if TCA had owed Mr B compensation as a result of the 
cancellation of his return flight, and had failed to pay him this compensation, then this would 
be a breach of its obligations under the EC Regs, not a breach of contract. For tha t reason, 
the failure to pay compensation is not something Mr B can hold Nationwide liable for under 
section 75 of the CCA.  
 
This means that I think, by refunding the price of his return flights (as it appears he was 
entitled to under section 28.5 of the C onditions of Carriage), Nationwide dealt with Mr Bs 
section 75 claim in a fair way. I therefore wont be asking it to do anything further.  
 
My final observation is that Mr B has not actually suffered a financial loss as a result of what 
has happened (or a t least, no evidence of a loss has been provided). It appears he received 
both a refund of the price of the return flights and a repatriation flight which he did not have 
to pay for and which resulted in only minimal delays to his journey. In light of this , I may not 
have thought it fair and reasonable for Nationwide to have to pay anything further in any 
event, if my interpretation of the EC Regs had been different.  
 
In closing, I noted that I was not minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
As neither party to the complaint has put forward any new evidence or arguments, and 
having reviewed the case again, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I adopt those same findings (as reproduced above) as my 
final decision.  
 
My final decision  
 
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.  
Will Culley  
Ombudsman  