DRN-1704902
 
Complaint
Mr T and Miss H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr T and Miss H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Mr T and Miss H paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case 
one or both of them were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T and Miss H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr T and Miss Hs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So understandably, neither side still have the original documents from the sale. Indeed, 
under data protection rules Halifax were required to dispose of Mr T and Miss Hs 
documents rather than hold onto them for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr T and Miss H into 
having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows or substantiates that thats what it did 
here. Nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this 
particular sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce 
documents from the time to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to 
conclude that Halifax misled Mr T and Miss H. I think its more likely that it followed a 
relatively normal sales process, offered them PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. 
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr T and Miss H, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr T and Miss H, 
Ive assumed it did. That means Halifax had to check the policy was right for them  and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr T and Miss H were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
While Mr T and Miss H had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those 
and offered them more comprehensive cover, especially for when their benefits reduced to just a fraction of their normal pay. I understand Mr T and Miss H may have had significant 
savings, though understandably they no longer have any record of how much they were or 
how accessible they were, so its not certain if these savings were relevant. In any case, the 
PPI meant Mr T and Miss H could effectively protect their savings and use them for other 
things, instead of having to sacrifice one asset to save another. And the mortgage was a 
significant, long-term commitment  there was no guarantee that Mr T and Miss H would still 
have access to the same savings or benefits in the many years to come. Its worth bearing in 
mind that if Mr T and Miss H had fallen behind on their repayments, they couldve lost their 
home. So overall, it seems that the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting their 
home and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr T and Miss H about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr T and Miss H werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr T and Miss H could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr T and Miss H pointed out that weve found that PPI was mis-sold in many other 
cases, and I do understand their point. But different policies worked in different ways, were 
useful in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so 
on. So though some PPI policies were mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that another 
particular one was, too. We look at each case on its own merits, and for the reasons I went 
through above, I have not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Mr T and Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman