DRN-3668362
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way Vitality Health Limited handled her claim under a company 
private medical insurance plan.
Miss C will see that my decision is about a business with a slightly different name than given 
in our investigators correspondence. Vitality Health Limited is the insurer of the plan and 
responsible for claims so its the correct business for my decision to be about. The change of 
business hasnt affected my decision. My references to Vitality Health Limited (which Ill refer 
to as Vitality) include its agents.
What happened
Miss C had private medical insurance with Vitality through a Business Healthcare plan. She 
was insured as a dependant through her parents company. The plan period was from 
1 March 2021 to 28 February 2022. Miss C said the plan had previously been renewed for 
several years.
In January 2022 Vitality pre-authorised Miss Cs claim for surgery. The surgery was 
scheduled for the 10 February 2022 but Miss C had covid-19 so the surgery had to be 
postponed to the 17 March 2022.
Miss C says on 14 February Vitality sent her a letter confirming the amount it would pay 
although at this stage it didn't know the surgery had to be postponed. On 24 February she 
called Vitality to tell it the surgery had moved to 17 March and the person she spoke to said 
that was fine and thanked her for letting it know. 
On the 16 March 2022, the day before the surgery, the hospital contacted Miss C to say 
Vitality had declined to pay because the plan had ended. The plan hadnt been renewed on 
1 March 2022 and the company had taken insurance with another provider. Miss C had the 
surgery privately.
Miss C complains that Vitality acted unfairly as it had already agreed to pay the claim. Also it 
didnt contact her to tell her the claim wouldnt be covered because the plan had ended. She 
wants Vitality to pay for the surgery. She said she used all her savings and borrowed money 
to pay for the treatment.
Vitality said:
When Miss C called it on 24 February 2022 to say the surgery had been postponed it 
told her it needed to put in a request to extend the valid authorisation period. But the 
plan wasnt renewed on 1 March 2022 and under the plan terms all cover ended on 
that date. 
Miss C had said in the call shed told Vitality the plan wasnt going to renew on 
1 March 2022 and it still authorised treatment. But Miss C hadnt told it the poilcy 
wouldnt be renewed. It only knew the plan hadnt renewed when told by the new 
broker on 3 March 2022. 
Miss C also told it that her parent, the group secretary of the plan, had been told by 
Vitality that any procedures already authorised would be covered after the end of the 
plan. Vitality had no evidence to support that and the plan cancellation letter it sent to 
her parent on 11 March 2022 was clear that all cover ended on 1 March 2022. 
Our investigator said Vitality had acted fairly.
Miss C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She explained why it was important 
to her to have the surgery so she couldnt cancel the surgery when she found out Vitality 
wasnt going to pay. She added that:
The cover with Vitality lapsed it wasnt cancelled. 
Vitality reneged on its agreement to pay the claim.
As well as owing a lot of money for the surgery which she couldnt pay back Vitalitys 
action caused her a lot of anxiety.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C. I understand why she didnt want to cancel her surgery and 
that shes worried about how she will repay the money she borrowed. But I have to decide 
whether Vitality treated Miss C fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The plan says under the heading Your health cover explained:
What happens if your cover ends
This plan covers you for eligible treatment that takes place while the plan is still in 
force in other words, whilst the plan is still active, premiums have been paid to date 
and it has not been cancelled or lapsed for any reason and you are still an insured 
member or insured dependant of this scheme.
We do not pay for treatment that takes place after your cover has ended, even if this 
is a continuation of treatment that started while you were still covered by this plan, or 
even if we've authorised it in advance but the treatment is now going to take place 
after your cover has ended.
The plan also says:
If your company plan is cancelled or you leave the company
If your company plan is cancelled for any reason, or if you leave the company, then 
cover for you and your insured dependants will end on the cancellation date, or on 
your leaving date, whichever is the earlier.
Once your cover under this plan ends, no further benefit will be payable for treatment 
received after that date.
This will be the case even if:
the claim originally started before the cover ended, or
you and/or your insured dependants are in the middle of treatment, or
you and/or your insured dependants have pre-notified us of further treatment 
required.
Im satisfied the plan terms are clear that theres no cover for treatment which takes place 
after the date the plan ends. The plan is also clear that includes no cover for treatment which 
Vitality had pre-authorised before the end of the plan if the treatment took place after the 
plan ended, which was Miss Cs situation. The terms Vitality relied on arent unusual in these 
types of plans/policies.Miss C says the plan wasnt cancelled, it lapsed. What happened was the plan wasnt 
renewed after it ended on 28 February 2022. But whether the plan was cancelled or not 
renewed doesnt make any difference, the above plan terms still apply as the plan cover 
ended before the treatment occurred on 17 March 2022. 
Im satisfied that Vitality acted in line with the plan terms in saying it wouldnt pay for 
Miss Cs surgery which took place after the plan ended.
Ive also considered whether Vitality acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances and 
I think it did because:
Although Miss Cs surgery was postponed due to reasons outside her control Vitality 
wasnt responsible for the postponement. 
Ive listened to the recording of Miss Cs 24 February call with Vitality. She told it 
about the postponement of the surgery and new date. She didnt tell Vitality that the 
plan wasnt going to be renewed. I think that in the call Vitality gave Miss C a 
reasonable response to the information she gave it. 
Vitality says the first time it knew the plan hadnt renewed was on 3 March 2022. 
I dont think it then needed to contact Miss C to tell her it was no longer paying the 
claim as the plan is clear it wont pay for treatment after the plan ended even if the  
treatment had been pre-authorised when there was cover. 
Ive seen no evidence to support Miss Cs suggestion to Vitality that it had told her 
parent, the group secretary of the plan, that any procedures already authorised would 
be covered after the cancellation of the plan. Vitality had sent a cancellation letter to 
Miss Cs parent on 11 March 2022 saying all cover ended on 1 March 2022. I dont 
think Vitality needed to reasonably do anything more.
Under the plan terms Vitality didnt need to pay for Miss Cs surgery in these circumstances 
and theres no basis for me to say Vitality should pay the claim on a fair and reasonable 
basis.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman