DRN-2113629
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a storm damage claim he 
made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr B noticed damage to his home following storm conditions. So he got in 
touch with Aviva to make a claim.
Aviva appointed a contractor to inspect Mr Bs roof and the internal damage. The contractor 
(S) didnt think the damage was consistent with storm. S considered the damage was down 
to wear and tear and lack of roof maintenance. Based on S findings, Aviva turned down Mr 
Bs claim. It also said Mr B hadnt complied with a duty to maintain his property in a 
reasonable condition. It did acknowledge thered been delays in its handling of Mr Bs claim 
though, so it paid Mr B £300 compensation.
Mr B wasnt happy with Avivas decision. He obtained reports from two independent experts 
which disputed S findings. Both reports concluded that the storm conditions were the main 
cause of the damage. Mr B asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He noted there were prevailing 
storm conditions at the time the damage occurred. And he was persuaded by the 
conclusions of Mr Bs chartered surveyor and architect  who had both reached broadly the 
same conclusions about the cause of damage. So he felt the storm had been the main 
cause of the damage. He recommended that Aviva should reassess Mr Bs claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Aviva disagreed. It acknowledged the ceiling damage looked sudden and recent. But it felt 
staining to the roof boarding didnt look recent. It maintained there wasnt any evidence of 
storm damage and that the damage was down to wear and tear over time. It acknowledged 
thered been poor weather conditions, but it felt these had simply highlighted existing issues 
with the roof. It also didnt agree with the conclusions of Mr Bs experts. It said theyd only 
given opinions based on photos of the roof. And it felt one of the reports explicitly stated that 
there was some degree of wear and tear and moss growth.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Bs claim. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. So Ill consider 
each question in turn.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Aviva doesnt dispute that there were storm conditions on or around the date of the claim. 
Ive checked the local weather records for the time and wind speeds of up to 59 mph were 
recorded on 10 February 2020, with further storm wind speeds of 50mph recorded around a 
week later. While these winds werent accompanied by storm force rains, it seems rain was 
falling locally during these periods.
So Im satisfied the answer to the first question is yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm?
Damage to the roof structure and resultant internal water damage can often be consistent 
with storm force winds and accompanying rain. The highest wind speed recorded does 
appear to be capable of causing considerable structural damage. So I think the answer to 
the second question is also yes.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
In this case, both parties have provided expert evidence to show the main cause of the 
damage. On the one hand, Aviva has provided S report and photos, together with the 
opinion of one of its senior contracts managers (SCM). This evidence states that the main 
cause of the damage was down to wear and tear and lack of maintenance. On the other 
hand, Mr B has provided two reports from an architect and a chartered surveyor, which state 
that the damage was down to the storm conditions.
In making my decision, Ive considered all of the available evidence to decide which I find the 
most persuasive. In doing so, Ive thought carefully about what the experts have said about 
how they felt the damage was most likely to have happened.
S provided a report following its visit to Mr Bs property, together with photos. The photos 
include narratives explaining what S contractor saw. These include: rear dormer  moss 
growth may be preventing run off, tide mark visible on tile, one damaged tile, rear dormer  
flashing raised at top, insufficient cover, front dormer  insufficient run off leading to 
ponding of water.
Avivas SCM reviewed the photos S had taken. They didnt feel there was any evidence of 
rip damage to the roof, in line with Mr Bs recollections that hed heard a ripping sound. 
They noted staining to the boarding in the loft which they didnt feel was recent. Aviva said:
I do not identify any evidence of storm damage (Certainly that could reasonably be 
attributed to a single event). Poor design/installation is not contestable - the Front dormer is 
clearly ponding water with no appropriate run-off - this would lead to premature failure of 
bitumen felt covering anyway - rear dormer may have same with reference to marks on tiles. 
Poor abutment flashing detail of rear dormer. Single lifted/torn part of flashing on side 
abutment of front dormer. These flashings appear original to the dormer installation not roof re-covering works. Not consistent with storm but rather wear and tear / gradual 
deterioration.
The SCM accepted thered been poor weather conditions at the time but felt these had 
allowed enough water to get into Mr Bs home to highlight the existing wear and tear issues. 
They didnt feel it was exclusive to storm.
On the other hand, Mr Bs experts have provided findings which counter S and the SCMs. 
The first expert acknowledged there was some degree of wear and tear and moss growth. 
But he didnt think that either could be given as a reason for water getting into Mr Bs home. 
He queried why there wasnt continued penetration of water through the felt roof if that was 
the cause of the damage. He also stated:
A more likely reason is, due to the exposed condition of this property and the substantial 
driving rain, that the tiles may have been lifted and/or water has been driving through the 
ridge tiles. Neither of these I can confirm without an inspection, but it is far more likely than 
the current condition of the felt. lf the felt had been the issue, then there would be a continual 
penetration of moisture in all heavy rain conditions. I can see no cracks or splits to the felt 
roof which would indicate that the felt is the issue. 
Mr Bs second expert reached broadly similar conclusions. He found the roof to be in a 
reasonable state of repair. He also noted the ponding of water but didnt think the 
construction of the roof or maintenance of it were abnormal or deficient. He included likely 
causes of the water ingress into Mr Bs home. He said:
As the winds were from the South West to West the front dormer would have received both 
wind and rain directly. It is very likely that with the strength of wind rain would be driven up 
and under the skirt flashing into the small inaccessible roof void above the living room along 
the line of the dormer window. The wind may well have damaged the integrity of the lead 
flashing and the bitumen flat roof exacerbating the water ingress. The above is born (sic) out 
by the areas of the first floor living room suffering from water ingress. There appears to be 
no evidence of the flat roof of the dormer having failed in any way or the above referred to 
ponding contributing.
He also added: It is my opinion that the likely cause of the water ingress to the inner portion 
of the roof void at second floor level would be from driven wind driven rain forced under the 
ridge construction and thence into the roof space. Where the water staining occurred 
supports this location as being the path of ingress.
The expert concluded: From this evidence it is difficult to conclude that lack of appropriate 
maintenance was the cause or even contributed to the water ingress which occurred in 
February. My conclusion is that very few houses of this construction, typical of the period, in 
the same orientation, location and elevation would resist such wind/rain adequately. Wind 
and rain of such exceptional severity is almost certain to have been the direct cause (my 
emphasis) of the water ingress and maintenance standards do not appear to have 
contributed.
This is a finely balanced case. Most of the experts do accept there was some degree of wear 
and tear and moss growth to the roof. The SCM also noted staining to the loft boards, which 
they considered couldve been evidence of water ingress over time. And I do accept this is 
possible. Ive noted though that Mr Bs expert didnt think the wear and tear over time had 
been the cause of the damage, or even a contributory factor.
Its unfortunate that the reviews of the roof had to be largely through photos. It isnt clear 
whether S itself was able to access the roof, as Mr B said it used a telescopic camera on a pole to take the photos. But I think the photos are sufficiently clear to show the roof in detail. 
And Avivas SCM was able to complete their assessment of the claim based on the photos. 
So I dont think the fact Mr Bs experts had to assess the photos in the same way as the 
SCM means their evidence is less valid.
The findings of Mr Bs experts are broadly similar. Neither considers the most likely cause of 
the damage to be the fact that water doesnt run-off properly or that the felt had been 
penetrated. Both thought one likely cause of the damage was rain being driven up under the 
ridge section of the roof. And Mr Bs architect also felt the rain may have been driven up 
under the flashing by the wind speeds, which damaged the felt covering of the roof too.
Overall, I have to decide which evidence I find the most persuasive. Given the detail of Mr 
Bs experts findings and the plausible and compelling evidence theyve given for the storm 
conditions being the main cause of the damage, Im more persuaded by their evidence. So it 
follows that I think its most likely that the storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. This means I dont think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to reassess Mr Bs claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and without reference to the policy term excluding claims due to wear, tear, lack 
of maintenance and gradual deterioration.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman