DRN-3237330
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that a car Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) supplied him 
through a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr C has largely been represented by his wife in this complaint. But for ease of reference I 
shall refer to any statements she made as being made by Mr C.  
What happened
In May 2019 Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle to acquire a car. The 
car was around nine years old and had travelled around 79,000 miles when he acquired it. It 
had a cash price of £3,750. Around a month after he acquired it a warning light appeared on 
the cars dashboard. Mr C says he took the car back to the supplying dealership who told 
him theyd replaced the rear callipers. But he says this didnt fix the issue. Mr C says he 
contacted the dealership again who said this was common with the type of vehicle Mr C had 
acquired  that the warning light doesnt go out.
Mr C says that he noticed further issues with the car over the next few months and in 
October 2019 he took the car to the dealership and reported the following issues: 
Clutch was wearing out;
Window wasnt working properly;
Engine management light was on; and
Brakes were getting hot.
Mr C says the dealership advised him to get an independent report, which he did. However 
he said this report revealed 53 faults with the car. He referred this to the dealership, but the 
dealership said the majority of the faults werent covered by the warranty policy hed taken 
out. But Mr C says it agreed to repair the diesel particulate filter (DPF) as a goodwill gesture. 
It also agreed to give Mr C a courtesy car while it was repairing the car. At the same time, he 
spoke with Oodle who said he should give the dealership one chance to repair the car. 
Mr C later received a message to say the car was repaired, but when he arrived at the 
dealership he found it had ceased trading. He contacted Oodle who said it would try and 
locate where the car was. Mr C said he wasnt willing to accept the car back unless it was 
repaired.
In the meantime, Mr C was involved in an accident in the courtesy car. He notified the cars 
insurer, but he found out the car wasnt insured or had a valid road tax.
A couple of weeks later, Mr C says someone knocked on his door and said they wanted to 
swap the cars over. But Mr C wasnt willing to do so unless he was given assurances his car 
had been repaired. He said the individual threatened him if he didnt hand the courtesy car 
over, but Mr C wasnt willing to do so.
Mr C then contacted Oodle who said he should agree to the swap and it would arrange an 
inspection of Mr Cs car. Mr C says Oodle later said it would repair the car and it agreed to 
pay for the cost of a hire car while it did so. But he said the issues were still there when 
Oodle returned the car.
In January 2020 Oodle agreed again to pay for an independent inspection. In March 2020 
Mr C complained to Oodle that it hadnt done the inspection. Oodle explained it had tried to 
speak to Mr C in February 2020 but it said it wasnt able to reach him. So it said it had closed 
his complaint. It then agreed to allow Mr C to reject the car and it would arrange to collect it. 
In April 2020 Mr C said that hed been furloughed from work due to Covid-19. He complained 
that he could have stayed at work if he had a car but couldnt work because of the issues 
with his car. He said this meant he couldnt keep up with his monthly payments. Oodle said it 
wasnt able to collect the car due to the national lockdown. Once Oodle collected the car it 
wrote to him to say he owed £3,155.25 for the cars depreciation  given Mr C had travelled 
around 12,000 miles in the car since he first acquired it. It also charged a further £1,229 for 
damage to the car. However, it reduced this amount by the amount hed already paid 
towards the finance - £949.44.
Mr C didnt agree these charges were fair. He said hed had no choice but to use the car as 
he needed to get to work and drive his pregnant wife to and from hospital. Oodle maintained 
the charges were fair so Mr C referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She said the initial work the supplying dealership 
carried out was under the warranty policy Mr C took out with the car. And she said she 
couldnt hold Oodle responsible for the actions of the dealership  including regarding the 
issues with the hire car and it ceasing to trade while still having possession of the car. 
She said Oodle was responsible for the quality of the car. But, given the cars age and 
mileage when Mr C first acquired it, she thought Mr C should have expected some wear and 
tear to it. She didnt think the faults with the car would have made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality because they were down to wear and tear. So she thought Oodle had acted more 
than fairly in allowing Mr C to reject the car.
However, having allowed him to reject the car, she didnt think the charges Oodle had 
charged were fair. She noted the hire purchase agreement didnt have an annual mileage 
limit. So she thought a fair usage charge was the monthly payments Mr C had made. And 
she didnt think the £3,155.25 was fair. She also considered the damage charges Oodle had 
charged. She highlighted that the car was nine years old at the point of supply and had 
travelled around 79,000 miles. And she thought it was fair to reflect this in the condition of 
the car. She also said there wasnt anything to show the condition of the car when it was first 
supplied to Mr C. So she didnt think the majority of the charges were fair. But she said Mr C 
had accepted hed caused some of the damage. So she thought Oodle could charge for the 
following:
Front door sill
Damage to drivers seat
Right side wheel arch panel
But she didnt think Oodle could charge for the rest of the damage. She also thought it 
should pay Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused him. 
Oodle accepted the investigators opinion, but Mr C didnt accept it. He said:The engine management light came on within weeks of acquiring the car. He maintains 
the supplying dealership told him that this was a common problem with the type of car 
hed acquired. He says he was assured there was nothing wrong with the car.
He says it was Oodle who initially brought up rejection. He said it told him the dealership 
would have one chance to repair the car but he could then reject it and he referred to call 
recordings hed provided. He says Oodle stepped in when the dealership stopped trading 
to look to put things right.
He maintains Oodle promised it would repair the car before it was returned to him. But it 
didnt do so. He said, after months of going back and forth with Oodle, it finally said he 
had the right to reject the car. But hes unhappy it didnt explain there would be any 
repercussions for handing the car back.
He said he didnt want to reject the car. But he said he was left with no choice after the 
dealership and Oodle failed in their responsibilities to repair it. He said there were no 
new faults with the car, just the existing ones which were on the original diagnostic test 
they had done.
He maintains Oodle told him he could hand his car back and have his money back 
because it explained it wasnt cost effective to repair it.
He thinks its unfair Oodle has cited Covid-19 as a reason for the delays. He said he sent 
Oodle numerous emails and had a number of telephone calls during January and 
February 2020, but he says Oodle ignored his emails throughout. He also thinks this 
should and could have been resolved in December 2019 had Oodle arranged an 
independent report as it said it would. Hes unhappy because he says, had it repaired the 
car then, he could have kept it and continued to make his monthly payments.
He says Oodle didnt pay all the costs he incurred for the hire car. He said it only paid 
£20 per day, but he had to pay the balance so paid out hundreds of pounds for the hire 
cars, which he says he had to borrow from family members.
Mr C says he was furloughed because he didnt have a reliable car. So he says he lost 
thousands of pounds in income because of Oodles delays.
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Mr C has raised a large number of reasons why hes unhappy with how Oodle has handled 
this matter. And Im aware Ive summarised this matter in far less detail than hes provided. I 
dont mean any discourtesy by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. I 
assure Mr C I have considered everything hes provided. But in this decision Ive focussed 
on what I consider to be the key points hes raised.
I think there are two key issues for me to decide:
1. Is Oodle liable for the losses Mr C says he incurred due to the faults with his car; and
2. Are the charges Oodle have charged after allowing Mr C to reject the car fair?
I shall consider each point separately.
Losses incurred before rejection
Mr C acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Oodle is responsible for 
the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute that there were 
faults with the car, but the issue is whether they were present at the time of supply, and 
whether they made the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.Its important to highlight that, just because a car had a fault or a developing fault when it 
was supplied, it doesnt automatically follow that it was of unsatisfactory quality. In deciding 
whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I need take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cars cash price, mileage and age. And, in doing so, I need to 
think whether it was reasonable or not to see faults such as the ones Mr C has experienced 
for a car of its age, price and mileage. In this case, Mr C paid around £3,750 for the car. The 
car was around ten years old and had travelled 79,000 miles at the point of supply. So the 
car was not new and had had a lot of usage before Mr C acquired it. So he needed to 
reasonably expect the car to have suffered some wear and tear and for it not to be fault free. 
In thinking about this, Ive thought about whether the faults on the car have arisen due to 
wear and tear or for some other reason. Ive particularly considered the report Mr C has 
provided from October 2019 which highlighted a large number of fault codes with the car. 
However, its not clear from this whether these are actual faults or historic fault codes. It is 
accepted, however, that the car did have the following faults: 
Clutch was wearing out;
Window wasnt working properly;
Engine management light was on, which was presumed to be down to the fact the DPF 
wasnt working as well as it should do; and
Mr C says the brakes were getting hot.
However, I think these issues are down to wear and tear and it wouldnt be unusual to 
expect to see these issues with a ten year old car that had travelled 79,000 miles. Im also 
conscious Mr C had travelled around 8,000 miles in the car by this time. I dont think I can 
reasonably say these faults made the car of unsatisfactory quality. Ultimately, its the risk a 
consumer takes with acquiring an older car with high mileage that faults will arise with it 
sooner than one would expect with a newer car. 
I acknowledge Mr C says Oodle told him it would repair the car and I accept this whole 
matter has caused him a significant amount of distress and inconvenience as well as a 
financial loss. However, as I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory quality, I dont think 
Oodle had any responsibility in this matter to put the faults right. I appreciate Mr C says 
everything could have been avoided had Oodle repaired the car at the start. But it didnt 
have to do so.
I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr C found himself in. I can see he had a number of 
issues with the supplying dealership. But the dealership was looking at the issues in line with 
the warranty that was provided with the car  not due to any liability Oodle may have had. So 
Oodle isnt liable for anything the dealership did or didnt do in this case.
I agree with Mr C that I think Oodle could have been more pro-active in this matter. Amongst 
other things it seems it promised to arrange an independent inspection, but it closed the 
complaint after one attempt to contact him. This doesnt seem fair to me. There was a further 
delay in collecting the car once Oodle agreed to the rejection due to the national lockdown 
as a result of Covid-19. But this was an unprecedented situation and was Government 
imposed. So it out of Oodles control and I dont think I can reasonably hold Oodle 
responsible for this.
However, Oodle has allowed Mr C to reject the car and it didnt have to do it. Had it said it 
wasnt required to repair the car or allow Mr C to reject it, I would have said that was fair. 
And, had it done so, Mr C would have had to arrange to repair the car himself. So, taking 
everything into consideration and given what I've said above, I dont think I can ask Oodle to 
do more.Mr C has said that he lost out financially because he was furloughed as a result of the 
unreliability of the car. But, as I said, I dont think Oodle is liable for the issues he has had 
with the car. So I dont think it needs to compensate him for this.
Charges Oodle have charged following the rejection of the car
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 entitles Oodle to reduce any refund payable where it allows 
rejection of goods to take into account the usage of the goods. Oodle thinks it should be 
allowed to charge 25p for every mile Mr C has travelled  totalling £3,155.25. Even if I 
accepted Oodle could use this principle, which I dont, I think charging £3,155.25 for usage 
and an additional £1,229 for damage to a car that only cost £3,750 when first acquired is 
generally unfair. Essentially Oodle is charging more for the usage and damage than Mr C 
actually paid for the car.
When considering these charges, I think its useful to be mindful of what the CRA actually 
says regarding this. This sets out that, where a consumer is given their final right to reject, 
the supplier  in this case Oodle  is required to reduce the amount the consumer has to pay 
for the goods but it can take into account the usage of the goods the consumer has had of 
them.
Given Oodle has allowed Mr C to reject the car, it needs to reduce the amount Mr C owed 
under the hire purchase agreement  taking into account the usage Mr C has had for the 
car. Mr C travelled around 12,000 miles in the car by the time he handed it back, so Oodle is 
entitled to take this into account. In essence, in entering into a hire purchase agreement as 
Mr C did, he was making monthly payments to hire the car and at the end of the finance 
agreement once all the payments are made he has the option to take ownership of the car. 
Im also conscious that the terms of the contract didnt put any limit on the number of miles 
Mr C could drive the car. So I think in this case the fairest way to reflect the usage of the car 
is that Mr C should pay the monthly payments he was contractually required to pay up to the 
time he handed the car back. I dont think he should have to pay anything further towards the 
finance agreement.
Ive also thought about whether it was fair for Oodle to charge £1,229 for damage to the car. 
The terms of the finance agreement set out that Mr C was required to keep the car in good 
working order and in good condition. And it sets out that Mr C is liable for any loss or 
damage that would be considered beyond fair wear and tear. However, it also needs to be 
remembered that this car was around 10 years old and had travelled over 91,000 miles 
when he handed the car back. So its reasonable to expect a high level of wear and tear to it.  
Mr C has also set out that the car was in average condition when he first acquired it and said 
some of the things Oodle has charged for was pre-existing. We dont have a copy of the 
original sales advert, so we dont have anything to corroborate Mr Cs comment, but, as I 
said, its likely there would have been evidence of some wear and tear to the car when he 
acquired it. Ive reviewed the photographs of the damage Oodle has charged for, but I think 
the majority of the damage would be considered commensurate with the age and mileage of 
the vehicle  e.g. I think its reasonable to expect to see some scratches and chips to the 
cars bodywork, bumpers and alloy wheels. Im also satisfied Mr C wasnt given a copy of the 
V5C form, so I dont think its fair for Oodle to charge for this.
I also note the investigator was of the opinion it was fair for Oodle to charge for the damage 
to the right-side wheel arch and seat. The damage to the wheel arch was a scratch to the 
panel. But I dont think its unreasonable to expect to see such a scratch on a 10 year old car 
that had travelled over 91,000 miles. So I dont think its fair for Oodle to charge for this damage. I also dont think the charge for the seat is fair either. I accept the seat is dirty, but 
Oodle has charged for a burn mark. I dont think the picture shows it particularly clearly, but 
from what I can see its minimal. I dont think its unreasonable to see such damage on a car 
of this age and mileage either.
However, Mr C has accepted he damaged the right door sill. And I think the damage to this 
is quite significant, so I think it would be considered beyond fair wear and tear. So I think 
Oodle can charge for this. Oodle has estimated the cost of repairing this damage to be £415, 
which I think is fair. Its also shown that the amount it received for the car was significantly 
less than what it would have been worth in good condition. Im conscious there were other 
issues with the car as highlighted above which also would have affected the cars sale value. 
But, overall, I think £415 is a fair charge for this damage.
Also, I think Mr C has suffered some avoidable distress and inconvenience due to Oodle 
unfairly charging these additional charges and the inconsistent advice it gave him. So I think 
Oodle should compensate him for this. And I think it should pay him £200 in compensation.
Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision and raised the following points:
Oodle made a verbal contract saying that, because the dealership had ceased trading, it 
would act as his garage as well as lender, meaning it would be responsible for fixing the 
car. 
Oodle said it would fix the car or Mr C would have the right to reject it.
Oodle asked him to get another diagnostic report done on the car to calculate the cost of 
repair. He says Oodle could have taken the car at this point and worked out the cost of 
repair as he says it has its own independent garages and fixed it.
He maintains Oodle told him he could reject the car and he could start to look for 
replacement cars which it would finance.
He thinks Oodle entered into a verbal contract to repair and fix the car.
Oodle didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional points Mr C has raised, but I dont think hes raised anything 
materially new that he hasnt raised before, so I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision.
I note Mr C thinks Oodle entered into a verbal contract in saying it would repair the car. But I 
dont agree. Oodle made a suggestion about how to resolve Mr Cs complaint and I dont 
agree it entered into a separate contract with Mr C. Mr C was claiming Oodle had breached 
the terms of the hire purchase contract and Oodles comments were an offer to remedy that 
alleged breach. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think there was a 
breach of contract.
Ultimately, as I said in my provisional decision, it was ultimately Mr Cs responsibility to 
repair the faults with the car. Oodle did not have to allow Mr C to reject the car  or incur the 
costs in repairing the car. Had it not allowed Mr C to reject the car, he would have been left 
with the car and been liable for the cost of repair. So I think Oodle has treated him more than 
fairly in this case. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont dispute Oodle caused Mr C some avoidable distress and inconvenience due to unfairly charging the additional charges and the 
inconsistent advice it gave him, which is why I awarded an additional £200 in compensation. 
I remain of the opinion that this is a fair way to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that uphold this complaint and I 
require Oodle Financial Services Limited do the following:
1. Waive the amount its looked to charge for the usage of the car;
2. Reduce the amount Mr C its looked to charge Mr C for the damage to the car to £415; 
and
3. Pay Mr C £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman