DRN-1944447
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about a delay in accessing his National Savings & Investments (NS&I) 
account following security reset.
What happened
Mr H says he tried to make a payment of £3,100 but wasn't sure of a security question and 
so asked NS&I to reset his security questions. He says he doesn't recall being told his 
account would be blocked and the current transaction suspended. And says NS&I used a 
third party company I will call E  as part of its authentication process but it held incorrect 
information about him that meant he could not be verified. Mr H says in summary that he had 
to wait some 15 days to access his account and spent some time on the telephone to NS&I 
and E about this. He would like compensation and for NS&I to change its process and how it 
deals with E.
NS&I says Mr H made a number of failed attempts to answer its security questions that he 
provided the answers for. It says its screens told Mr H that the account would be suspended 
if a temporary password was requested which is what took place. NS&I says it's not 
responsible for the information E holds about Mr H and says when Mr H agreed to go 
through the authentication process with E that had the effect of cancelling the sending of the 
temporary password. It says a temporary password was sent as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. In summary, she 
thought NS&I's screenshot told Mr H that his account would be suspended in these 
circumstances and had followed its process. The investigator thought NS&I wasn't 
responsible for E and that it wasn't our role to tell it to change its process.
Mr H doesn't accept that view and says there is no mention about how long NS&I will take to 
provide the password, and he would have expected a temporary password in two days. He 
says NS&I didn't send him a temporary password as it said it would and it was his action in 
speaking to E that allowed the account to be reset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that NS&I has dealt fairly with this complaint. I realise Mr H will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I make clear to Mr H that we are not NS&I's regulator. That means it's not our role to tell 
NS&I what its processes should be or how it runs its business. In this case I can't fairly order 
NS&I to provide a temporary password within a shorter period of time or order it to change 
its authentication process. I say that as I can see that Mr H would like that to take place. 
I'm satisfied that the problem here was caused by Mr H failing the security questions he set. In those circumstances I'm also satisfied that NS&I made clear on the online screen that if 
Mr H requested a temporary password that his account would be suspended. I think that is 
what took place here and whilst I understand why Mr H would think a password would be 
sent immediately, I can't for the reasons I have explained conclude NS&I made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by following its process on timescales. I also don't think it is obliged to include 
such security information on its website or make it available to view.
I'm also satisfied that the temporary password was stopped as Mr H asked NS&I to follow an 
authentication process with E. I think if Mr H had passed that process that would have 
allowed earlier account access, but he didn't pass that process due to information E held. I 
can't fairly hold NS&I responsible for that or for the time Mr H spent sorting that out.
I don't think NS&I was under any obligation to liaise with E but I think it does have an 
obligation to ensure the security of its customers accounts which is what I think took place 
here.
Overall I'm satisfied NS&I has followed its process and hasn't acted unfairly. I appreciate Mr 
H says he arranged a loan and incurred administrative expenses. But I can't fairly order 
NS&I pay those expenses or costs in these circumstances whatever those costs may be. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman