DRN-1699634
 The complaint
Mr Z complains Halifax will not refund some disputed transactions. 
What happened
On 12th November 2019, Mr Z contacted Halifax to complain about some transactions on his 
credit card which he said he had not made.  All three transactions had been made abroad 
and Mr Z says he was in the UK at the time so it couldn't possibly have been him.
Halifax considered his complaint.  It noted Mr Z had requested a new card to be issued a 
month before the disputed transactions.  He had then changed the PIN on the card manually 
and had used the new card for a withdrawal.
A week later, the disputed transactions occurred abroad  but using Mr Zs old card and his 
revised PIN.  Three payments had been successful amounting to £2136.66 and some 
subsequent payment had been blocked. Halifax said this was because its fraud detection 
system had been alerted.
It decided it wasnt going to uphold Mr Zs complaint as there was no point on compromise 
on his PIN.  As his genuine card and PIN had been used,  Halifax concluded Mr Z must have 
authorised the transactions.
Mr Z then brought his complaint to this service where our investigator looked into matters for 
him.  He (the investigator) didnt think he could ask Halifax to do anymore, so the matter was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the evidence shows its more likely than not that Mr Z made or authorised these 
transactions, Halifax is entitled to hold him liable for them.  As the investigator explained, 
authorisation is, essentially, a two stage test.  Halifax needs to show the payments were 
authenticated  in this case by showing the original chip had been read in Mr Zs cards along 
with the PIN being used  and that Mr Z consented to the payments.
Im satisfied on the evidence I have seen that the payments were authenticated.  I know Mr 
Z suggests his card had been cloned  but it wasnt.  It was his old card which was used.  
When the new card was sent out, its possible for the old card to be used for a short period 
as an overlap. And his PIN was used too.  So, Im satisfied the card was not cloned.
I then need to decide on the issue of consent by taking into account all of the circumstances 
of the case  and this is where the lack of a plausible explanation as to how Mr Zs PIN 
might have been compromised is relevant.
The last time Mr Z used his PIN was approximately a week before the disputed 
transactions.  And he had used his new card.  For me to accept that a fraudster made these payments abroad, I need to be satisfied that this person managed to see Mr Z change his 
PIN and then was able to access Mr Zs old card  all without Mr Z realising.
This person then waited for a week, travelled abroad and used his card in the hope Mr Z 
wouldnt realise his card was missing and cancel it.
Im afraid thats just not a plausible scenario.
On balance, I think Mr Z allowed a third party to use his card with this authority. Accordingly, 
I find that he authorised the transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that i do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman