DRN-2796383
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H are complaining about the administration of their motor insurance policy by 
Aviva Insurance Limited. Mrs H is the registered owner of the vehicle and principal policy 
holder, but Mr H is also a policy holder and has been the main correspondent in the 
complaint so Ill mainly refer to him.
  
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs H spoke to Aviva to add another car, a Suzuki, onto her insurance 
policy. Her intention was to add the car on and keep the existing vehicle, a Ford, on the 
policy. But Aviva didnt clarify this and instead replaced the Ford with the Suzuki. 
A few days later, Mr H was driving the Ford and was stopped by the police, for driving 
without insurance. The car was impounded.
Aviva apologised. They issued a letter of indemnity which backdated insurance cover for 
him. And they offered to pay the impound fees, the cost of a taxi home (which Mr H 
confirmed was £15), and £250 for the upset, stress and inconvenience their error had 
caused. A few weeks passed, during which Aviva told Mr H to contact the impound as soon 
as possible to get the vehicle released. And there were several other attempted calls 
between Aviva and Mr H but with no progress on the impounded car.
At the beginning of November, Mr H told Aviva that the impound had crushed the car. After 
further correspondence, Aviva valued the car at £1,170 and paid this to Mr H in mid-
November, together with a further £100 for the upset and inconvenience, making a total of 
£350 compensation.
Mr H raised several complaints with Aviva and then brought them to our service. In summary 
his complaint points are:
The valuation of the Ford should have been higher  it was imported and the specific 
model is difficult to get hold of in the UK, so the valuation should be higher. 
Hes been prosecuted by the police and has points on his driving licence as a result 
of the incident.
Being stopped by the police was very stressful, upsetting, and embarrassing. It 
exacerbated Mr Hs existing medical conditions.
Aviva didnt provide a courtesy car so he and Mrs H were without the use of a car for 
several weeks.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint. Aviva hadnt provided any documents 
supporting their valuation so she made her own assessment and arrived at a slightly higher 
figure, of £1,215. She said Aviva should pay the difference to Mr H. And she couldnt see 
any evidence that Aviva had paid the £15 taxi fare theyd offered to Mr H so she thought they 
should pay that too. But she thought Aviva had done enough to prevent Mr H being 
prosecuted. And she felt that the £350 compensation was enough to recognise the impact of 
the incident. Our investigator also said the policy terms didnt entitle Mr H and Mrs H to a 
courtesy car. In summary, she said Aviva should pay Mr H an additional £45 for the 
valuation of the Ford and £15 for the taxi fare, with simple interest at 8% on these amounts.
Mr H was unhappy with our investigators view. He didnt agree with the investigators 
timeline of events and said it had been very difficult to get hold of Aviva which caused some 
of the delays. He reiterated that the car was valuable and unique and had been undervalued. 
And he said Aviva had told him theyd sent the indemnity letter to the police and it was all 
sorted  so he doesnt understand why he was prosecuted.
Mr H said the £350 compensation wasnt enough and the situation had been very traumatic. 
He felt Aviva should have offered a medical assessment and medical aid to address the 
impact it had had on him. And he said that the lack of a car has been detrimental to his 
health and that because the whole incident was Avivas fault, they should have provided a 
courtesy car even if it wasnt in line with their policy. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans 
decision  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr H and Mrs H, I agree with our 
investigator. Im upholding the complaint in part and directing Aviva to pay £60 plus interest 
to Mr H. Ill explain why.
Valuation of the Ford and other financial loss
Aviva told us theyd used trade guides to value the car but didnt provide evidence showing 
how theyd arrived at their valuation. These guides are what we recommend for valuing cars 
so we used them and they gave two different values  of £1,175 and £1,255. The average of 
these two is £1,215  so Im satisfied this is a more appropriate value than Avivas £1,170 
valuation. 
Mr H has told us this is a rare vehicle so Ive looked at some of the large online used car 
websites. I can see that there arent very many of the specific make, model, engine size and 
number of doors, so I can understand why hes said this. But the list prices of comparable 
cars dont suggest that the market value should be any higher than £1,215.
I appreciate Mr H has questioned the use of trade guides as he is a private individual rather 
than a trader. But although the guides are referred to as trade guides, they give an indication 
of the market as a whole.
Like our investigator, I cant see any evidence that Aviva paid the £15 taxi fare. And Aviva 
told us in an email on 2 March 2021 that theyd be happy to reissue this.
Police prosecution
Aviva sent a letter of indemnity to Mrs H on 20 September 2019, the day after Mr H reported 
the incident. They resent the letter by post and email to Mr H on 26 September 2019 and 
discussed it with Mr H on the same day. Had Mr H shown this letter to the police, the police 
wouldnt have prosecuted Mr H. But Mr H didnt do this. 
I appreciate Mr H says he thought Aviva were sorting things out with the police, but I havent 
seen any evidence that Aviva told him this. Instead the call notes suggest Aviva told Mr H 
hed need to show the indemnity letter to the police (and also the impound). Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly in this respect  they issued the letter of indemnity as soon as reasonably 
possible and explained the process to Mr H.
Upset caused by the incident
I can appreciate that being stopped by the police and having your car impounded would be a 
very stressful incident. And Mr H suffers from some mental health conditions which were 
exacerbated by the incident. So I think its right that Aviva pay him some compensation.
Its always difficult to put a figure on what is fair compensation for this sort of thing. I realise 
Mr H is very upset by the matter. However, I think Mr H could have done more to help the 
situation. For example, its not clear why he didnt do more to get the car back from the 
impound after Aviva had admitted their error and issued the letter of indemnity. So Im not 
satisfied Aviva are entirely responsible for the car being crushed and the upset and 
inconvenience that caused.
In total, Aviva have paid Mr H £350 as compensation for the upset, stress and 
inconvenience. Im satisfied this is fair  although it was an upsetting incident and I 
appreciate the impact its had on Mr Hs medical conditions, I havent seen anything to 
suggest the impact was long-lasting.
Mr H has raised other complaints against Aviva and its clear the relationship between the 
two parties has completely broken down. There have been subsequent problems which have 
clearly added to Mr Hs overall upset and frustration but I cant take those into account in this 
decision  theyve been dealt with separately by our service.
Courtesy car
Mr H and Mrs Hs policy provides for a courtesy car in certain circumstances  where theres 
been a claim for a stolen car, or where a car is being repaired. Neither of these apply to the 
Ford  and Mr H has accepted this. 
Ive thought about Mr Hs comment that Aviva should have provided a courtesy car anyway 
because it was their error that caused the issue. However, as Ive said above, Im satisfied 
Aviva did everything that could be reasonably expected to help Mr H recover the car as 
quickly as possible. They issued a letter of indemnity and tried to contact Mr H on many 
occasions to try to help him get the car back. Ive also seen no evidence that Mrs H or Mr H 
asked for a courtesy car in the time between the Ford being impounded and Aviva paying 
the £1,170 valuation to Mr H. So Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly in this respect.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im partially upholding Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. Aviva 
Insurance Limited need to pay to Mr H:
£45 for the uplift in valuation of the Ford, plus simple interest at 8% from the date the 
valuation was paid (18 November 2019) to the date of settlement; and
£15 for the taxi fare, plus simple interest at 8% from the date of the incident 
(19 September 2019) to the date of settlement.
If Aviva Insurance Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr H how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if asked for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman