DRN-2425182
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in October 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr C was given two guarantor loans in 2018.
Loan 1 was taken in January 2018. The principal amount was £1,500 repayable over 12
months with monthly repayments of around £154. If the loan ran to term, the total amount
repayable including interest was just over £1,850.
Loan 2 was taken in July 2018. Buddy Loans has described this as a top up loan of £2,000
to be repaid over 12 months with monthly repayments of around £206. If the loan ran to
term, the total amount repayable including interest was just over £2,472.
I understand both loans have been settled.
Mr C complained that Buddy Loans didnt carry out sufficient checks to see if the loans were
affordable before it lent to him.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Buddy Loans needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr C
irresponsibly. And that Buddy Loans should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that he could repay the loans in a sustainable way. The existence of a guarantee and 
the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr C for the loan payments 
didnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation.
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about this
matter in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Loan one
Buddy Loans asked Mr C for information about his income and expenditure and it acquired a
credit report and a payslip. Buddy Loans says the checks it carried out before it agreed to
lend to Mr C were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for him.
On the face of it, it would seem that Mr C had sufficient disposable income to comfortably
afford the loan.
But I thought that Buddy Loans would have been aware from its checks that Mr C already 
had a high level of indebtedness when he applied for the loan. His credit report highlights 
that Mr C had a High credit limit utilisation on accounts; and an impaired credit history, 
including several accounts that were either delinquent or had defaulted in the last 12 
months, as well as County Court Judgments (CCJs) that had not been satisfied. 
Given the type of lending, I thought its reasonable for a lender to expect to see some 
adverse information on the borrowers credit report. Mr C told Buddy Loans that the 
problems on his credit report were due to him changing his address and not informing his 
creditors. But given the amount of adverse information, it seemed to me that Buddy Loans 
ought reasonably to have realised that Mr C had most likely struggled to repay credit during 
the previous year, and there might be a risk that he may not be able to repay his loan 
sustainably over the full 12 months loan term.
Buddy Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the loan had a
guarantor who was equally liable with Mr C. This might have given Buddy Loans more
confidence that the loan repayments would be made. But I didnt think that the existence of
the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mr C himself would be able to sustainably make the
repayments.
I thought in the circumstances, Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that for its
checks for this particular customer to be reasonable and proportionate, it needed a better
understanding of his current financial situation - to ensure that he could sustainably repay his
loan. So I thought Buddy Loans should have gone further with its checks on this occasion 
and carried out more detailed and independent checks to establish Mr Cs true financial 
position  for example by asking to see his bank statements.
However, from the evidence Id seen, it wasnt clear to me whether better checks by Buddy
Loans would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Mr C might have difficulty
repaying his first loan sustainably. So although I thought the lender should have done more 
to check Mr Cs true financial position before it agreed to lend to him the first time, I couldnt 
fairly say that better checks ought reasonably to have led Buddy Loans to conclude that it
shouldnt lend to Mr C. And on the basis of the evidence given, I couldnt fairly say that 
Buddy Loans lent to Mr C irresponsibly when it gave him the first loan.
Loan two
Mr C applied for a second loan around six months later and told Buddy Loans this was for
home improvements. Buddy Loans has called this a top up loan. From what Ive seen of Mr
Cs statement of account, it seems likely that part of the loan was used to pay off the balance
on his first loan.
Buddy Loans carried out some checks and also acquired another credit report. I listened to 
the recordings of the telephone calls that Buddy Loans had with Mr C when he applied for 
his second loan. Buddy Loans advisor queried Mr Cs defaults and his CCJs. Mr
C again gave an explanation and suggested that he had paid off the CCJs and he had no
significant outstanding credit problems. Having listened to the calls, it seemed to me that
Buddy Loans advisor had concerns about the information that the lenders checks had 
uncovered.
I thought in the circumstances that Buddy Loans checks again didnt go quite far enough. 
Buddy Loans had acquired a credit report and pay slips from Mr C, but I thought it had relied 
heavily on what hed said about his financial position. I thought Buddy Loans ought 
reasonably to have sought a more detailed understanding of Mr Cs financial position in 
order to assess whether hed be able to sustainably repay his second loan over the 12-
month loan term.Our adjudicator thought that Buddy Loans ought to have concluded that it was inappropriate
to lend to Mr C for a second time, largely based on what it found in the credit report. But I
didnt think it would have been reasonable for Buddy Loans to simply reject Mr Cs 
application for a second loan. But I did think Buddy Loans should have taken steps to 
independently verify what Mr C was telling it about his financial circumstances  for example 
by requesting bank statements.
But I didnt have enough information to say what I thought Buddy Loans would most likely 
have discovered, if it had carried out better checks before it gave the second loan to Mr C. 
So, even if Buddy Loans had carried out more in-depth checks when Mr C applied for his
second loan, I couldnt fairly say that it would most likely have discovered something about 
Mr Cs financial position that ought reasonably to have led it to realise that Mr C might not be
able to repay his second loan sustainably. And that it should therefore decline his application
for further lending. 
Taking things as a whole, I thought Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that, 
given Mr Cs evident fairly recent history of repaying credit, it need to go further in order for 
its checks to be reasonable and proportionate before it lent to Mr C. But Id not seen enough 
evidence for me to say that I thought its likely that, if Buddy Loans had carried out better 
checks, it ought reasonably to have come to the conclusion that it was inappropriate to lend 
to Mr C on either occasion.
From what Id seen, I could not fairly say that Buddy Loans had treated Mr C unfairly or that 
it lent to him irresponsibly. So I didnt intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint about either
loan.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence before I made my final 
decision. 
Buddy Loans told us it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr C disagreed with my 
provisional decision and he has provided some further information for me to consider 
including some bank statements and his assessment of his income and expenditure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr C for the further information hes provided, but it doesnt change my view 
of this matter and Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, the bank statements Mr C has provided dont cover the period prior to 
either of his loans in January 2018 or July 2018. I have to consider what I think Buddy Loans 
would most likely have discovered at the time, if it had carried out what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, when it was considering whether or not to lend to Mr C. And whether 
Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have concluded from its checks that it shouldnt lend to 
him. 
Mr C has also sent us his analysis of his income and expenditure. But I havent seen enough 
evidence from the time that Buddy Loans made its decision about the lending that confirms 
what Mr C now says was his true financial position.  I appreciate that Mr C says the information hes provided gives an understanding of his 
financial position. But the information isnt sufficient for me to fairly say that proportionate 
checks would most likely have uncovered something that should have led Buddy Loans to 
realise Mr C might not be able to repay either of his loans sustainably.
On the evidence presented, I cannot fairly say that even if Buddy Loans had carried out 
better checks, it ought reasonably to have come to the conclusion that it was inappropriate to 
lend to Mr C on either occasion.
Mr C says he shouldnt be penalised because he cannot provide all his bank statements. But 
having carefully considered everything that both parties have sent us, I find that there isnt 
sufficient evidence for me to fairly say that Buddy Loans lent irresponsibly to Mr C or that it 
acted unfairly towards him.
Given that Mr Cs further comments and information have not changed my mind about this 
complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I know Mr C will be very disappointed by my decision.  But Id like to reassure him that I have 
carefully considered everything that both he and Buddy Loans have told us and all the 
information that has been provided about this matter. Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Cs 
complaint about either loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman