DRN-3187278
The complaint
Mrs B, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief table of the three approved loans for Mrs B.
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm Repayment 
amountWeeks 
Live
1 20/03/2017 07/11/2017 £100.00 £65.00 33 £5.00 33
2 07/11/2017 26/10/2018 £500.00 £410.00 52 £17.50 50
3 26/10/2018 29/11/2019 £500.00 £410.00 52 £17.50 57
Our understanding is that these loans were paid off and so where Mrs B asks in her 
complaint form for the outstanding balance to be written off then I do not think that applies 
here. 
One of our adjudicators thought that by loan 3 Morses ought to have ceased to lend. Morses 
disagreed. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator considered that this 
applied to Mrs Bs situation. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs Bs representative has acknowledged the adjudicators view and its response suggests 
that it agrees with that view and was awaiting the outcome. From that it appears Mrs B does 
not dispute the outcome for loans 1 and 2. Even though I will be considering them as part of 
the lending relationship Mrs B had with Morses, I will not be reviewing loans 1 and 2 as they 
appear resolved. 
I have looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Mrs B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses ought to have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I think that this point was reached at the last loan. 
I say this because:
At this point she had been indebted to Morses for seventeen months, and  
Mrs Bs first loan was for £100 and loan 3 was for £500. So, the amount Mrs B was 
borrowing had increased enormously as well as her being indebted to Morses for a 
significant time. 
because of the above, at this point Morses ought to have known that Mrs B was likely 
borrowing to meet an ongoing and increasing need. And this indicated her problems 
may have been worsening. So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mrs Bs indebtedness was unsustainable. 
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. 
I think that Mrs B lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Mrs B borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loan 3 and Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs B at loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs B may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs B loan 3.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs B towards interest, 
fees, and charges on loan 3, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs B the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Bs borrowing for loan 3 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mrs Bs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part and Morses Club PLC needs to do 
as I have directed in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman