DRN-3142566
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made mistakes in changing the 
account signing mandate and didnt allow a new director to have online access.
What happened
The sole director of P passed away and his son became a director. In March 2020 he 
contacted Barclays as he wanted to become the signatory on the account. He says that he 
needed to complete forms several times and take them into a branch. And that he wasnt 
added to the mandate until June 2020. He was then sent a debit card in the wrong name and 
also couldnt log onto online banking. This wasnt all resolved until November 2020.
Barclays said that it accepted it had provided poor service. It had to block the account when 
it was notified that the former director had passed away. The new director had requested 
mandate forms on 18 March 2020. These had been taken into a branch and one set not 
received at the mandates team and a further one not fully legible. The documents were 
received on 29 May 2020 and the mandate changed by 4 June 2020. 
Unfortunately, a debit card was sent out in the name of a person thought connected to the 
account and known to P. And Barclays said it had dealt with those data breach issues. The 
director was registered for online and telephone banking but the block on the account wasnt 
removed until 26 June 2020. Barclays thought that this had resolved the issue but when 
dealing with the complaint realised that it hadnt allowed the director access to online 
banking. This was available from 4 November 2020. It said that P was able to access the 
account before then in branch, through use of cheque and by telephone banking and there 
had been some use of the account. It had offered £500 to reflect the impact of what 
happened, and this offer remained available.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do more than it had offered to. There had 
been inconvenience caused and the change to the account ought to have happened more 
quickly. But P was still able to access its bank account after June 2020. The fact that P 
received a card in error was poor service, but the breach wasnt of its data and so not 
something that could be addressed in a complaint from P. She recognised the personal 
distress of the director, especially at a time when he had a bereavement. But she said that 
this wasnt something that could be take into account in a complaint by P, which was a 
separate legal entity. Although the director had referred to a potential financial loss for P as a 
result of what happened wed only be considering actual losses.
P didnt agree. The director said that he had spent a considerable amount of time dealing 
with this and was subject to personal stress. He didnt see a distinction with the company as 
he is the sole director. He didnt think £500 was a realistic figure. He said that the nature of 
Ps trading required online account access and he had no access to online banking for five 
months. P could normally trade and made £5,000 to £10,000 a day but he would accept 
£5,000 in compensation. If not he wanted to pursue what he said was Barclays negligence 
through legal means.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key points about what happened here arent in dispute and Barclays accepts that the 
outcome in customer service for P was below its standards. There were issues with the 
location of the forms and also their legibility. As far as the director of P was concerned he 
relied on a branch to check his identification and send the forms. Things can sometimes go 
wrong but here there were sustained problems through to the end of May 2020. And 
Barclays has logged the number of times the director called to find out what was happening.
I am struggling to understand how the debit card was sent out in someone elses name. I 
agree that the impact for that individual isnt something I can consider here in a complaint 
from P.  But the point for P is that the director didnt have the right card. I understand from 
Barclays case notes that a significant credit for P was accepted into the account in May 
2020 and a payment out made at the request of the director in June 2020. He did have more 
access to the account from June 2020 although not to online banking.
My understanding is that the complaint he raised for P in June 2020 wasnt further 
considered by Barclays until October 2020. It then realised that P still didnt have access to 
online banking and addressed the issue with the debit card. All matters are reported as 
resolved by 4 November 2020.
The issue I am considering is the appropriate amount of compensation for P. I need to be 
clear that as our investigator has said P is a separate legal entity and cant suffer distress. 
So, I cant take into account the distress to the director. 
I appreciate P says that its trading has been affected. It has also referred to potential loss of 
opportunities. I can only look at any actual impact. And Id also think it reasonable that P 
looked to mitigate any impact by for example accessing the account in the ways that were 
available. Im not persuaded on the evidence that there is a tangible financial loss for P that 
Barclays can reasonably be responsible for.
Barclays has offered to pay P £500. I have considered our published guidelines about 
compensation and applied my own judgement. P was caused inconvenience and received 
poor service over an extended period.  And Barclays didnt resolve the issues in a timely way 
looking across that period. We dont make punitive awards or generally calculate awards 
based on units of time spent. And Im afraid that the expectations of P for compensation are 
far in excess of what I think is appropriate. Im thinking about Barclays response to what 
happened, and I know I am going to disappoint P when I say that its offer is reasonable and 
not less than the amount I would otherwise have arrived at. 
So, Im afraid I wont be asking it to do more than its already offered to. P remains free to 
pursue this matter in court if it doesnt accept my decision subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay P £500 to resolve the complaint. I think that this is 
fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay P £500 as it 
has offered to do.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman