DRN-2943706
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Share Centre Limited (Share Centre) sent incorrect information 
about one of her investments that led to her selling her shares when she didnt need to. 
Mrs S says she received advice from Share Centre that would have caused difficulties as 
her husband worked for a financial company and this would have breached his personal 
account dealing rules.
Mrs S is also represented by her husband Mr M.
What happened
On 14 July 2020, Share Centre sent out letters to clients who held an investment that I will 
call Company A. This letter said that due to a corporate action by Company A, the shares 
would be delisted and as there was a compulsory liquidation, the shares would need to be 
sold.
On 20 July 2020, Share Centre sent another letter saying that this information was incorrect 
and if clients had sold their shares based on the letter dated 14 July 2020, they could instruct 
Share Centre to reverse the sale.
Mrs S sold her shares on 16 July 2020 and received the proceeds on 20 July 2020.
Mr M contacted Share Centre and said that he worked for a regulated financial firm and said 
that this error affected him as his employer had a Personal Account Dealing Policy in place 
that required employees to obtain permission before dealing. Mr M also said that he was not 
permitted to re-purchase shares within 90 days of them being sold.
Share Centre said to Mr M that the sale would be voided, and this would mean that he 
wouldnt breach his companys Personal Account Dealing Policy.
Mrs S complained to Share Centre following this and said that Share Centre were not 
authorised to give advice and that breaching Mr Ms companys Personal Account Dealing 
Policy could be considered gross negligence.
Share Centre investigated Mrs S complaint and said that the service that she had received 
fell below their normal level. Share Centre apologised and offered £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs S was not happy with Share Centres decision and referred the matter to the service and 
one of our investigated reviewed the complaint.
The investigator thought that Share Centre had attempted to resolve the complaint and had 
acted fairly. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs S had asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mrs S and Mr M feel strongly about the 
complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
One of the important parts to the complaint is that Mr M was bound by his companys 
Personal Account Dealing Policy and that Share Centres actions would have placed him in 
breach of the rules.
These policies are often in place to manage any conflict, or perceived conflicts of interest 
between a regulated firm, its employees and the markets in which they operate. Spouses or 
partners of employees are often in scope of these polices and are deemed connected 
persons.
In order to assist clients or connected persons fulfil the employers 
Personal Account Dealing Policy requirements, a firm may have the ability to send a copy 
contract to the employer. Share Centre have said that they provide this service to send 
duplicate contract notes to be sent to an employer, but Mrs S did not have this request 
enabled.
In their submission to the service, Share Centre have said that one of their employees 
provided information to Mr M that said that the voiding of the sale would mean that there 
would be no breach to his employers Personal Account Dealing Policy. They apologised for 
this as they said the policy may have bespoke conditions prohibiting the course of action 
suggested by Share Centre.
As it happens, Mr M said that his employers would allow the shares to be re-purchased and 
this was carried out and the shares in Company were placed back on Mrs S account.
I have considered the information provided to Mrs S and Mr M and the consequences of this. 
I note that Mr Ms employer allowed the shares to be repurchased and the initial error made 
by Share Centre was rectified and the account re-instated to the same position had the error 
not occurred.
The service cant look at hypothetical situations and consider what may have happened. It 
can only look at the events that did happen and see if any losses occurred as a result of the 
business doing something wrong.
As Mr Ms employer allowed the shares to be repurchased, Share Centre put Mrs S back 
into the position she was in had the error not occurred. In their submission to the service, 
Mrs S and Mr M have suggested that Share Centre should compensate them £1,000 for the 
advice suggested by Share Centre.
The service is not able to punish a business for doing things wrong and only the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority can do this. The service will look at what actions the 
business has taken to put the consumer back into the position they should have been in had 
the error not occurred.I can see the Share Centre repurchased shares in Company A and there was no financial 
loss to Mrs S. As Share Centre have put Mrs S back into the position without any financial 
cost to her, Im not going to ask Share Centre to do anything else here.
Mrs S second part of her complaint is that she lost an opportunity to trade the position due 
to the error advising her to sell. Mrs S would like £500 compensation for this.
I havent seen anything in the file that suggests Mrs S wished to sell her shares or was 
prevented from doing so. As there was no clear intention to sell, I am unable to say that she 
has been financially disadvantaged so Im not going to ask Share Centre to do anything else.
Share Centre offered Mrs S £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by their 
error and said that the service she had received fell below an acceptable standard. I have 
looked at the amount offered, and I think that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and in line with what the service would offer so Im not going to ask Share Centre to do 
anything else.
In summary, I can see that Share Centre made an error in sending out the letter saying that 
shares had to be sold. Although they assumed that repurchasing the shares would not 
breach Mr Ms employers Personal Account Dealing Policy, there was no eventual 
consequence and the shares were permitted to be repurchased and the position reinstated.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman