DRN-3093145
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Metro Bank PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In 2017, Mr B raised a dispute for a number of transactions he wasnt sure he recognised, 
totalling £627.48. Metro temporarily credited this amount to his account.
Later, Metro received information from some of the merchants indicating the transactions 
were genuine. They closed Mr Bs account immediately and registered a marker against him 
at CIFAS. By that point, there wasnt enough money left in Mr Bs account to take back all 
the temporary credits, so Metro wrote off the remaining £476.48.
Mr B complained, explaining he had memory issues following a serious injury, and hed just 
been mistaken. He said hed simply been unsure about the payments, and it was Metros 
staff member whod told him to report them as fraud. But Metro wouldnt change its mind as 
it didnt have evidence of his medical condition.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They said Metro 
should have spoken to Mr B and investigated properly before adding the marker. They 
received correspondence from Mr Bs carers about his condition, and found his testimony to 
be plausible.
Metro didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro needed 
to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities.
Both sides now accept that the transactions were probably genuine. But Mr B says he was 
simply mistaken, and that in fact it was Metros suggestion to raise the dispute when he 
wasnt sure about certain payments.
Metro has not provided any reasonable evidence to show what was said when they first 
spoke to Mr B about these transactions. And once they heard back from some of the 
merchants, they simply added this marker without speaking to him first, or trying to clarify the 
situation, or carrying out an appropriate investigation. They didnt even look into all of the 
transactions involved  so for all we know, some of them may well have not been genuine.
This is a point of concern. CIFAS markers are not blunt tools to penalise customers for 
raising disputes that Metro dont agree with. Metro also said Mr B used bad language  but 
thats irrelevant to this CIFAS marker, too. On its own, these disputed transactions being 
genuine is not a good enough justification for this particular CIFAS marker  as in this 
situation there was every chance this was a mistake by Mr B, or even mis-advice on Metros 
part. Metro needed to have more than just a suspicion: it needed robust evidence to show 
that this was a deliberate, knowing attempt to commit fraud  and not just a mistake or 
misunderstanding. And that evidence needed to be good enough to support a report to the 
authorities. But I cannot see that Metro has such evidence, not least because it did not 
investigate things properly at the time, nor hold onto the relevant records of what was said.
Mr Bs testimony has been clear and consistent  even across multiple years of 
correspondence. Ive also seen correspondence about the care he receives for his memory 
issues. So it seems really quite plausible that he may have had genuine trouble recognising 
these transactions, and that this was all just a misunderstanding. Ive not found a good 
reason to disbelieve him.
It follows that I direct Metro to remove the marker in dispute.
Ive also thought carefully about the wider impact this will have had on Mr B. Hes described 
his difficulty in keeping accounts open, and the distress this matter has caused him. And it 
would have been most disruptive having his account closed without the proper notice. So 
understandably, Mr B has asked us to consider compensation.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell it to pay compensation  to acknowledge 
its error and the impact it had. In this case though, I do note that Metro asked Mr B for 
evidence of his medical situation as far back as 2017, but he didnt provide any at the time. 
And if he had done, I think this matter could have been resolved much earlier. Further, Mr B 
received a refund of £476.48 worth of transactions which later turned out to most likely be 
genuine. Metro wasnt able to take that money back, and instead of chasing him for it, it 
shouldered the loss and wrote it off. And that amount is larger than the amount of 
compensation I would have awarded here. So taking everything into account, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to award anything further in this case.
Putting things right
I direct Metro Bank PLC to remove the CIFAS marker in dispute.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint, and direct Metro Bank PLC to 
remove the fraud marker in question.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman