DRN-3518664
The complaint
Ms S complains that she was mis-sold a holiday club product and the loan used to pay for it. 
The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as Barclays 
Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Ms S is represented by a claims 
management business, which Ill call F.
What happened
F says that, in March 2013, Ms S bought a timeshare week from Silverpoint Vacations SL, a 
Spanish company, which also arranged a loan from BPF to finance the purchase. The loan 
was repaid in or about October 2013. 
In April 2021 F complained to BPF about the sale and subsequent events. It said that 
Silverpoint had misrepresented the product it had sold and had acted in breach of relevant 
timeshare and consumer protection legislation at the time of sale. F said too that Silverpoint 
was in liquidation and was therefore in breach of contract. Because the purchase of the 
timeshare had been funded by BPF, F said that it was equally liable with Silverpoint for Ms 
Ss losses. 
BPFs response was to say that the claims concerned events more than six years previously 
and that they were therefore brought outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act 
1980. 
F referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators considered what had happened 
but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She agreed that claims about events in 
March 2013 were likely to be out of time. As far as the claim for breach of contract was 
concerned, she was not persuaded that the services were not still being provided. She set 
out her opinion in writing in early May 2022. BPF accepted the investigators view. F did not 
and said that it would be challenging, in particular, the investigators findings on time limits 
with an opinion from Senior Counsel. Despite chasers, however, it has provided no further 
evidence or arguments. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for determination.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will comment firstly on the availability of evidence in this case. We have not been provided 
with copies of the purchase agreement and associated documents or of the loan agreement. 
BPFs response to the initial complaint relied largely on a sample agreement which it says 
was in use at the time. The loan agreement would also have been in a standard form; since 
it was repaid in 2013, however, it is unsurprising that a copy is no longer available. 
I mention this not as a criticism of either party but simply to put some of my findings  and 
the assumptions on which they have been based  into context. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
The nature of the loan means that it would have been a regulated credit agreement covered 
by the Consumer Credit Act. I have assumed that Silverpoint acted as credit broker as well 
as being the seller of the timeshare. 
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. In this case, that 
means that anything Silverpoint said about the timeshare or the loan is to be treated in the 
same way as if it had been said by BPF.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. I must 
therefore consider what the position might be if Ms S were to bring a claim or claims against 
Silverpoint, either for misrepresentation of for breach of contract. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
I would make the general comment that the allegations about what was said in 2013 are 
quite vague in this case. Again, that is understandable, given the passage of time. 
However, under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Ms S into the timeshare 
contract were made on or before 13 March 2013. She did not however raise any complaint 
with BPF until April 2021, eight years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would 
conclude that any claim for misrepresentation against Silverpoint would be outside the 
relevant time limit in the Limitation Act. 
In the circumstances, I think that BPFs response to this part of the complaint was 
reasonable. 
Breach of contract 
The relevant time limit for claims for breach of contract is six years from the date of breach. 
F says that Silverpoint breached its contract with Ms S when it went into liquidation (or the 
Spanish equivalent). That was in February 2020.
I am not persuaded however that the liquidation of the seller of the timeshare means that it 
has breached its contract with Ms S. The key issue in my view is whether Ms S is still being 
provided with what she agreed to buy. BPF said in its response to the complaint that the 
current management of the resort has confirmed that customers are still able to book 
holidays and that the resort is still operating. Neither F nor Ms S appear to have challenged 
that; they have not provided any evidence indicating that Ms S is unable to use her 
timeshare property or other services she might have bought. In my view, Ms S has not shown that there is a breach of contract here, and again I think that 
BPFs response to this part of the complaint was reasonable. 
Commission 
F says that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship (within the meaning of section 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act) because Silverpoint failed to disclose the commission it 
was receiving from BPF. It says that it was not sufficient for Silverpoint to say that it would 
receive commission  it had to say how much it would be. I infer from that statement that Ms 
S was told in general terms that commission would be paid. 
F acknowledges that the general duty to disclose commission did not arise until 1 April 2014. 
CONC 4.5.3R (a rule in that part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook dealing with 
consumer credit) came into effect on that date and requires a broker to disclose the 
existence and nature of any commission that could actually or potentially  affect the 
impartiality of the credit broker in recommending the credit agreement CONC 4.5.4R 
makes it a general requirement to disclose the amount of commission if a borrower asks for 
it.    
Earlier case law said that commission should be disclosed where, for example, there is a 
conflict of interest. I do not believe that was the case here, however. Silverpoint was not 
introducing BPF from a range of providers paying different levels of commission; it could only 
arrange the loan with BPF. It is not apparent that there was any actual or potential conflict of 
interest.
The courts (and this service) have also found that many lenders acted unfairly when they 
sold payment protection insurance alongside loans but failed to disclose the very high 
commissions received from the insurers. That is however a very different scenario from what 
happened in this case.  
Regulatory rules (such as CONC) do not generally relax obligations which businesses must 
meet. If anything, they tend to strengthen and add to them. I do not believe that Silverpoint 
would have had to disclose the amount of any commission if it had arranged the loan on or 
after 1 April 2014 (unless Ms S had asked, of course), so I think it unlikely that it had to so in 
March 2013. 
In any event, Ms S does not suggest that she did ask about the amount of any commission. 
If she had asked, there is no reason to think that Silverpoint would not have told her how 
much it was, or that its response would have affected her decision to buy the timeshare or 
take out the loan.  
Conclusions
In summary, therefore:
Any claim against Silverpoint based on alleged misrepresentations made at the time of 
sale are likely to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act. 
I am not persuaded that the liquidation of Silverpoint is a breach of contract that has 
caused Ms S any loss.
It follows that BPFs response to Ms Ss claims under section 75(1) of the Consumer 
Credit Act was reasonable. 
I do not believe that Silverpoint was under any obligation to disclose the amount of 
commission it was receiving. But, even if I were to take a different view on that, I do not 
believe that Ms S would have acted any differently if she had known how much the commission was.
It follows that the loan agreement was not inherently unfair.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Ms Ss complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman