DRN-3925222
The complaint
U, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC asked it for the same 
information on several occasions and provided poor service.
What happened
U says it responded to Barclays about requests for information as part of a know your 
customer (KYC) exercise. But that it was contacted further but not told what information was 
missing. And when it tried to call there were long waiting times. U complained and had to 
chase for a response and doesnt think that Barclays provided an acceptable level of service.
Barclays said that it had a responsibility to meet regulatory requirements. And to ask U to 
provide important information. It says that it doesnt specify what is required in letters given 
the volume of customers involved. And that it asks, as it did here, a customer to telephone. 
Barclays apologised for the waiting times that U experienced due to call volumes. And it said 
it now had all the information it needed relating to U.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said it wasnt our role to 
review business processes and how staff are trained. Barclays said it had contacted U 
where further clarification was required. And Barclays had eight weeks to respond to a 
complaint.
U didnt agree. It said it wasnt questioning the process but how it was delivered. It thought 
Barclays had provided terrible customer service and it expected a higher level. U is moving 
its account to another financial business. And it considered that there were regulatory 
failings in the way that the complaint was registered and so it had to contact Barclays twice 
about this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, and we dont have a role in setting business processes.
Barclays has explained its process and that it asked U to contact it about the information 
requirements. I appreciate that the director of U found that frustrating. But I take into account 
that U clearly understands its business and from what I can see in Barclays case notes 
there were some specific areas it wanted to pursue further each time. Barclays also noted 
that it attempted to call U about this on 1 November 2022 but couldnt get a response or 
leave a message.
The information was clarified on 4 November 2022, and I understand thats the date a 
complaint was made. U contacted Barclays on 17 November 2022 about a response. 
Barclays sent U a box of chocolates although U said it was expecting a hamper. And U also 
called on 25 November 2022, based on what it says in the complaint form, and was told that 
a final response had already been issued on 21 November 2022.
Im not persuaded that Barclays made any mistake in its KYC process. I accept that there 
was a level of inconvenience for U. But as this was a regulatory requirement for Barclays 
that this was necessary. And as I referred to above Barclays documented the specific areas 
it wanted to pursue with U. It says it tried to call U about this and has apologised for the 
waiting times. So, I wont be awarding any compensation here.
Complaint handling isnt a separate regulated activity. And as Im not upholding any part of 
this complaint I cant reasonably consider this as an ancillary issue here. In any event 
Barclays has shown it did provide a response to the complaint although I appreciate U 
wanted this much more quickly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman