DRN-2551121
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) provided 
to him. He says Everyday Lending irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and Everyday Lending had told us. And he 
thought that Everyday Lending hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
Everyday Lending needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Lending needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr G could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Lending provided Mr G with a loan for £5,000.00 in March 2019. It had an APR of 
149.3% and was to due be repaid in 48 instalments of £394.77, which meant the total 
amount to be repaid was £18,948.96. 
Everyday Lending says it agreed to Mr Gs application after he provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on his 
bank statements and a credit search it carried out on Mr G. The information Mr G provided 
about his income and expenditure showed hed be able to comfortably make the repayments 
he was committing to. Everyday Lending says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to 
lend. On the other hand, Mr G has said he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and Everyday Lending have said. The first thing for 
me to say is that as a result of estimating Mr Gs expenditure using Office of National 
Statistics data instead of calculating what it was using the bank statements it asked Mr G to 
show, I dont think that Everyday Lendings checks before providing this loan did go far 
enough.
That said having looked at copies of the bank statements Mr G showed Everyday Lending, I 
cant see anything on them which clearly shows the loan was unaffordable. When Mr Gs 
living costs and regular commitments (should he have consolidated the debts he said he 
was going to) were deducted from his income he still had enough to be able to make the 
payments to this loan without difficulty or the need to borrow further. 
I know that Mr G is unhappy Everyday Lending hasnt been able to provide copies of the 
statements it saw. And I know he considers this suspicious. But its possible Everyday 
Lending doesnt have the statements because it viewed them through his online banking 
And even looking at Mr Gs copies of the statements concerned, I cant see anything on 
them which suggests it was unfair to provide this loan. So I dont think theres any reason for 
Everyday Lending to have manipulated the information in the way Mr G fears it did here.  
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Everyday Lending 
did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr G - it gathered a significant amount of 
information from Mr G before deciding to lend. Everyday Lending reasonably relied on this 
information and given the amount of the repayments appear to have been affordable, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Everyday Lending to provide this loan.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint, I would remind Everyday Lending of its 
obligation to exercise forbearance should Mr G be experiencing difficulty and it choose to 
collect payments from him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman