DRN-1674914
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W booked a holiday in April 2018. They were due to travel in mid-September 
2018. They took out a travel insurance policy online on 7 August 2018 and declared various 
pre-existing medical conditions  including the fact that Mr W suffered from and was treated 
for a bulging disc. 
Unfortunately, a few days later, Mr W suffered from severe back pain and was referred to 
neurosurgery. He was admitted to hospital about a week afterwards. In early September 
2018, Mr W was advised he wasnt fit to travel, so Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip. They 
made a cancellation claim on their policy.
ERGO turned down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. It had looked at Mr Ws medical records and 
noted that hed seen his GP on 6 August 2018, the day before hed taken out the policy. 
Hed been suffering from pain following a nerve block injection hed had to treat his back 
pain a few days before. The GP had discussed a follow-up appointment with Mr Ws pain 
consultant. ERGO said that if Mr W had told it that he had a follow-up booked with the 
consultant; it wouldnt have offered any cover.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with ERGOs decision. They acknowledged that Mr W had 
seen his GP on 6 August 2018 because of pain he was suffering following a nerve block 
injection on 2 August 2018. But they said the GP had spoken to the consultant during the 
appointment and theyd been reassured that it wasnt unusual for the injection to trigger pain 
which would settle with pain relief. There was no indication they wouldnt be able to travel. 
They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mr W 
had accurately answered the questions ERGO had asked him about his back condition. And 
he noted that Mr W hadnt been asked whether he had any follow-up appointments booked 
with his consultant. He felt that if ERGO wanted to know this information, it ought to have 
asked Mr W a specific question. He added that as ERGO had agreed to cover Mr Ws 
bulging disc, he didnt think it could fairly rely on the policy term excluding claims arising from 
pre-existing medical conditions. He recommended that ERGO should reassess Mr and Mrs 
Ws claim.
ERGO disagreed. It said there was clearly an ongoing issue that Mr and Mrs W knew about 
when they bought the policy. And theyd booked the trip several months before. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think ERGO has treated Mr and Mrs W fairly. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs W took out their policy online, they were asked information about 
themselves, their trip and their medical conditions. ERGO used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Mr and Mrs W and if so, on what terms.
ERGO says that Mr W shouldve declared to it that hed seen the GP and been referred for a 
follow-up with a consultant. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and 
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care when answering an 
insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at 
what Mr and Mrs W were asked when they took out the policy.
Its clear that Mr W declared that he suffered from a bulging disc. I can see that ERGO 
accepted this condition for cover and Mr and Mrs W paid an additional premium accordingly. 
He declared that he took daily pain relief medication, including injections into his back and 
neck. It seems, based on a re-screening it carried out, that ERGO considers Mr W answered 
the following question incorrectly:
Are you awaiting any further scans, injections or surgery for your back or neck?
Mr W answered no to this question. So Ive looked carefully at the available medical 
evidence from Mr Ws treating doctors to decide whether I think he answered this question 
correctly.
The medical records show that Mr W had a nerve block injection on 2 August 2018. Theres 
nothing to suggest this wasnt planned treatment and he clearly disclosed to ERGO that 
injections were part of the treatment he received for his bulging disc. The notes then show 
that he got in touch with the 111-service following the injection due to pain and was referred 
back to his GP. Mr W saw his GP on 6 August 2018 suffering from post-injection pain. Ive 
carefully considered the GPs records of this appointment. The GP said:
Attended had spinal injection from pain clinic.last Thursday. In pain right hip and radiating 
to the right thigh (back) and legWhilst here consultant called and said it is normal to expect 
a trigger after a spinal injection. Says to increase painkillers and he will book him a fup 
(follow-up) appointment.
These notes dont suggest that at the point Mr and Mrs W took out the insurance policy, he 
was waiting for further scans, injections or surgery for his back and neck. It simply appears 
that the consultant planned to book Mr W a follow-up appointment due to his post-injection 
pain. And I havent seen any other evidence to suggest Mr W was waiting for more scans, 
injections or surgery on 6 August 2018. So I think he answered ERGOs question accurately.
ERGO didnt ask Mr and Mrs W whether Mr W was awaiting any further appointments, 
consultations or follow-ups as a result of his back pain. So I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs W 
to tell ERGO information they werent asked about. If ERGO wanted to know this information, it was open to it to include a question which would elicit this information during 
the medical screening.
Because I dont think Mr and Mrs W were asked a clear (or any) question about further or 
follow-up appointments for Mr Ws back pain, I dont think theres been any 
misrepresentation. I think Mr and Mrs W answered the questions they were asked 
accurately. So I dont think its fair for ERGO to rely on the non-disclosure of this information 
to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
ERGO has said that Mr W was suffering from an exacerbation of his symptoms when he 
bought the policy. And that he was suffering from an ongoing and known problem. Ive 
thought about this. Mr W clearly was suffering from a known problem  which ERGO agreed 
to cover. 
But the medical certificate the GP completed and the available medical records dont 
indicate that Mr and Mrs W shouldve reasonably been aware that his symptoms could lead 
to the holiday being cancelled. I say that because it seems Mr W was told by his treating 
consultant that his pain was normal and would settle down with painkillers. And the GP 
stated on the certificate that Mr W seemed fit to travel on the date he bought the insurance. 
The GP also added that cancellation couldnt have been anticipated until 7 September 2018 
 a month after the insurance was purchased. So even though I accept Mr W was suffering 
post-injection pain when he took out the policy, I havent seen enough to make me think he 
knew hed likely need to make a claim.
Overall, I dont think ERGO has treated Mr and Mrs W fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to reassess Mr and Mrs Ws claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman