DRN-3351747
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his motor insurer Ageas Insurance Limited as he thinks it 
undervalued his car when it was deemed to be damaged beyond repair when its catalytic 
converter (CAT) was stolen. 
What happened
Mr Ls car was damaged by thieves taking its CAT. He made a claim and Ageas garage 
initially felt it could be repaired and Mr L sought to arrange for the garage to provide him with 
a courtesy car. But then the garage decided the car was unrepairable (due to cost). Mr L 
was told Ageas would settle for the market value of the car  which it said was £2,080  less 
the policy excess and no courtesy car would be provided (because the car was not being 
repaired). When Mr L asked to keep the car Ageas agreed but said it would deduct 25% of 
the market value as that is the sum it would have received from the salvage dealer if it hadnt 
let Mr L keep the car.
Mr L complained to this service. He said he believed his car had been undervalued. He said 
he couldnt find many adverts for cars because cars like his are rare  but those he did find 
were on sale for around £5,000. Mr L explained that he believed it was his demand for a 
courtesy car that had caused Ageas to change its mind about repairing his car. And he felt 
its refusal to repair was particularly unfair as he was aware of other insurers allowing similar 
repairs to be done. He also felt that as the CAT was missing, the salvage price for the car 
should reflect that but there was no sign that had been taken account of.
When considering Mr Ls complaint, our Investigator noted that Ageas valuation was based 
on it having checked just one trade guide. Our Investigator obtained two further valuations 
from other trade guides. He said an average of the three of them gave a figure in excess of 
the value Ageas had settled for with Mr L. He said it should pay the difference between its 
value and the average his research had returned  £357.33, plus interest* on the total 
average market value from the date of settlement until the additional sum is paid.  
Ageas accepted the view. Mr L still felt he wasnt being given enough to replace his car. He 
sent a further example of a car which had sold for its asking price of around £6,000. He said 
if the trade guide values were to be used, the lowest of the three  the value used by Ageas 
 should be discounted, with an average of the two higher values used to base his 
settlement on. That would make an additional payment to him of over £500.
Our investigator explained to Mr L that the sold car he had sent details of had done only 
about half the mileage of Mr Ls car, so it wasnt reasonable to say that car was like Mr Ls. 
When Mr L remained unhappy his complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
declaring Mr Ls car a total loss
I know Mr L thinks that his enquiry about a courtesy car caused the garage and/or Ageas to 
change its view about repairing his car. And I can see why he might think that was the case. 
But I dont think that is actually what happened. In saying that I note that Mr L was told 
during his first call with Ageas that given the cars age and mileage it might not be possible 
for the car to be repaired. But Ageas didnt just assume that  rather its garage ordered parts 
to see if a repair could be made. However, having done that, the garage told Ageas it was 
going to cost more to fix the car than had been hoped. The cost to fix the car was then felt 
likely to amount to around £2,000. And that was the value Ageas thought the car was worth. 
So the decision on whether or not to repair the car changed with the unfolding parts and 
repair situation  not because Mr L had wanted a courtesy car. 
Whilst I know Mr L is aware of other cars that have been fixed with this type of damage that 
doesnt mean Ageas was bound to fix his car. It isnt that his car wasnt repairable  rather 
that the cost of repairing it was approaching its value. So Ageas decided it wasnt 
economical to repair the car. And in that instance an insurer is entitled to settle based on the 
cars market value. I dont think that Ageas decision that the car was a total loss was 
unreasonable.
market value
I think Ageas value was low, and I note it has accepted that. It did take that value from one 
of the trade guides. And our usual approach to complaints about valuations is to look at the 
relevant trade guides for valuing second-hand cars. We find these more reliable than figures 
cars are advertised for. That's because the trade guides use extensive research of likely 
selling prices for cars, whereas the price a car is advertised for isn't necessarily the price it 
sells for, if in fact it sells at all. But sometimes an insurer might not be able to get values 
returned from all the trade guides. And when that occurs this service would expect the 
insurer to carry out some further research and/or consideration to make sure that the one 
value returned is likely fair. Ageas didnt do that here.
Our Investigator did that though. He found the following three values from three trade guides 
 the first is the same as Ageas found:
£2,080
£2,337
£2,895
As there is a fairly even spread on these three values, I think it is reasonable to look at an 
average of the three to determine the fair market value for Mr Ls car. Thats £2,437.33, 
£357.33 more than the sum Ageas valued the car at. I think Ageas should always have been 
more diligent in valuing Mr Ls car, and if it had it would have returned a value more in line 
with this figure. So Im going to require it pay the increased sum to Mr L, plus interest* on the 
increased valuation amount from the date of the interim payment until the increased sum is 
paid. 
I know Mr L thinks the lowest of these sums should be discounted and the other two used. 
But I cant see any good reason for discounting any of the prices here. The values are fairly 
evenly spread. And, importantly, just because Mr L is finding adverts of cars for sale at much 
higher prices than any of these values doesnt give me good reason for discounting the 
lowest with a view to creating as higher settlement value as possible for Mr L. Which he 
seems to think it would be reasonable to do.The advert Mr L sent us showing a sold car isnt representative of what Mr Ls car might sell 
for  or cost to replace. That is because it is for a car which has much less mileage than 
Mr Ls  53,000, whereas Mr Ls car has done 117,000 miles. It can be difficult to find exact 
matches for any car. Other search results Mr L sent us showed cars made in different years 
and/or didnt show the number of miles the cars had done. But the trade guides are used 
because they have access to lots of sales data from the motor trade industry  so not just 
what a policyholder can find on any given search of the internet. And the values they 
generate are based on the specifics of the car in question. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to make Ageas change the value paid for Mr Ls car to one based on the sales 
detail he has shown.  
salvage
It isnt unusual for an insurer to have a set agreement with salvage agents. Here Ageas 
receives 25% of the market value of a car when releasing it to its salvage agents. It does not 
negotiate a price for every car. That likely wouldnt be practical. And in line with that 
approach, Ageas didnt, and would not have, negotiated a price for Mr Ls car either. Rather 
if he had not wanted to keep the car and it had gone to an agent for salvage, Ageas would 
have received 25% of the market value from the agent. It reasonably allowed Mr L to keep 
the car. But it was also reasonable that it asked him to pay the 25% it would otherwise have 
received from its agent. It did this by deducting that value from the settlement. That was fair.
Strictly speaking, now the market value has been increased, so should the amount Ageas 
could reasonably claim for salvage from Mr L. But here Ageas was happy to settle at a low 
market value and, if it had relinquished the car to agents for salvage, the £520 deduction it 
made from its original market value settlement is all it would ever have received from its 
agent, regardless of any later amendment to that value. So it doesnt seem fair to make Mr L 
pay more now just because; Ageas low value has been found to be unfair, and because he 
has chosen to keep the car. 
claim handling
Overall I dont think that Ageas handled Mr Ls claim unreasonably. As Ive explained I think 
it could have done more to ensure it gave a fair and reasonable valuation for his car. But I do 
not think it determining the car was a total loss, or that a salvage value could be deducted 
from its market value, was unfair. And I note that Ageas did seek to pay the value it felt was 
due for the car to Mr L  so he did have the benefit of that settlement within about three 
weeks from the date of the claim. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Mr L:
£357.33, being the difference between its value for his car and the fair market value for it 
of £2,437.33, this in full and final settlement of his claim.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £2,437.33 applied from the 27 July 2021 
being the date of Ageas interim settlement until the sum of £357.33 is paid to Mr L.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr L, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman