DRN-3202273
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs P complain about the errors Barclays Bank UK PLC made when processing 
their mortgage application.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs P applied for a mortgage, via a broker, in November 2019. Their application was 
successful and Barclays sent them a mortgage offer on 16 December 2019. The mortgage 
was for £550,999 over a term of 28 years and had an initial fixed rate of 1.89% for the first 
7 years. The mortgage was due to complete on 3 April 2020. 
On 27 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ps solicitor wrote to Barclays requesting the funds not be 
released, as due to the Covid-19 pandemic they were not able to complete on 3 April 2020. 
Unfortunately, Barclays says this letter wasnt uploaded and it released the funds to 
Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors on 2 April 2020.
Mr and Mrs P requested an extension to their mortgage offer but because Barclays had 
already released the funds, which were later returned, it couldnt extend the mortgage offer. 
Barclays advised it could only hold the funds for 28 days, but because Mr and Mrs P needed 
longer the application would need to be rekeyed  in other words resubmitted. 
Mr and Mrs Ps broker resubmitted the application on 7 May 2020 for the same interest rate 
of 1.89%. However, the application was in a queue and wasnt processed until 27 May 2020. 
In the meantime, the broker contacted Barclays and submitted a new application on the 
same terms but for a lower fixed rate of 1.79%. A mortgage offer was issued for this new 
application on 14 May 2020. 
When Barclays processed the resubmitted application on 27 May 2020, it also cancelled the 
new application at the lower rate of 1.79%. Mr and Mrs Ps broker contacted Barclays to ask 
why the application at 1.89% had been processed, and the above was explained to him. The 
broker was then told he could submit a Post Contract Variation (PCV) and select a lower 
fixed rate  which was now at 1.69% - or let the application at 1.89% complete and have 
Mr and Mrs P raise a complaint about the interest rate later. 
As it was approximately a week to the completion date and there were concerns over the 
PCV being processed in time, Mr and Mrs P let the mortgage at 1.89% complete and logged 
a complaint to resolve the issue with the interest rate. The mortgage completed on 
12 June 2020. 
Barclays considered the complaint and agreed that issues had occurred during the 
application process. In order to resolve the complaint, it offered Mr and Mrs P:
£500 to cover additional broker fees.
£717.50 to cover additional rent paid. 
£80 for taking time out of work.
£2,262.12 to cover the difference Mr and Mrs P had to pay between the 1.89% and 
1.79% interest rates. 
£300 for any distress and inconvenience caused.  
Our investigator considered the complaint and felt Barclays offer was fair and covered the 
additional costs Mr and Mrs P had incurred due to the errors. They explained they didnt 
think Barclays had promised Mr and Mrs P could have the 1.69% interest rate without an 
application and that it was reasonable for Barclays to ask for evidence before refunding the 
additional solicitors costs that Mr and Mrs P incurred.  
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They felt the offer of £300 
compensation didnt fairly reflect the extreme distress that Barclays put them through during 
the mortgage application.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 November 2021 where I said:
Mr and Mrs Ps solicitor sent Barclays a letter, by fax, on 27 March 2020 advising the 
completion date had been cancelled and asking it not to transfer the mortgage funds. 
Unfortunately, Barclays has explained this letter wasnt uploaded to Mr and Mrs Ps 
application and the mortgage funds were released on 2 April 2020. 
As the completion date had been cancelled Mr and Mrs P required an extension to their 
mortgage offer. However, as the mortgage funds had already been released and the 
mortgage application completed, Barclays was unable to agree to an extension. But it said it 
could hold the funds for 28 days, until 30 April 2020, before an application would need to be 
resubmitted. 
Barclays accepts that Mr and Mrs Ps solicitor sent a letter asking for the funds not to be 
released and that the letter wasnt uploaded to its system. I appreciate this must have been 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs P, but I dont think there was anything that Barclays could have 
done at this stage to prevent the resubmission of the application. I say this as the letter had 
already been missed, which I think was likely because we were in the beginnings of the 
Covid-19 pandemic and many businesses were having to change operations overnight. 
However, Ive seen a copy of this letter and Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P were unable to 
complete their mortgage on the previously planned date of 3 April 2020. So, Ive thought 
about what should have happened if the letter had been uploaded and Barclays hadnt 
released the funds. 
Under the FCA guidance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, mortgage lenders were 
asked to consider extending mortgage offers for three months. Barclays has confirmed thats 
what it was doing for other borrowers at the time. So, had things gone as they should, I think 
Mr and Mrs P would have had more time to complete on the original mortgage offer. 
However, this didnt happen, and they had to resubmit the mortgage application. The broker 
resubmitted the mortgage application at the same rate of 1.89% on 7 May 2020. Barclays 
advised that it couldnt confirm whether the application had been resubmitted and explained 
that it could be in a queue. The broker then advised he had also submitted a new application 
on the same terms but at a lower interest rate of 1.79% - a rate which wouldnt have been 
available to Mr and Mrs P had they not needed to delay completion due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. So, there were two applications with Barclays. The new application at the interest rate of 
1.79% was approved and Barclays issued a new mortgage offer on 14 May 2020. 
Unfortunately, this mortgage offer was cancelled when Barclays processed the resubmitted 
application for the interest rate of 1.89% on 27 May 2020  something which I think could 
have been avoided considering a new application had been submitted and an offer already 
issued to Mr and Mrs P. 
Once the above was explained to the broker, he was told he could submit a PCV and select 
a lower fixed rate  now at 1.69% - or let the application at 1.89% complete and have 
Mr and Mrs P raise a complaint about the interest rate later. As these conversations took 
place between 3 June and 4 June 2020, Mr and Mrs P did the latter as they had concerns 
about another new application completing in time for the new, then agreed, completion date 
of 12 June 2020. A date which their solicitor had informed Barclays of by letter, sent by fax, 
on 1 June 2020.
Barclays accepts that it made errors with Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application and I would 
agree. I think if Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors letter, which was sent by fax on 27 March 2020, 
had been correctly processed then the need to resubmit the mortgage application could 
have been avoided  which in turn would have avoided the confusion and errors made with 
the interest rate Mr and Mrs P were applying for. I also think Barclays were aware of the 
urgency of the application from the emails and letters Mr and Mrs Ps broker and solicitor 
sent. 
When Barclays makes an error, I would expect it to put its customer back in the position they 
would have been in if the error hadnt occurred. I would also expect Barclays to consider 
what impact the error had on its customer and make an award to fairly recognise this. 
Barclays has offered Mr and Mrs P £500 to cover the additional broker fee they paid. I think 
this is fair in the circumstances because if Barclays had uploaded the solicitors letter, an 
extension could have been granted and the need for further broker services (and associated 
costs) avoided.
Upon evidence from Mr and Mrs P, Barclays agreed to pay £717.50 to cover the additional 
rent they incurred. Neither Barclays or Mr and Mrs P disputes the amount offered, so I see 
no reason to make a further award for rental costs. 
Barclays has also offered Mr and Mrs P £80 for the time they had to take out of work to 
resolve the issue. I note in their submissions to our service that Mr and Mrs P question this 
amount, explaining how long they took to resolve the issue (at least one full working day) 
and what their daily rate at work would be as a comparison. 
Our service wont usually award compensation for someones specific daily rate and Ive 
seen nothing that changes my mind about that in this instance. Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage 
was a personal rather than a professional matter. However, I have considered what 
Mr and Mrs P have said about how much time they spent trying to resolve this issue. I think it 
important to note that some of the time Mr and Mrs P spent sorting out their mortgage would 
always have occurred due to needing to delay completion because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. I therefore think £80 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as I think that it 
fairly represents the additional time Mr and Mrs P had to spend sorting this problem out with 
their broker, their solicitor and Barclays.  
Mr and Mrs P have also been offered £2,262.12 to cover the difference they have to pay 
between the 1.89% rate they secured for their mortgage and the 1.79% rate which was 
cancelled. Mr and Mrs P believe the difference should be calculated between the 1.89% rate and the 1.69% rate their broker was made aware of during the application process. They say 
that Barclays led them to believe the 1.69% rate could be retrospectively applied following 
their complaint. 
Ive read the email chain between Mr and Mrs Ps broker and the Barclays advisor. I dont 
agree that the broker was told the lower 1.69% rate could be retrospectively applied 
following a complaint. The advisor does explain that an interest rate of 1.69% was available 
and this could be applied for through a PCV, but they dont say this would be available 
following a complaint. The advisor also says that the only other option is to let the current 
application complete and then raise a complaint. But considering the context of the emails I 
believe he was referring to the application for the 1.89% rate and the cancelled mortgage 
offer at 1.79%, not the new available product at 1.69%.
Mr and Mrs P never submitted an application for the 1.69% rate as they had concerns about 
whether the mortgage would complete in time if they did so. I can see why they had 
concerns about that. However, I dont think the 1.69% rate was ever one they would have 
been eligible for had things gone as they should from the start  and so I dont think it would 
be fair to require Barclays to pay them the difference between the 1.89% and 1.69% rates. 
However, as Mr and Mrs P had previously been provided with an offer for a mortgage at the 
1.79% rate, I think its fair that Barclays honour this agreement  which it has done by 
calculating the difference.
I also think it should be noted that if the mortgage offer had been extended as Mr and Mrs P 
initially wanted, it would have been done on the 1.89% rate. Mr and Mrs P would still have 
had the option to change the interest rate, but a PCV would still have needed to be 
submitted before a new rate could be secured. As Mr and Mrs P had concerns about the 
mortgage completing in time, I think it likely they still would not have taken this risk.
Mr and Mrs P have said that due to the errors caused by Barclays they have incurred 
additional solicitors costs. Theyve provided evidence showing the solicitors estimated fees 
before the application as £1,542 and the final amount charged on their invoice as £2,723.10. 
Barclays has said that it would be willing to consider paying the difference in solicitors costs 
but would need to see an itemised bill first. This would allow it to establish the additional 
work carried out that arose directly from the errors it made. Ive asked Mr and Mrs P to 
obtain this evidence from their solicitor, but unfortunately, theyve been unable to do so as 
their solicitor hasnt fulfilled their request. I dont think it likely Mr and Mrs P will be able to 
obtain an itemised bill from their solicitor considering they have already tried on more than 
one occasion to do so. 
I think the evidence that has been provided does indicate the errors Barclays made had 
some impact on the costs Mr and Mrs P incurred with their solicitor. Ive seen copies of 
letters the solicitor had to send in response to the funds being released early, and the 
difference between the estimated fees and final invoices indicates further work needing to be 
carried out. However, I think that some of the additional solicitors costs would always have 
been incurred by Mr and Mrs P due to the fact they needed to delay completing on their 
mortgage because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
With this in mind, and in all the circumstances, I think a fair resolution would be for Barclays 
to reimburse Mr and Mrs P half of the difference in solicitors costs to recognise the impact 
its errors had on the overall costs Mr and Mrs P incurred. For the avoidance of doubt this 
would be a total of £590.55.
With regards to the broker fees, additional rent and solicitors costs, Barclays should also 
pay 8% simple interest per year on these costs to account for Mr and Mrs P not having access to these funds  which they otherwise would have if not for Barclays errors. This 
should be paid, upon evidence from Mr and Mrs P, from the dates each payment was made 
until the date of settlement. If Mr and Mrs P are unable to provide evidence of when any of 
these costs were paid, then interest should be paid from the completion date of the 
mortgage until the date of settlement, as this is when most costs would have likely been 
finalised and settled.
I think its clear that Mr and Mrs P experienced distress and inconvenience during this 
process. In summary, theyve explained the situation impacted their health and they were 
under pressure from other people in the property chain to complete on the purchase. 
Mr and Mrs P say they felt they were in limbo and received no direction from Barclays as to 
what was going on, making them fearful that they would lose the substantial deposit they 
had paid towards the property. They also say their son lost out on a school placement 
because of the delays. Id like to thank Mr and Mrs P for providing the detailed accounts of 
how they were affected by this situation. 
Whilst I agree that the errors Barclays made during the application process caused 
Mr and Mrs P distress and inconvenience  in particular the confusion with the interest rate 
so close to the completion date  I dont think it can fairly be held responsible for everything 
that happened. This is because some of the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs P have 
explained they experienced, in my opinion, wasnt a direct consequence of Barclays errors 
but was due to a combination of several outside influences. Such as, the impact the Covid-
19 pandemic had on the property market and the pressure from other people in the property 
chain.
This isnt to say that Barclays didnt contribute to the distress and inconvenience 
Mr and Mrs P experienced. Its clear the confusion Barclays caused with the different 
applications and interest rates, and not having a mortgage in place when Mr and Mrs P were 
ready to complete, would have caused some distress and inconvenience. But it would be 
unfair to hold it responsible for the aspects outside its control. When taking everything into 
consideration I think £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence they wanted to raise 
by 23 December 2021. 
Both Mr and Mrs P and Barclays have since responded accepting my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties responded accepting my provisional decision. Therefore, in the circumstances, 
I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. If not already done so, Barclays Bank UK Plc 
should pay Mr and Mrs P: 
- £500 to cover additional broker fees.
- £717.50 to cover additional rent paid. 
- £80 for taking time out of work.- £2,262.12 to cover the difference Mr and Mrs P have to pay between the 1.89% and 
1.79% interest rate. 
- £590.55 for the additional solicitors costs.
- £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
- Upon evidence from Mr and Mrs P, pay 8% simple interest per year* on the broker 
fees, additional rent and solicitors costs, from the dates each payment was made 
until the date of settlement. If evidence cant be provided, pay this from the 
completion date of the mortgage until the date of settlement.
*if HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman