DRN-2849139
The complaint
Mr G complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr G took out two MoneyBoat loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountHighest   
monthly  
repayment*
1 May 2019 November 
20196 £500 £148.86
2 November 
2019Outstanding 6 £750 £244.21
Mr G mainly said that MoneyBoat didnt do appropriate affordability checks and had it done 
so it wouldve seen previous defaults and missed payments and should have realised that 
these loans werent affordable for him.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and MoneyBoat told us about these loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that the information gathered 
raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that MoneyBoat saw anything that 
shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. And our adjudicator didnt 
think that the number of loans Mr G took, the amounts they were for or the period of time he 
was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, shouldve shown MoneyBoat he mightve 
been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
In particular, Mr G felt that that MoneyBoat did not look into his credit history thoroughly 
or take into account his payment history on the first loan when agreeing loan 2. He sent 
us his bank statements to show us more about his financial situation at the time.
Mr G has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and so it comes to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. Id like to reassure Mr G that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our adjudicator.
 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant to the outcome. If I dont comment on everything Mr G has said during the course of 
this complaint thats because theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our adjudicator 
has said in response already. But I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on 
the outcome of this complaint. And I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
MoneyBoat provided Mr G with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
MoneyBoat needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
MoneyBoat was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr G before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Gs complaint. 
MoneyBoat says it agreed to Mr Gs applications after carrying out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. It relied on information Mr G provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies. It did its own 
background checks to verify the amount of Mr Gs declared take home pay. 
It says the information it had about Mr G showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become 
difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with MoneyBoat, at this early stage, Mr G didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted MoneyBoat to any underlying money problems. 
The information MoneyBoat had gathered about Mr Gs finances suggested that he was 
comfortably able to afford this borrowing as it looked like Mr G shouldve had around £710 
disposable income. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr G provided or the other information 
MoneyBoat had recorded, which meant that MoneyBoat shouldve taken further steps to 
check the information Mr G had declared. Whilst I think its fair to say that MoneyBoat could 
see that Mr G had some adverse credit history, from what Ive seen from its checks, bearing 
in mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record 
and sometimes an impaired credit history, there wasnt anything that Id expect a lender to 
be unduly concerned about at this stage. It was early in the lending relationship and I think the checks were enough for MoneyBoat to 
agree to lend. 
So I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr G took out the second loan around the time he paid loan 1  and he 
borrowed a substantially larger loan this time. But I dont think these things on their own 
were enough to make MoneyBoat think that Mr G was becoming increasingly indebted or 
struggling with being over stretched financially.
MoneyBoat asked Mr G to update the information he provided about his finances each time 
he applied for a new loan. I think its fair to take into account that loan 2 still looked to be 
affordable for Mr G. I dont think his payment record on loan 1 was enough to make 
MoneyBoat think he would find it hard to pay for this borrowing. The overall amount Mr G 
would be paying for credit after taking out loan 2 was still within the bounds of what 
I consider reasonable in the circumstances. And the figures hed declared, and the 
information MoneyBoat had collected, seem to support MoneyBoats lending decision. 
There wasnt enough in the credit check information that MoneyBoat could see that I think 
wouldve made it realise at that stage that Mr G couldnt afford to pay this loan in a 
sustainable way. I've taken into account that Mr Gs total credit balance had increased in 
between loans 1 and 2. But this seems to be the result of Mr G taking out a hire purchase 
agreement in July 2019  in other words, he borrowed money to buy something rather than 
to obtain spending money. I dont think in these circumstances I can fairly say that 
MoneyBoat should have seen this as a sign that Mr G was having trouble managing his 
finances or struggling with debt. 
And I think it was too soon for MoneyBoat reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr G was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help.
Mr G feels that MoneyBoat didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before 
agreeing to lend to him. But at this stage of the lending relationship, and given these loan 
amounts and terms, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required MoneyBoat to ask 
Mr G to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he 
had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. So I dont think 
MoneyBoat did anything wrong when it made its lending decisions based on the information 
it had at the time  without asking to see Mr Gs bank statements. 
I dont think a proportionate check wouldve required MoneyBoat to ask to see Mr Gs bank 
statements. And having seen these myself, I think its fair to say that they dont show 
sufficient evidence of serious money management problems for me to be able to say that 
even if MoneyBoat had seen this information it shouldve made different lending decisions 
and not provided these loans. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr M said about the responses he had from some other 
high cost lenders. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  
Im sorry that Mr G has found repaying all his borrowing difficult. And I accept that in reality 
Mr Gs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other information MoneyBoat obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to 
be able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont 
think that MoneyBoat did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr G. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr G but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I would just remind MoneyBoat that it has an obligation to treat Mr G positively and 
sympathetically in any discussions if he needs further time to pay. And if Mr G would like 
help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free debt advice on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman