DRN-3400757
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt done enough to protect him against the 
loss of money to a scam.
What happened
Mr W says that on 4 February 2021 he was called by someone pretending to be from the 
FCA, who said he was owed money but he needed to make a payment for this to be 
released to him. Mr W consequently made a payment of £1,544.01 on 4 February 2021 to 
cex.io using his Barclays Visa debit card. 
Mr W subsequently reported to Barclays that hed been scammed. Barclays raised a 
chargeback, refunding Mr W the £1,544.01 initially, but then re-debiting it later when it 
considered the chargeback unsuccessful. Mr W complained, and remaining unhappy, 
referred his complaint about Barclays to us. As our investigator (who didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld) couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as 
the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Should Barclays have prevented the payment in the first place
I dont think Barclays could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payment Mr W 
says he lost to a scam. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to 
process payments a customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services 
Regulations and terms and conditions of the account, Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a matter 
of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps to identify and help 
prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had 
(and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
In my opinion, the payment  at £1,544.01  just wasnt sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic 
or suspicious to reasonably say Barclays shouldnt have allowed the payment through 
without first getting in touch with Mr W to check everything was in order. Our investigator 
noted that Mr F previously made a payment of a similar amount (of £1,363.14 in July 2020, 
not as a result of a scam but to a different merchant). In any event, I dont think I can 
reasonably say there was anything about this payment that ought to have sufficiently stood 
out to Barclays. I cant see there were any warnings about the merchant Mr W paid (cex.io) 
that ought to have concerned Barclays. I understand cex.io was involved in cryptocurrency, 
but not all payments made for cryptocurrency are a result of a scam. And in this case I dont 
think where the payment was headed ought to have automatically triggered Barclays 
attention. 
This means that as Barclays didnt interact with Mr W at the time of the payment  and Ive 
concluded that I cant reasonably say Barclays ought to have been obliged to have gotten in 
touch with Mr W about it  Im satisfied Barclays didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the payment before it was sent. 
Chargeback
After the payment was made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Barclays to have done anything
further until Mr W notified it hed been scammed. Then, because this was a debit card 
payment, the only recourse for potential recovery of the payment would be via the 
chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card 
issuers (here, Barclays) and the merchant (here, cex.io). 
Barclays raised a chargeback for Mr W and credited the £1,544.01 back to Mr Ws account 
pending the outcome. This was in an effort to assist him in recovering his money and an 
exercise of its discretion.
I understand Mr W is unhappy Barclays, on receipt of the merchants chargeback defence, 
re-debited the £1,544.01 from his account. And hes said he would have wanted the 
opportunity to respond to what the merchant said. But like our investigator, I dont think this 
would have made a difference here, either way. This is because  again as our investigator 
explained  the payment was to Mr Ws own crypto wallet with cex.io, a legitimate business 
that provided the services (the purchase of cryptocurrency) as intended. And any 
subsequent transfer of the cryptocurrency to a different wallet (made as a result of the scam 
Mr W says he fell victim to) would be a separate matter to the payment Mr W made from his 
Barclays account to his cex.io crypto wallet  and therefore not one Barclays would be able 
to raise a successful chargeback on. So I think Barclays reasonably concluded the 
chargeback couldnt succeed, and that it was reasonable to therefore re-debit the £1,544.01 
at this point. 
I realise this means, from what he has said, that Mr W is out of pocket by £1,544.01. But I 
think this would ultimately be caused by the scam here, and not Barclays. I cant reasonably 
ask Barclays to refund this to Mr W in circumstances where I dont think it did anything 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman