DRN-3869817
The complaint
Mr A has complained that his travel insurer, Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes), turned 
down a claim he made after his mobile phone was stolen whilst travelling abroad. 
All references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr A made a claim to Great Lakes for the theft of his mobile phone whilst 
travelling abroad. He said he was in a nightclub and had his phone in his bag. He went to 
visit the toilet and left the bag with bar staff. When he returned he realised the phone had 
been stolen. 
Great Lakes asked Mr A to provide a number of documents in support of his claim, including 
proof that the phone had been blacklisted, proof of usage, proof of purchase and the crime 
reference (from the matter being reported to the police).
Great Lakes approved the claim in September 2022 and said it would pay Mr A £750 which 
was the policy limit under the relevant section. Nevertheless, a few days later it decided to 
reject the claim. It said that Mr A had left his phone unattended (something thats excluded 
under the policy) on a wall outside the nightclub and went inside and found out it had been 
stolen when he returned. 
Great Lakes also said there were discrepancies between what Mr A reported to it and to the 
police. It said Mr As incident description to it said that his phone was stolen from his 
backpack when he was leaving to go to the toilet. It believed the police description to be the 
most accurate as it was given closer to the time of the incident. Great Lakes also said Mr A 
told it the incident happened on 23 July but the police report says 20 August. It added that 
Mr A didnt report the theft to his network provider until 16 days after the incident which went 
against the terms of his policy. It also said he had provided misleading information in order to 
gain an unfair advantage and that he had intentionally taken his phone out of his bag and left 
it on the wall. 
Mr A didnt agree and complained. He said the incident happened inside the nightclub and 
that it had been reported within 24 hours. He said the phone was not unattended and it was 
accessible and within his reach near the toilets where the coats and belongings are kept. He 
said he did not leave the venue or that hed left his phone visible to be stolen and added that 
hed asked the staff to watch his belongings. He also said the police report was drafted in a 
foreign language which he doesnt speak and so he couldnt read it to make sure it had been 
accurate. 
Great Lakes issued a final response and reiterated some of the points it had made already. 
In terms of the phone not being left unattended it said even if the phone was inside the 
venue it would still be classed as unattended as a third party had easy access to it and also 
as it was not on Mr A or within his sight or reach. 
Mr A then complained to us. Our Investigator who looked into the complaint didnt think it 
should be upheld. She said that the phone had been left unattended regardless of whether it 
was left outside as per the police report or with bar staff. She also said that Mr A had failed 
to report the theft to his network provider within 24 hours as per the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said Great Lakes website 
which he used to report the claim kept timing out so he wasnt able to give a clear account of 
what happened. He added that he delayed reporting the matter to his network provider as he 
was still abroad and the only device he had which had internet had been stolen. He said the 
fact that the claim was approved and then rejected shows that Great Lakes is looking for 
trivial matters to reject the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it.
 
The starting point is the policy. Mr As policy provides gadget cover which includes cover for 
theft. It also says that such claims must be reported to the police and the insureds network 
provider within 24 hours of discovering the incident. The policy says it does not cover any 
claim where the insured knowingly leaves the gadget somewhere unattended. It defines 
unattended as being neither on the insured or within their sight and/or reach.
  
Ive considered the police report which we had translated. It states that Mr A was in the 
vicinity of the nightclub, sitting on a wall. While sitting on the wall he left his phone and 
decided to go somewhere nearby. When he returned his phone was gone. 
The policy is clear in terms of how it defines unattended. From the description given in the 
police report I think the phone was left unattended as Mr A didnt have the phone on his 
person or within sight or reach. Furthermore, I also feel that the police report provides the 
most accurate account of events as it was completed nearer the time of the incident, 
compared to when Mr A made his claim to Great Lakes. So I think his recollection when he 
spoke to the police would have arguably been better than when he made his insurance 
claim. For this reason I think Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably when it relied on the 
police report and I also think its decision that the phone had been left unattended was 
reasonable.
 
Great Lakes said Mr As incident description to it said that his phone was stolen from his 
backpack when he was leaving to go to the toilet. And Mr A told us he had left his backpack 
with his phone in it with bar staff where the bags are kept. Even if the events happened as 
Mr A described to Great Lakes I still think the phone was left unattended as per the policy 
definition. This is because the phone wasnt on his person or within sight or reach- as Mr A 
was in the bathroom and the phone was with bar staff where coats and belongings are kept 
(presumably the cloakroom). 
Mr A said it is reasonable to go to the toilet without this constituting leaving ones belongings 
unattended especially if asking others to keep an eye on them. He also said that the phone 
was within his reach as he was still within the premises and in physical proximity to it. The 
policy says that items can be left with close family but I accept that we dont always travel 
with family and this isnt always possible. Nevertheless, I wouldnt have considered it 
unreasonable if Mr A had taken his phone with him to the bathroom as it is a small item. 
I dont think his only option was to leave the phone in his bag. As it is a relatively small item I think the option of having the phone on his person whilst in the bathroom was open to him. 
In terms of having the phone within reach as Mr A wasnt in a position to see the theft and try 
to prevent it as he was in a different room then I dont think it was within his reach. 
As I consider that Great Lakes was acting within its policy terms when it rejected the claim 
as the phone was left unattended I havent gone on to consider whether it was also entitled 
to do it under the other sections it cited in its final response. For clarity though I should say 
that the translated police report states that the incident happened on 20 July not 20 August 
as Great Lakes stated. And from what I have seen the theft was reported to Mr As network 
provider nine days after the event not 16.
 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons I have given, 
unfortunately, I dont think that his policy covers him in this particular situation. And I dont 
think this is a situation where it would be fair and reasonable for the insurer to go beyond 
what the policy covers.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold his complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman