DRN-1917626
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he was given by Santander UK Plc in March 2012 when he 
took out a Prudential Flexible Investment Plan. Specifically, Mr M says he was told that he 
could make a full withdrawal from the bond after the first twelve months without any tax 
implications, yet when he tried to make a withdrawal he was informed that only 5% can be 
taken tax-free. 
Mr M also says he is unhappy with the commission he was charged when the investment 
was sold, and that he feels it is unfair Santander no longer offers advisers in branch to 
discuss his investment. 
What happened
After receiving advice from a Santander adviser in branch and a suitability letter sent to his 
home address, Mr M invested £36,000 into the Prudential bond. The investment was placed 
in the Prudentials Cautious fund. It also had a PruFund Protected Guarantee feature 
whereby it would ensure that Mr Ms original capital was guaranteed at the 6th anniversary of 
the investment, notwithstanding any withdrawals if Mr M took those from the bond. 
In 2013, Mr M reviewed his investment and says he discovered Santander had been paid 
£2,790 commission at the time of the sale  something he wasnt previously aware of. Mr M 
therefore decided to discuss this at a Santander branch. However, when he did so he was 
informed that Santander had withdrawn its advice facility. Mr M says he couldnt take the 
matter any further. 
In 2016, Santander wrote to Mr M. It explained that following the Retail Distribution Review 
(RDR) which caused it to withdraw advisers in branches, Mr M had not been able to have a 
review of the bond to be sure it was meeting the aims that had been identified in 2012.  
Santander also concluded that the bond may have been unsuitable for any customers that 
did not want to have their funds tied up for the medium term or longer or those who may not 
have wanted to take some degree of risk with their capital. On this basis it was prepared to 
allow Mr M (the same as any other affected customers) to encash the investment early. It 
noted that the value of Mr Ms investment at that time was £41,898 and compared this to the 
value of risk-free, deposit-based returns which would have been £38,774. As Mr M hadnt 
made a loss, Santander did not believe he was owed any further compensation. 
This offer letter explained that on maturity or encashment, the bond could be may trigger a 
chargeable event gain and an income tax liability.
Mr M complained by calling Santander in December 2016. He explained he was unhappy 
about the withdrawal of in-branch advisers and its inaction following the sale of his bond. He 
did not take up Santanders offer of early encashment of the investment. 
Santander issued a response to the complaint on 24 January 2017. It rejected the complaint 
point in respect of its decision to withdraw advisers, noting it had made a business decision 
to do so following the Financial Service Authoritys (FSA) change to the rules around the 
provision of financial advice as required by the RDR. And though Mr M had not chosen to 
take it up on the offer to withdraw from the investment, it had now conducted a review.
In 2019, Mr M enquired about encashing his investment, which by this time had made a 
return of approximately £8,894. Santander wrote to him in October 2019 providing 
information on how taxation worked with investment bonds. It also set out a hypothetical 
valuation for him and confirmed the amount of the resulting chargeable gain, had he gone 
ahead and withdrawn all of his funds as at 18 October 2019.  
Mr M then complained again to Santander, as he said it had never made him aware of the 
prospect of a chargeable gain, and this was only raised in 2019 after his query about the 
value of the investment. 
Santander issued a final response to this complaint on 17 October 2019. It said it had made 
Mr M aware of the nature of taxation on chargeable gains at the time of the sale, as well as 
reminding him in 2017. It therefore rejected the complaint.   
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He reiterated that he has 
paid commission for a service that he has not received  this was not made clear to him in 
2012 and by 2013, Santander had stopped offering advisers in its branches, something he 
continued to be unhappy about.
Mr M told our investigator that in addition to his complaint about taxation on his investment, 
he remained unhappy about two issues with the investment that he has raised before  firstly 
that he was charged commission and secondly, that the facility to receive financial advice 
had been withdrawn.
When our investigator reviewed the complaint, she noted that Mr M had already complained 
about the withdrawal of advisers in 2016 as part of a wider complaint about the sale of the 
policy and its suitability for him. Santander had issued a final response to that complaint in 
January 2017. She therefore asked Santander if it would consent to allowing Mr Ms 
complaint to continue. 
Santander said it did not consent for the complaint point about advisers to be allowed to 
continue, as Mr M had referred it here too late. It also said it didnt agree to the complaint 
about commission to be allowed to continue either  Mr M had known about it in 2013 but he 
didnt bring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service until late 2019, which was 
longer than the six-year and three-year time limits set out in the rules applying to this 
service.  
Our investigator said she believed the two previous complaint matters were made too late. 
Firstly, Mr M had been issued a final response in January 2017 which addressed the point 
about advisers, and he therefore had six months in which to bring that matter to this service. 
Because he didnt do so, it couldnt be looked at further. Similarly, the complaint point about 
the commission was brought later than the additional six-year and three-year time limits and 
that couldnt be reviewed either.  
In respect of the 2019 complaint, our investigator did not think it should be upheld. She said 
she believed the taxation on chargeable events was set out clearly to Mr M at the time of the 
sale. Whether Mr M would go on to be charged further tax was something he may want to 
seek separate advice about, but she did not think Santander had acted unfairly in the way 
the investment operated.  
Mr M disagreed. He said he believed all three aspects of his complaint ought to be 
considered and he asked that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman. Neither party made any further submissions for me to consider.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
our jurisdiction
To be clear to the parties, though this complaint (comprising three distinct parts) has been 
referred to me to consider the merits, Mr M continues to disagree about the two aspects of 
the complaint that our investigator says do not fall within our jurisdiction. So that does not 
mean that jurisdiction can no longer be considered. Before a final decision is issued, relevant 
case law supports that the matter of jurisdiction remains unresolved and can still be 
addressed. 
Like our investigator, I believe the two complaint points fall outside of our time limits. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service are set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook. Im not able to avoid the rules or apply discretion to certain 
rules. 
A specific rule, DISP rule 2.8.2 R (1), says I cant consider a complaint which has been 
referred to this service more than six months after the date of a final response letter (FRL) 
telling a party that they can refer the complaint to us.
Another rule, DISP rule 2.8.2 R (2), says that I cant consider a complaint (or in Mr Ms case, 
aspects of his complaint) if it was pursued more than six years after the event complained of, 
or (if later) three years from the date on which a complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he or she had cause for complaint. 
These time limits are absolute unless the business consents to waiving the time limit, or if 
there are exceptional circumstances that prevent a complainant from lodging the matter with 
this service. As noted before, Santander has said it does not consent to allowing the two 
complaint points to proceed.
Mr M says he discovered in 2013 that he was charged commission when he took out his 
investment  and though he went to a branch to discuss it, he wasnt able to pursue the 
matter further because by this time, Santander had stopped having advisers in branches.
I appreciate Mr M feels frustrated about the commission arrangement. However, he did not 
bring his complaint here until October 2019. That is more than six years after the event he 
complains of (the sale in March 2012). So, I agree with the investigator that the complaint is 
out of time on the six-year limb of the DISP rule. Ive therefore gone on to look at the three-
year limb of that rule.  
The three-year time limit relies on awareness, whereas the six-year limit does not. This is to 
account for situations where a consumer does not realise he or she has reason to complain 
until a later date  which can be more than six years after the event took place. However, 
that rule also sets out that I must consider if the complainant ought reasonably to have had a 
cause to complain sooner than he or she did. 
Mr M has confirmed he knew about the commission arrangement in 2013, which is why he 
had wanted to query it  though this did not transpire into him pursuing a complaint. 
Nonetheless, I do believe that by this time, Mr M was aware he was unhappy about the commission payment. And therefore, the three-year time limit began to run from 2013. 
This part of the complaint was therefore pursued too late. 
The complaint about the withdrawal of the advisers - which again, Mr M had awareness of in 
2013- was pursued within time to Santander (under DISP rule 2.8.2R (2)), as Mr M made a 
complaint to Santander in 2016. However, as Ive said above DISP rule 2.8.2R (1) says I 
cant consider a complaint which has been referred to this service more than six months 
after the date of an FRL addressing that complaint.  
Santander sent Mr M a final response letter on 24 January 2017. It gave findings regarding 
its decision to stop offering advisers in branches. That letter also looked at the suitability of 
the advice Mr M received. If Mr M had wished to further this aspect of his complaint, hed 
have needed to have done so by bringing it to this service before 24 July 2017. However, 
that matter was not raised here until October 2019. I therefore believe this aspect of the 
complaint has also been made too late when looking at the first part of DISP 2.8.2R.
I can waive the time limits under DISP 2.8.2R if the failure to comply with the limit was 
because of exceptional circumstances. However, Mr M has not provided any evidence or 
explanation which would amount to such circumstances. 
In conclusion, neither complaint point can be allowed to proceed as they have been pursued 
outside of the time limits that I must apply. 
the complaint regarding taxation
Mr M hasnt complained about the wider suitability of the policy for his circumstances in the 
context of this complaint. That was addressed by Santanders review in 2016. He specifically 
complains about his liability to taxation. 
I recognise Mr M felt particularly unhappy that when he decided to encash his investment in 
full upon his retirement, he discovered the possibility that he may pay tax on the investment 
returns, as a chargeable event. This complaint is made within our time limits because Mr M 
pursued the matter within three years of the query made in 2019 and within six months of 
Santanders FRL on his subsequent complaint. 
However, Santander was correct to set the taxation issue out for Mr M in his calculation 
letter; the information it gave him in 2019 following his enquiry reasonably explained that full 
encashment of his investment bond could result in it issuing him a chargeable event 
certificate.  
Investment funds within a unit linked bond like Mr Ms already pay tax on income and 
growth. The tax is deemed to have been paid at a rate equivalent to the basic rate of income 
tax. However, further income tax may be payable by an investor on any money withdrawn 
from a bond, be that taken as regular income or as one-off lump sum withdrawal(s). 
The bond has an annual allowance of 5% of the amount invested. If any part of the 
allowance isnt used then this can be rolled-over until the allowance is used up. If the sum of 
the withdrawals in a year is more than the allowance for that year plus any unused 
allowances from previous years this is known as a chargeable gain.
Having looked carefully at the information from the time of the sale, I do not believe 
Santander has acted unfairly in relation to the specific point Mr M now makes about taxation.  The Key Facts documentation provided to Mr M at the time of the sale says:
Income Tax 
You can currently withdraw up to 5% each year of your investment for up to 20 years 
without any immediate tax liability. This allowance rolls over to the following years if its 
not used. However, there may be income tax to pay when:
your plan ends on death;
you cash in all of part of your plan;
you withdraw more than the 5% a year tax-deferred allowance from your plan; or
you transfer ownership of the plan.
Further, the adviser sent a Suitability Report to Mr Ms home address that explained the 
recommendation for the investment she had made and her reasons as to why it was suitable 
for Mr M. Within that letter the adviser noted Mr M had used his ISA allowance for the tax 
year. She went on to explain that if Mr M proceeded with the Prudential bond, what a 
chargeable event was, how it could be incurred in particular circumstances, how income tax 
allowances would be different for Mr M once he was aged 65 and over and specifically how 
those allowances could be affected by a chargeable event.   
Mr M was given the information to review and consider along with a further explanation that 
his personal circumstances would affect any future tax liability. Santander confirmed it did 
not provide specific taxation advice and it was for Mr M to decide if he wished to proceed 
with the investment. Mr M signed a copy of the suitability report the following day, with a 
handwritten confirmation that he wished to proceed.  
In these circumstances I believe Santanders adviser did explain and provide sufficient 
information to highlight to Mr M that, depending on how and when he chose to withdraw 
money from the Prudential bond, he might incur a chargeable gain. I cannot therefore agree 
with Mr Ms complaint point now that he was not made aware of this prospect by Santander 
in 2012. The documentary evidence from the time of the sale shows that this implication was 
set out to him and I believe it was explained clearly. 
I recognise Mr M would like to accept the £200 he was offered by Santander in its 2019 final 
response letter as a goodwill payment for the upset it caused him. However, he was unable 
to do so at the time because the payment was linked to acceptance of the complaint 
outcome. 
I understand why Mr M could not accept the compensation earlier as he wanted to pursue 
the complaint to this service, which he was entitled to do. I am pleased to note Santander 
has told our investigator it will honour that payment following conclusion of the matter by an 
ombudsman. I therefore leave Santander to arrange to make prompt payment of this 
compensation to Mr M irrespective of his acceptance or rejection of this decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. I leave Mr M and Santander to liaise with 
one another in respect of receipt of the previously agreed £200 payment set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman