DRN-3863034
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (UKI) 
handled a claim he made under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
On 19 May 2022 Mr Ss car was stolen but quickly recovered damaged. Mr S wanted to use 
his preferred garage to carry out repairs as his car was a premium vehicle and still under 
warranty. UKI as his insurer had no objections to this. Mr S provided an estimate from the 
garage for the repairs which UKI authorised. Repairs were completed and Mr Ss car was 
ready for collection on 10 June 2022. Mr S was provided with a hire car by UKI.
On 29 June 2022 UKI said it didnt have sufficient information from the garage to settle the 
repair costs. This meant there was further back and forth between UKI and the garage until 
UKI received a correctly addressed invoice. Mr S told us he collected his car on 2 August 
2022. The hire car UKI provided Mr S with was collected on 4 July 2022. 
Mr S complained to UKI about poor service and delays. He was unhappy with the hire car he 
was provided with. 
UKI upheld Mr Ss complaints in June and July 2022 for its poor service and delay. It offered 
Mr S £200 compensation in June 2022 - and increased the offer to £275 compensation in 
July 2022 for an ongoing delay in contacting the garage about the invoice it needed to settle 
the claim and failing to call him back when promised. Until the invoice was paid, the garage 
wouldnt release Mr Ss car to him. 
Mr S didnt accept UKIs offer and asked us to look at his complaints. Our Investigator 
initially recommended UKI pay Mr S an additional £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. She thought it should have extended car hire until Mr S could collect 
his car from the garage. 
Both parties disagreed with the Investigators first view. Mr S thought he should receive £50 
a day for the number of days he was without a hire car. He said he hasnt received any 
compensation payment from UKI.
UKI said Mr S was only ever entitled to a hire car for a total of 21 days. As it provided a hire 
car for 43 days - and the delays in settling the invoice after 29 June 2022 were the 
responsibility of the garage - it didnt agree it should do any more. It said it hadnt made 
payment to Mr S for compensation as he rejected its offer. 
On reviewing the additional information, our Investigator thought UKI had done enough to 
put things right. So she issued a second view and recommended UKI arrange for payment of 
the compensation award of £275 it originally offered to be made to Mr S. 
UKI accepted the Investigators second view. Mr S hasnt replied. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear that UKI caused delays. It delayed arranging for an inspection of Mr Ss car 
in order to approve the repairs. Mr Ss garage provided an estimate on 20 May 2022. 
Repairs were approved on 7 June 2022. I understand Mr Ss car was ready for release by 
the garage from 10 June 2022. 
On 27 June 2022 UKI accepted it had caused delays and offered Mr S £200 compensation. 
It said it would arrange for payment to the garage to be followed up as a matter of urgency. 
However, UKI didnt request a suitable invoice from the garage following repairs until 29 
June 2022. 
On 4 July 2022 UKI offered Mr S a further £75 compensation for failing to call him back 
when promised and its delay in contacting the garage for a suitable invoice. 
For the delay up to and including 4 July 2022, I think UKIs offer of £275 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused is enough to put things right. 
Mr Ss policy with UKI says it will provide him with a replacement car of a similar size to his 
for up to 21 days, irrespective of how long it takes for repairs to be carried out. It says if it 
cannot provide a hire car, it will pay either £50 a day or £500 a claim up to the 21 days. 
I understand Mr S was unhappy with the replacement car provided. I can see this was a 5 
seater SUV. While it wasnt the same engine size or prestige as his car, Im satisfied that 
UKI provided a suitable replacement car in line with the terms of the policy. I dont think UKI 
needs to pay Mr S a daily rate for the period he was without a hire car - as the period he was 
provided with one exceeded the limit set under the policy. I can see from UKIs notes that 
from 29 June 2022 there was back and forth between it and the garage to obtain a correctly 
addressed invoice showing the deduction of the excess so that UKI could settle the costs of 
the repairs. 
I appreciate that Mr S has been caused inconvenience - and I understand he was unhappy 
with not being able to have use of his own car when it was ready for collection. Its clear that 
UKI made errors in the handling of his claim. But I think the compensation UKI has offered 
for its failings in this case is fair and reasonable. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think UKI has done enough to put things right. I require U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Privilege to pay Mr S the compensation it offered totalling £275 
to resolve his complaints. 
U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (UKI) must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman