DRN-2844605
The complaint
Mr C complains about Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd (RCI) and the service they 
provided when he tried to amend his insurance policy after purchasing a new car.
What happened
On 20 May 2020, Mr C renewed his car insurance policy arranged by RCI. This cover started 
on 1 June. 
On 29 September, Mr C says he called RCI to discuss adding a new car to his policy, 
replacing his current one. But he says he was unable to get through to them. So, he 
continued to purchase the new car.
The following day, Mr C spoke to RCI to discuss this further. RCI explained Mr Cs current 
insurer wouldnt provide cover for his new car. So, they said they would look to find another 
insurer for Mr C. 
On 1 October, RCI tried to contact Mr C to put forward a new insurance policy theyd found 
but they say they were unable to speak to him or leave a message. Mr C called RCI the next 
day and rejected the insurance policy RCI put forward as it was too expensive. So, he 
wanted to look for alternative insurance himself.
On 9 October, Mr C called RCI and requested to cancel his current insurance policy. On this 
call, RCI explained Mr C would need to pay a cancellation cost of £119.56. But Mr C was 
unhappy with this, so he complained.
Mr C was unhappy that RCI were charging him a cancellation fee. He was unhappy with the 
service RCI had provided and in particular, how difficult hed found it to speak to RCI to 
discuss insuring his new car. Mr C felt hed been caused unnecessary stress and, as he was 
unable to arrange new insurance with RCI, had been unable to drive his new car during that 
period. So, he wanted the cancellation costs to be waived. And he wanted to be 
compensated for the inconvenience hed been caused.
RCI initially agreed to waive their commission cost of £43.07. Mr C remained unhappy, so 
RCI offered to reduce the cancellation fee by a further £25. And, after Mr C continued to 
challenge the fee, RCI agreed to waive the full cancellation fee altogether. But Mr C 
remained unhappy with this as he also wanted compensation. So, he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt dispute Mr Cs 
testimony that hed struggled to communicate with RCI about the amendment to his 
insurance policy. And she recognised the inconvenience this caused him while he tried to 
arrange alternative insurance. But she thought Mr Cs policy made it clear a cancellation fee 
would be applicable of the insurance was cancelled early. So, she thought RCIs decision to 
waive this entirely was a fair offer to compensate Mr C. So, she didnt think they needed to 
do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He thought he should be compensated on top of the cancellation fee 
being waived. He thought it was RCI who initiated the cancellation of the policy and so, he 
felt RCI had placed him in the position of having no insurance to drive the new car hed 
bought. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I dont doubt it was a 
stressful time for Mr C, as he purchased a new car and was unable to obtain insurance that 
allowed him to drive it. And I can appreciate the inconvenience not having a car available to 
drive wouldve had. And I dont think its disputed that Mr C and RCI struggled to 
communicate effectively when attempting to arrange a new insurance policy and I recognise 
this wouldve made an already stressful situation even more frustrating. But Ive seen RCI 
have already waived the cancellation fee Mr C shouldve paid when he cancelled his existing 
policy early. So, for me to say RCI should do something more, Id need to be satisfied that 
this offer wasnt a fair one to address the inconvenience Mr C faced. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
As Ive explained above, I dont think its in dispute that Mr C and RCI struggled to 
communicate effectively. Ive seen RCIs case notes, which show they were unable to speak 
to Mr C on several occasions. And I think this fits in with Mr Cs testimony, which states Mr C 
was unable to speak to RCI when he called them.
And I dont doubt Mr C attempted to call RCI on 29 September, before purchasing the new 
car, to discuss his insurance options. And as RCI have no contact notes relating to this call, I 
think its reasonable for me to assume Mr C was unable to get through to RCI. And I can 
appreciate how frustrating this wouldve been.
But Mr C chose to purchase the new car, knowing his insurance hadnt been updated. So, I 
think he purchased this car knowing he wasnt going to be able to drive it straight away. And 
Mr C was able to speak to RCI the following day, where they explained his current insurer 
wouldnt insure the new car. RCI explained theyd search for a new insurer, which Ive seen 
they did. And Ive seen no evidence to show Mr C sought for alternative insurance himself 
elsewhere at this point. So again, I think Mr C was aware hed be unable to drive his car and 
accepted this at the time. 
And Ive seen two days later, RCI put forward an offer of insurance to Mr C, which he 
rejected as the premiums were too high. I dont think RCI can be held accountable for the 
premiums set by the insurers they deal with, or Mr Cs decision to reject the offer put to him. 
From what Ive seen, at this point Mr C said he wanted to explore alternative insurance 
himself. So, I think any days Mr C was without insurance after 2 October were his 
responsibility, not RCIs. 
Mr C then called RCI to cancel his policy with them on 9 October. Im aware Mr C rejected 
our investigators initial view as he felt the cancellation was initiated by RCI. But I cant see 
thats the case. From the case notes Ive seen, it was Mr C who decided to cancel his policy 
as he was unable to add his new car to his current policy, and the alternative policy found by RCI was too expensive. Although I can appreciate it wasnt Mr Cs fault his current insurer 
wouldnt cover his new car, I dont think it was RCIs either. And RCI did find another policy 
that gave Mr C the chance to continue his cover with them, for an increased premium. So, I 
dont agree that RCI initiated the cancellation. Instead, I think Mr C initiated this as he didnt 
want to pay the premium put to him by RCI. 
And Ive seen the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr C held with RCI. And I think 
these made it reasonably clear if a policy was cancelled during the policy term, a 
cancellation fee would be applicable. In Mr Cs situation, this fee came to £119.56. From 
what Ive seen, this fee was calculated in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement 
and RCI were reasonable to charge Mr C for this amount.
But RCI have waived this, to recognise the difficulties Mr C faced when trying to arrange his 
new insurance with them. And to recognise the fact it wasnt Mr Cs fault his current insurer 
wouldnt cover the new car he purchased. So, by waiving this fee, I think RCI have 
compensated Mr C £119.56, as this was a fee RCI were legally able to charge and enforce. 
And I think this offer of compensation is a fair one to recognise the inconvenience Mr C has 
suffered. So, I dont think RCI need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C hoped for. And I recognise that he didnt receive the 
£119.56 as a compensatory offer he could spend himself. But Mr C did receive a financial 
benefit from this offer, as he didnt have to pay it. And I hope this decision explains why I 
think this offer was a fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Right Choice 
Insurance Brokers Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman