DRN-3371890
The complaint
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc increased her overdraft facility without her 
permission.
What happened
Miss C says HSBC increased her overdraft facility without any request from her and then 
later reduced it when she had used it. She says that was unfair and meant her account was 
overdrawn. Miss C would like HSBC to accept liability for the mistake and reduce the 
balance she owes. She would also like HSBC to consider the impact this had on her credit 
file and would like a repayment plan agreed. 
HSBC says Miss C contacted it on 20 November 2019 and said she had an issue with her 
wages. It says it agreed a temporary overdraft limit increase from £500 to £1,870 for a month 
until 20 December 2019 when Miss C said she would receive a payment. HSBC says it 
correctly withdrew the temporary increase and charged interest and fees in line with account 
terms and conditions. It says it has sent Miss C a number of letters about providing support 
to her but without response.
Miss C brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought HSBC had increased the overdraft facility at Miss Cs request to help 
her and thought it was entitled to remove it. The investigator thought HSBC entitled to add 
account charges and interest. And that HSBC had offered to try and help Miss C.
Miss C doesnt accept that view and maintains she didnt sign an agreement or agree to the 
increase to the overdraft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at HSBCs records and can see a note has been created on Miss Cs 
account on 20 November 2019. That note says Miss C had a payroll error and received less 
pay than she was expecting and so the overdraft facility was increased to just under £2,000. 
I cant see any reason why HSBC would add that note to Miss Cs account or increase her 
overdraft until 20 December 2019 unless Miss C had asked for the increase and had told 
HSBC of the wages issue.
I can also see that Miss C on 12 December 2019 emailed HSBC and told it that she 
expected a payment of £1,000 on 20 December 2019 which is the same day HSBC 
increased the overdraft to. So, Im satisfied that Miss C made contact with HSBC and told 
her about the wages issue and that it agreed a temporary overdraft facility with her to try and 
help her. It follows that Im satisfied that Miss C knew the increase had taken place and I 
dont think HSBC simply increased Miss Cs overdraft facility without her knowledge or 
without any reason.
I appreciate Miss C says there was no formal signed agreement, but I dont think there 
needed to be as it clear that an overdraft facility increase took place and for a specific 
reason, namely, to cover the wages issue. I dont think HSBC made a mistake by removing 
the facility and have made clear I think it was trying to help Miss C.
I can see from HSBCs records that it sent Miss C a number of letters about her account and 
provided her with details of its specialist team that could help her as well as details of other 
debt help organisations. I cant see any record of Miss C making contact with HSBC about 
the account of by providing details of her finances. I appreciate this complaint is not about 
the lack of help provided by HSBC, but I make clear that I think HSBC has acted positively 
and sympathetically in trying to help Miss C. If Miss C wishes to agree a repayment plan with 
HSBC, then she will need to discuss that with its specialist team.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC fairly tried to help Miss C by increasing her overdraft facility 
for a month. I find that Miss C would have known about that and am satisfied that she told 
HSBC about her wages issue. It follows that I cant fairly order HSBC reduce Miss Cs 
overdraft balance as she would like in circumstances where Miss C has clearly had the 
benefit of that money. And where I can see that interest and charges were applied in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman