DRN-3835694
The complaint
Mr T complained because Monzo Bank Limited:-
- refused to refund him for transactions which he said he didnt authorise, and
- closed his account.
What happened
Mr T said that on 17 August 2022, he came out of a concert and his wallet was stolen in the 
crowds. It contained his Monzo card and other bank cards. Mr T received got notifications 
that money was being taken out of his accounts, and he said he also realised his SIM card 
had been taken out of his phone and the empty phone had been returned to him.
The next day, Mr T contacted Monzo. He had a joint account as well as an individual 
account, but this decision is about his individual account. On his individual account, there 
had been an approved overdraft request for £2,000 on 17 August, which Mr T said he hadnt 
applied for. There had then been multiple debits, totalling £1,904.70, which Mr T said he 
hadnt authorised. Mr T said he thought someone must have seen his PIN when he was 
taking out a genuine cash withdrawal.
Monzo investigated, but it didnt uphold Mr Ts claim. On 29 August, Monzo told Mr T by chat 
that it couldnt treat this as fraudulent. It said this was based on the data Monzo had 
available, and the timeline of transactions suggested it hadnt been possible for these 
transactions to have been authorised by anyone else. Monzo also told Mr T that it was 
closing his account the following day. It said it would be in touch to discuss repayment 
options for the outstanding balance on the account.
Mr T complained, but in Monzos final response letter on 7 September, it confirmed what its 
specialist fraud team had said, and also confirmed that Mr Ts account had been closed.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that unlike the other banks to 
whom hed reported fraud the same day, Monzo had decided there hadnt been a fraud and 
couldnt refund him. He said hed never applied for an overdraft. And he wasnt happy 
because Monzo had closed his account immediately without an explanation. He said hed 
had direct debits due to come out, which hed had to sort out with utility and insurance 
providers. He said Monzos treatment of him was a disgrace, and he wanted an 
acknowledgement that there had been fraud, and a refund of the money.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said he found it unlikely that someone 
could have stolen Mr Ts phone and wallet, removed the SIM and then returned the phone 
without being detected. The investigator also pointed out that six of the payments had been 
made using Mr Ts PIN. And he explained why the overdraft request cold only have come 
from Mr Ts phone. The investigator also pointed out that the computer evidence had shown 
that the fraud form which Mr T sent to Monzo had been sent from a different IP address 
location to the one which Mr T had said hed sent it from. So the investigator thought that 
both the overdraft and payments were authorised by Mr T.
Mr T didnt agree. He said it made no sense that hed have decided after coming out of a 
concert, to take out an overdraft and withdraw thousands of pounds. He said hed been a 
victim of targeted crime, in the middle of a cost of living crisis. He said he hadnt given out 
his PIN to random passers-by and maybe theyd seen him using it beforehand, but he had 
no idea. Mr T asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in August 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Monzo) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Monzo has provided the technical 
evidence which shows that the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence. So Ive gone on to consider whether I think its more likely than not that 
Mr T authorised the disputed payments.
 
Who authorised the disputed transactions?
I dont find it credible that any third party fraudster would have stolen Mr Ts phone, removed 
the SIM from inside, and then returned the phone to him without his knowledge. 
And Monzo told our investigator that if this had genuinely happened, and someone had tried 
to use the SIM in a different phone, theyd have had to provide video verification to add a 
new device. The device ID would also have been different from whats on the computer 
records.
When asked about his PIN, Mr T said that he hadnt disclosed it to anyone, but thought 
someone might have seen him enter his PIN when withdrawing cash that evening. If that 
was the case, Mr T couldnt have shielded his PIN from sight. And its unlikely that any third 
party fraudster would have been able to guess the correct PIN because there are 10,000 
possible combinations of a four-digit PIN.
In view of these factors, I consider its most likely that it was Mr T who authorised the 
overdraft himself, and then spent up to that limit using the transactions which he then 
disputed. So I dont require Monzo to refund Mr T.
Account closure
In Monzos final response letter, it told Mr T that it had the power to close his account in line 
with the terms and conditions of his account. Mr T would have signed up to these when he 
opened the account, and Ive checked what they say.
The terms and conditions say that Mr T could close the account at any time. They also say 
that Monzo could close Mr Ts account by giving him at least two months notice. They go on to set out seven situations where Monzo could close Mr Ts account immediately. Having 
looked at these, I consider that Monzo acted within the terms and conditions of the account 
when it closed his account immediately. So I find that Monzo acted fairly and reasonably 
when it closed Mr Ts account, in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman