DRN-4453467
The complaint
Miss J and Mr Ss complaint is about a claim Miss J made on their U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI) legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to UKI include their claims handlers.
What happened
Miss J made a claim on hers and Mr S UKI legal expenses insurance policy for cover to 
pursue a personal injury claim.
Miss J has made several complaints against UKI which have been considered by them in a 
number of final response letters. This specific complaint is about the panel firm they 
instructed ceasing to act for Miss J, UKI offering her an alternative firm of Solicitors to act for 
her from their panel and UKI suggesting she could appoint her own firm of Solicitors.
Our investigator considered Miss Js complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss J doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. This is why.
Miss J is unhappy about the service provided by the panel firm, including a dispute about a 
medical expert and report. Ive considered those complaints separately in a decision I issued 
in October 2023 in which I said that these werent matters I could consider because they 
were referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service over six months after UKI issued their 
final response letters, and there were no circumstances that applied that meant we could 
look at things outside those time limits.   
In this complaint, Miss J wants me to consider the conduct of the panel firm when they 
decided to stop acting for her. But thats not something I can determine either. The panel 
firms conduct falls outside my remit because they are independent professionals with their 
own codes of conduct and regulator. If Miss J remains unhappy with their decision to stop 
acting for her, then the recourse open to her is to raise this with them directly or complain to 
the Legal Ombudsman. I understand this is a route shes pursued. I cant however comment 
any further on that.
Where a policyholder is unhappy with the firm of Solicitors appointed by an insurer, and they 
raise this with the insurer, Id expect the insurer to raise this with the panel firm and where 
appropriate, take proactive action. In this case UKI did that. In Miss Js case, both firms of 
appointed by UKI stopped acting for her because they felt there had been a breakdown in 
their relationship. Despite this UKI asked the first panel firm whether theyd represent her 
again when the second panel firm stopped acting for her. They did this but also stopped 
acting for her for similar reasons as before. So, I think UKI did what they could to secure 
Miss J alternative representation when relations broke down with the panel firms. 
Following both firms ceasing to act for her, UKI said that Miss J should find a Solicitor to act 
for her. Given the reasons why both panel firms appointed stopped acting for Miss J, I think 
this was reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate that Miss J has said she had trouble 
finding a Solicitor of her own because of the time limit left to run on her claim, but I dont 
think this is something UKI were responsible for. UKI could have taken the view that Miss J 
was in breach of her policy terms for failing to cooperate with the panel firms because of the 
reasons they cited for ceasing to act for her. That was a legitimate policy term they could 
have relied on to refuse to provide cover at all going forward. Given they didnt do that and 
gave her the option to find her own Solicitor, I think UKI did all they could to assist her in the 
circumstances. 
When reaching my decision, I can assure Miss J Ive taken into account her difficult personal 
circumstances and the impact this has had on her but theres nothing that makes me think 
UKI treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Miss J and Mr S complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman