DRN-2333630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled and 
settled a buildings and contents claim they made on their household insurance policy 
following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S jointly hold a household buildings and contents insurance policy, which is 
underwritten by RSA. In around January 2019 they suffered an escape of water in their 
kitchen. Damage was caused to their laminate kitchen floor, their wall and the carpet and 
sofa in their lounge.
Mr and Mrs S had the benefit of a home care policy with a company, which Ill refer to here 
as B. So, they contacted B in order to request its assistance in locating the leak.
When B attended Mr and Mrs S property they said a leak was found to be coming from 
underneath their kitchen floorboards. Another leak was located outside their property. Mr 
and Mrs S said, while two leaks were identified, they were from the same pipe.
During the trace and access work Mr and Mrs S had to have their kitchen flooring pulled up. 
Their driveway was also dug up because the trace and access investigations were 
commenced outside Mr and Mrs S property in efforts to try and avoid internal damage within 
their home.  
Mr and Mrs S thought they had trace and access cover included within their insurance policy 
with RSA. So, on 11 February 2019, they contacted RSA to report the escape of water. Mr 
and Mrs S asked RSA to cover the cost of replacing the items that were damaged in their 
property by the escape of water. They subsequently also asked RSA to cover the cost theyd 
already incurred in repairing their driveway.
RSA initially informed Mr and Mrs S it would look to cover the driveway repair. But it later 
declined to reimburse them as it said trace and access applied to accidental damage caused 
to drains and pipes. And it said the external leak was due to wear and tear of the water 
supply pipe, which was excluded under the policy terms. 
 
In relation to Mr and Mrs S claim for internal damage, RSA agreed to cover the cost of 
reinstatement works inside their property. It said this was covered under the accidental 
damage clause of their policy because it was due to an escape of water. So, RSA offered Mr 
and Mrs S money towards their laminate flooring and carpet. 
RSA offered Mr and Mrs S two ways of settling their claim for their damaged sofa. It said it 
would issue gift vouchers up to the value of £898 to enable them to purchase a replacement 
sofa from its preferred retailed. Or, in the alternative, it would pay them a cash settlement of 
just over £675 if they preferred. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept RSAs reasons for declining their driveway damage claim and 
thought it had acted unfairly They thought RSA should reimburse them for the costs theyd 
incurred in repairing their driveway and they werent happy theyd initially been told by RSA it 
would look to cover that cost. Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy with the way in which RSA 
proposed to settle their claim for their damaged sofa. So, they complained.
When RSA responded to Mr and Mrs S complaint it didnt uphold their concerns about the 
decisions it had reached on their claims. It maintained that its offer to replace their sofa was 
in line with their policy terms. And it said the damage to their driveway was excluded by their 
policy. So, it wasnt prepared to cover the cost of repairing it. But it did accept that Mr and 
Mrs S had been incorrectly advised about the status of their driveway claim at the outset of 
their claim. So, it paid them £175 in compensation to recognise that. It also acknowledged 
there had been delays in dealing with Mr and Mrs S complaint and paid them a further £75 
compensation. 
Being dissatisfied with how RSA had dealt with their complaint, Mr and Mrs S referred it 
complaint to our service. An investigator looked into what had happened, but they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. Overall, they thought RSA had acted fairly and didnt 
need to take any further action. But Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view of 
their complaint. So, they asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs S and RSA for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. Ive read and considered all the information provided and, if I havent 
specifically referred to a point that Mr and Mrs S or RSA have made it isnt because I havent 
considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach 
that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs S experienced here. I know they feel very 
strongly about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons why theyve brought their complaint 
to our service. But, while I sympathise with them, the issue that I must determine is whether I 
think RSA acted fairly and reasonably in how it decided to settle their claim. As there are a 
number of parts to Mr and Mrs S complaint, Ill focus on each issue separately.
Did RSA act fairly in recording two separate claims?
Mr and Mrs S have complained that RSA dealt with their claim for external and internal 
property damage separately. They say their claims should be dealt with as one because the 
damage was to the same pipe. 
I appreciate why Mr and Mr S may hold the view they do on this issue. But, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, the leaks Mr and Mrs S experienced occurred in two separate areas of 
the pipework. And the cause of the damage with each leak was different. There isnt enough 
to show the leaks happened simultaneously. And I therefore think RSA acted reasonably in 
treating each claim as separate events. It follows that I cant fairly uphold this part of Mr and 
Mrs S complaint.
Mr and Mrs S also raised concerns regarding how RSA recorded the claims they made on its 
database. I can see that initially it recorded two separate claims initially, which Mr and Mrs S 
thought might cause them financial detriment when obtaining renewal quotes. However, I 
understand this has now been remedied. So, insurers will only see one claim recorded. I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs S suffered any financial loss or that their renewal has been impacted as a result of what happened. Im therefore not going to ask RSA to 
award any compensation.
Was the settlement offer for Mr and Mrs S sofa reasonable?
I understand that RSA offered Mr and Mrs S two ways of settling their claim for their 
damaged sofa. It said it would provide them a voucher up to the value of £898 to enable 
them to purchase a replacement sofa from its preferred retailer. In the alternative, it said it 
would pay them a cash settlement of just over £675 if they preferred. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with RSAs proposal. But their policy, in common 
with many home insurance policies, allows RSA to settle their claim for a replacement sofa 
in a number of ways. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S insurance policy allow RSA to either replace an 
item or make a money payment instead. They explain in clear and intelligible language that 
RSA will pay for the cost of reinstating, repairing or replacing your buildings and/or contents 
which are covered by this policy (including any required re-decoration that forms part of a 
valid claim). We will decide whether to reinstate, repair or replace or pay you the cash value. 
All replaced items will be on a new for old basis. Where we have offered to repair or replace 
any item and you instead request for us to pay a cash value, we will not pay you more than 
the amount it would have cost us to repair or replace the item
It appears that Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the choice of furniture provider RSA used to 
assist it here. But RSA is entitled to make a business decision about which retailer it wishes 
to use and thats not a decision our service will interfere with. And Ive seen nothing to 
demonstrate that RSA made an error in assessing what it would cost Mr and Mrs S to 
replace their sofa using its preferred retailer. 
Had Mr and Mrs S accepted the vouchers they were offered, RSA would have met its 
obligation to them under this policy. However, RSA has also offered to settle Mr and Mrs S 
claim for their sofa via a cash settlement  as the policy terms allow.
Its clear Mr and Mrs S disagree with the amount theyve been offered. But, in line with the 
terms of their policy, if RSA offers them a cash settlement its entitled to deduct from that 
sum any discounts obtainable. This means it can limit its cash settlement to the cost it would 
incur if it were to use its preferred furniture retailer. And this can be less that the cost Mr and 
Mrs S would incur if they bought a replacement sofa directly from the retailer RSA has an 
arrangement with. I say this because it isnt unusual for insurers to have an arrangement 
with a preferred supplier that can offer it discounts. 
While I appreciate that RSAs cash settlement offer is frustrating for Mr and Mrs S, Im 
satisfied its offered to settle their claim for their damaged sofa in line with the terms of their 
insurance policy. And Im satisfied that, in giving Mr and Mrs S two distinct options of settling 
their claim, RSA was acting fairly. I therefore cant say its done anything wrong in the 
approach its taken here. 
Did RSA act fairly in repudiating Mr and Mrs S damaged driveway claim?
Mr and Mrs S have argued that their driveway claim should be met by RSA because damage 
was incurred in digging up the external pipe and this formed part of the investigative work 
that led to the internal leak being identified.
 
Ive seen evidence that demonstrates Mr and Mrs S paid £2400 to reinstate their driveway to 
its pre-loss state. So, I can understand why theyd want RSA to reimburse that expense. But for me to tell RSA to do this Id have to be satisfied that the damage caused is covered 
under the terms of Mr and Mrs S insurance policy.
RSA has explained that the reason it repudiated Mr and Mrs S driveway claim is because 
the leak was found to be coming from their water supply pipe. And it said this was a drainage 
issue because the driveway and after the stopcock in the house is classified as a drainage 
issue. 
The trace and access section of Mr and Mrs S policy states RSA covers the costs a 
policyholder will have to pay to find where water or oil is leaking from, including the cost of 
removing and replacing any part of the walls, floors, roof or ceiling. However, costs a 
policyholder incurs to locate an escape of water if the water or heating installation is outside 
or in a standalone outbuilding arent covered. 
Drainage issues arent covered by the trace and access part of Mr and Mrs S policy. And a 
leak that has been caused gradually over a period of time  as was the case here  is also 
excluded. Mr and Mrs S policy clearly explains that damage that happens gradually or due 
to wear and tear is excluded, which is in common with most home insurance policies 
because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen  and something wearing out or 
requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. I cant fairly ask RSA to cover something that its 
shown our service isnt covered.
I think its also important to mention that when Mr and Mrs S asked RSA to cover the cost of 
their driveway repair, a company had already been instructed to repair it. This incurred 
significant expense and RSA said if it had been aware Mr and Mrs S were intending to 
excavate their driveway it would have appointed an agent to use non-invasive equipment to 
identify why there was an issue with the water supply pipe.
So, even if I had reached a decision that RSA should honour the driveway claim I would 
have, most likely, found that Mr and Mrs S could have taken more steps to mitigate their 
loss. I say this because, if RSA had been aware at the outset that there was an issue with 
the water supply pipe, the use of non-invasive methods of investigation would have, most 
likely, avoided Mr and Mrs S driveway being dug up to the extent it was. And this would 
have reduced any costs Mr and Mrs S might have then incurred in restoring their driveway to 
its pre-loss state.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied RSA correctly declined their driveway claim.
Was the compensation RSA paid Mr and Mrs S after it incorrectly informed them it was 
intending to cover their claim for damage to their driveway fair?
As Ive already mentioned, when Mr and Mrs S asked RSA to cover the cost of their 
driveway repair, theyd already instructed a company to repair it. So, I have to bear in mind 
that their decision to proceed with their driveway repairs wasnt based on RSA informing 
them it was intending to cover their claim. That said, Im satisfied that, in RSA informing Mr 
and Mrs S it would look to cover their driveway claim, their expectations were unfairly raised. 
And I think its right that RSA wanted to recognise its error here by awarding compensation.
RSA paid Mr and Mrs S £175 to reflect the miscommunication they experienced about the 
status of their driveway claim. It also paid them a further £75 in compensation to 
acknowledge the delays theyd encountered in raising their concerns about how their claim 
had been handled.As Mr and Mrs S appear to be unhappy with the compensation RSA paid them Ive thought 
carefully about whether that amount was fair and reasonable. And, in thinking about this, Ive 
considered things from both sides.
We arent here to punish businesses and, having thought very carefully about the impact 
RSAs errors would have had on Mr and Mrs S, Im persuaded that an overall compensatory 
sum of £250 fairly reflects the overall trouble and upset they would have been caused. This 
sum is consistent with awards our service has made in similar circumstances and its what I 
would have suggested had no offer been made. So, I wont be requiring RSA to increase the 
amount its already offered. 
I know that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, but theres nothing to 
persuade me that RSA has treated them unfairly or unreasonably. I therefore wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking RSA to do anything further.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr and Mrs S dispute with RSA 
informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman