DRN-4249437
The complaint
This complaint is about the service Mr M received from Barclays Bank UK PLC about his 
credit card.
What happened
Mr M told us he applied for a basic credit card with Barclays. He thought his application had 
been refused. But then he got a text message to say a credit card had been sent to him. He 
got a credit limit of £50. Mr Ms card then stopped working. He called Barclays to find out 
what was happening. Barclays said it had stopped his card because he hadnt told it about 
his finances.
This didnt sound right to Mr M. He said he had linked his card to his Barclays bank account. 
That means Barclays would have known about his finances. He told us he wasnt working 
and all his money came from state benefits. He said he told Barclays he wasnt working in 
his application. And it should have been obvious to Barclays he wasnt working because of 
the amount of benefits he was getting.
Mr M says he could still see the account on his online banking. It showed he had £50 
available to spend. Mr M said Barclays had spoken to him badly when he called up to find 
out what was happening with the card. It offered to pay him £25 because of this.
Mr M is autistic and has ADHD. He told us he can get a bit confused when reading things. 
He said he doesnt understand things as well as other people do. He also told us he has 
trouble processing information. Mr M thinks Barclays discriminated against him because of 
his disability.
Barclays sent a final response letter to Mr M. Barclays said it had contacted Mr M four times 
to ask him to verify or confirm his income. Barclays said that it was a responsible lender, so 
it had to confirm his income before it could increase his credit limit.
Our investigator looked at all of the information Mr M and Barclays had given us. She didnt 
think Barclays had made a mistake. She said that Barclays had asked Mr M to confirm his 
income four times, but he hadnt. So it was fair to cancel the card. She said if he wasnt sure 
about anything, Mr M could have called the bank for more information. Our investigator also 
said that she thought £25 was fair after Mr M had been upset by Barclays on the phone.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. So, the complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I asked Barclays for some more information. Barclays told us:
It asked Mr M for information about his income because his bank statements didnt 
show whether he was getting any money from work;
Mr Ms bank statements seemed to show all his monthly money from state benefits. 
Mr M wouldnt have been able to get a credit card if all his money came from 
benefits;
Mr M wasnt asked in advance whether he had any additional communication needs. 
But he could have called Barclays if he needed extra support. There was also an 
accessibility link on the Barclays website. Barclays thought Mr M would have been 
able to see this when he was making his application.
I thought Barclays needed to do more to put things right for Mr M. So I sent a provisional 
decision to Mr M and Barclays. In that decision, I told Mr M and Barclays what I thought the 
outcome of the complaint should be. In that decision, I said: 
Mr M told us he thought his application for a credit card had been refused. But then 
he got a text message to say his card was on the way. Barclays had given him a 
temporary credit limit of £50. I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays had 
told Mr M that the credit limit was temporary.
Barclays says it then sent four emails to Mr M. The first one looks like it was sent on 
26 April 2022. The title of the email was You could unlock a higher credit limit. The 
email then says that Mr M had to check what he needed to upload. The email then 
directed him to another section further down the message. Scrolling further down, I 
can see Barclays wanted Mr M to download or photograph either some of his bank 
statements or payslips.
Looking at the email, it gives the impression to me that Mr M would only need to 
upload the extra information if he wanted a bigger credit limit. And the information in 
Barclays final response letter seems to say that as well. I can see that the email sent 
to Mr M on 26 April 2022 does say further down that Barclays needed to verify Mr 
Ms income or it would close his account. I dont think that would have been 
immediately clear to Mr M, especially as the paragraph above directed him past that 
section to check what he needed to upload. In any event, Mr M says he thought he 
didnt need to upload his bank statements because he already banked with Barclays 
and that it already knew what his income was.
Two further similar emails were sent to Mr M a bit later on. The heading for these 
messages was it only takes a few minutes and then said Mr M only had a particular 
number of days to upload his income and then he could unlock a higher credit limit. 
Again, I think these emails are confusing. They suggest Mr M only needed to upload 
his income details if he wanted a higher credit limit. Its understandable that Mr M 
thought that. And as I said above, Mr M says he didnt think he needed to upload his 
statements because Barclays already had access to them.
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) regulates financial businesses. The FCA 
has said that financial businesses, like Barclays, have to pay due regard to the 
information needs of its customers. The FCA also says that Barclays needs to 
communicate with its customers in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. In 
other words, the FCA says Barclays needs to think about how best to communicate 
with Mr M. And it needs to be clear when it does get in touch with him. This is all set 
out in the FCAs Principles for Businesses.
Looking at the messages Barclays sent to Mr M, I dont think the emails were clear. 
The headline and some of the text says he needs to take action if he wants a higher 
credit limit. But other less prominent  parts of the text say that Barclays will close 
the account if Mr M doesnt do what it asked.I can also see why Mr M would have thought he didnt have to tell Barclays about his 
income. I say this because this because Barclays asked him to upload bank 
statements. As Mr M says, Barclays was already his bank and it had access to his 
financial information. Barclays says the information it had from Mr Ms current 
account wasnt enough. Thats because Barclays says he wouldnt have been eligible 
for a credit card at all because his income came from his state benefits. What it 
actually wanted was evidence that Mr M was working. But in its emails, Barclays 
didnt ask Mr M to confirm his earnings or salary. It asked for evidence of his income. 
And I can see why Mr M could have reasonably thought Barclays already had that 
information because all his benefits were paid into his Barclays current account.
Mr M says he told Barclays during the application process that he was on benefits. 
And I can see that he appears to have said he was a home maker when he applied 
for the card.
Barclays also asked Mr M for details of his employer and I can see that section was 
left blank. Barclays says that to get a credit card Mr M had to be working and earning 
at least £3,000 a year from work. At no point in the application process has Mr M 
appeared to say he was working. So, it is not clear to me how his application was 
able to progress to the point a card was issued.
I think theres a risk this wasnt fair. Barclays was prepared to issue a card to Mr M 
based on the amount of his income  only to withdraw it because of the source of his 
income. Mr Ms income comes from benefits in part because of his disability. It might 
not be fair to say that a person with income from disability benefits cant get a card 
when someone with the same income from work can. But Mr Ms complaint is about 
how Barclays communicated with him. And he hasnt said he still wants the card now. 
So I havent thought about this in any more detail.
Overall, it seems to me that the process Barclays adopted in Mr Ms case was very 
confusing. At this time, I cant say Barclays information was clear and not 
misleading.
The FCA says Barclays also has to think about Mr Ms information needs. But it 
doesnt look as though Barclays checked with Mr M whether he had any additional 
needs when he made his application. Barclays said that when Mr M was applying for 
his credit card, there was a section on the website which said contact us if youre 
having difficulties understanding. The same part of the website also said that 
Barclays could offer support to people with mental or physical health conditions or 
learning disabilities and a phone number was set out for customers to call if they 
needed support.
But I think the information provided here put the responsibility on customers with 
difficulties to seek support. It wasnt part of the application process; it was a separate 
section on the website. I cant see how Barclays could have had due regard to Mr 
Ms information needs if it didnt take any positive steps to find out what those needs 
were.
Ive looked at the FCAs Guidance for Firms on the Treatment of Vulnerable 
Customers. The FCA says that financial businesses, like Barclays, need to set their 
systems up in a way that supports and enables vulnerable customers to 
communicate their needs. The FCA says Barclays should be proactive in offering that 
support  or take positive steps to help. The FCA also says that Barclays should find 
out about a customers needs whichever way they get in contact. So, for example, if a customer contacts it online, it could offer a chatbot or text box to allow a customer 
to share information about their needs.
None of that appears to have been offered to Mr M when he applied for his credit 
card. So when Barclays sent its emails out to Mr M requiring further action from him, 
it did not know that he might have some trouble understanding what it wanted him to 
do. Thats because it hadnt really taken steps to find out. And when he did speak to 
Barclays on the phone, things didnt go well and Barclays ended up paying Mr M £25 
because of that. If it had known he had some trouble understanding and processing 
things, it could have handled that call differently.
Mr M told us he thought Barclays had breached the Equality Act 2010. It is not for 
this service to say whether Barclays did this  it is for a court to decide whether Mr M 
has been discriminated against. But I have thought about what the Equality Act 2010 
says to help me decide what a fair outcome should be in Mr Ms complaint.
Barclays didnt know it might need to offer Mr M a reasonable adjustment  but that 
was because, as Ive said, it didnt take steps to find out. In any case, the Equality 
Act 2010 also says there is an anticipatory duty on Barclays. What I mean by that is 
that Barclays has to think about how its processes may affect people who have a 
disability. It seems to me the process of allowing a temporary credit limit and 
requiring verification of income after the card has been provided could well be 
confusing for people in Mr Ms position, especially as the emails it sent also werent 
clear. And I think that Barclays should have anticipated the trouble this might cause.
Putting this all together then, I think the process Barclays adopted in this case was 
confusing for Mr M when thinking about his additional needs. I also think it should 
have been reasonably clear to Barclays that the process it used could have been 
confusing and difficult to follow for customers like Mr M. And I think that Barclays 
should have checked with Mr M whether he had any additional needs during the 
application process.
I think Mr M has lost out because of all this. He told our investigator he couldnt 
understand what had happened and why his account was closed. It looks like this 
has caused Mr M quite a bit of upset. I think its fair for Barclays to pay £500 to Mr M 
to put that right.
Mr M told us he agreed with what I said in the provisional decision. 
Barclays did not agree with what I said in the provisional decision. It said: 
It had sent Mr M an email when the account was opened on 24 April 2022. That 
email said his credit limit was temporary. It also said his credit limit could go up once 
hed provided proof of his income. Barclays didnt think its later emails would have 
been confusing because Mr M had been sent this first email. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to ask every person who applies for a credit card if they 
have any difficulties with their mental health. And Mr M would have been prompted to 
contact Barclays if he needed support. 
It wouldnt have been possible for Mr M to say he was on benefits as part of the 
application process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still think Barclays needs to put things right for Mr M. Ill explain why what Barclays said 
hasnt changed my mind.
Ive looked at the email Barclays says it sent to Mr M on 24 April 2022. Its not clear whether 
Mr M got this email. I say this because Mr M said he thought his card application had been 
refused until a card arrived in the post. 
Even if he got this email, I still think its confusing. I say this because Barclays says Mr M 
could get a provisional credit limit and that limit could go up if he gave Barclays information 
about his income. But then, I think a provisional credit limit of £50 had already been offered 
to Mr M. 
The email said Barclays might close the account if Mr M didnt verify his income. But looking 
at the email, it reads as though Barclays was only thinking about whether to give Mr M a 
credit card, when it had already issued a card with a provisional limit at that stage.  
Barclays said it could agree some of its later correspondence to Mr M had been confusing. 
But it didnt think that could be the case if Mr M had read the email of 24 April 2022. I dont 
think its fair for Barclays to send confusing emails to its customers and then expect them to 
check old messages to work out what it means. I dont think that would be clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Barclays said Mr M would have been directed to call it for support if he needed help. It also 
said that it couldnt ask everyone who applied for a card if they had difficulties with their 
mental health. But thats not what I suggested in my provisional decision. What I said was 
that the FCA expects Barclays to be proactive in helping its customers tell it about their 
needs. I dont think expecting Mr M to call for support means Barclays was proactive here. 
As well as that, I said Barclays had an anticipatory duty under the Equality Act 2010. In other 
words, Barclays has to think about how its processes affect all its customers. I still think 
thats relevant law. And I think Barclays ought to have understood that its process and the 
emails it sent were confusing, which might have a particular impact on neurodiverse 
customers. But in any case Ive focused specifically on Mr Ms complaint and whether I think 
he was treated fairly and reasonably in his particular circumstances. I dont think he was.
Barclays told us it wasnt possible for Mr M to have said he was on benefits as part of the 
application process. I find that surprising given it was an important part of Barclays lending 
criteria. It didnt agree with me saying it wasnt clear why a card had been issued. I said this 
because Barclays had told us Mr Ms income needed to be from employment. And Mr M had 
not said he was working. 
I accept that it is fair for Barclays to check Mr Ms income. The issue here is the process it 
followed wasnt clear or straightforward. Barclays didnt ask Mr M the questions it needed to 
ask to have decided whether he was eligible for the card, it issued the card and credit limit 
before carrying out its checks, and it didnt clearly explain to Mr M what it was doing or why. 
This caused considerable confusion and upset to Mr M. 
For these reasons, Barclays needs to take action to put things right for Mr M. Putting things right
Barclays needs to pay £500 to Mr M to put things right. It has already paid him £25, so it 
needs to increase this by £475  which makes £500 in total. 
My final decision
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman