DRN-1991658
The complaint
This complaints about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1996. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So, in my 
decision Ill just refer to AXA as the PPI seller. Mr L says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They said that the way in which the store 
card application form was completed meant there was doubt as to whether Mr L actively selected 
PPI at the time. 
AXA didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Having done so, I consider that the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I can see from the copy store card application form that there was a section for Mr L to tick if he 
wanted PPI. It could be argued that theres a tick to indicate he wanted PPI.
While, ordinarily, that might lead me to think Mr L actively chose to take out PPI with his store card, 
I note how other sections on the form were crossed out by hand  no doubt by the seller. Looking 
at the form closely, I think its possible that the mark in the section for PPI isnt a tick at all but is in 
fact to denote that the entire sections been crossed out, in the same way that other sections on 
the form were.
In my view, both scenarios are possible. But the point is that, given there was so much doubt about 
Mr Ls intentions regarding PPI, AXA ought to have confirmed with him whether he wanted the 
cover. I cant see that AXA did that.
Ive thought carefully about what AXAs said, including about Mr L having the option to cancel the 
PPI after the event if he didnt want it. But I cant say for sure that Mr L was aware it had been 
added or that hed have thought to check once the sale had taken place.
Taking everything into account, I find that Mr Ls lost out because of how AXA sold him the 
PPI. That being the case, I believe it should put things right for him as explained below.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr L in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. AXA should find out how much Mr L would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr L owed when he closed his 
account and what hed have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr L would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr L would have owed each month without PPI  Mr L 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr L paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr L would 
have owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mr L what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things 
right for Mr L as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman