DRN-3630002
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around December 2017, Mr and Mrs M were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs M decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed. (In November 2019 Mr and Mrs M paid 
a lump sum of £6,000 to reduce their loan balance.)
In September 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs M to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding within the loan term;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced once or twice during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500 each 
time).
The CMC added that P had failed to mention that the system would deteriorate over time.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. It noted that P had used the wrong rate of increase for energy prices when 
calculating the estimated future energy savings (6.8%, instead of 6.61%), and also the 
wrong retail price index, but when these were offset against each other, they almost 
cancelled out.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Ps quote said that the system would take 17 years to pay for the loan, which was 
two years longer than the loan term. It was not credible to suppose that anyone 
would willingly purchase the system when they would be out of pocket for so long. 
That clear implication was that the salesman must have misrepresented the product 
or else Mr and Mrs M would not have bought it.
In law it is not a defence to an action for misrepresentation to show that the true facts 
could have been discovered, so if the quote contradicted anything the salesman had 
said then this was irrelevant.
The only direct evidence of what was said at the sales meeting was the testimony of 
Mr and Mrs M, and so their evidence should be preferred to Ps.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs M could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs M and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that any commission was paid, and I have seen no 
evidence to the contrary, so I do not accept that it was.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Ms testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs M, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ms version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs M have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ms recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs M could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs M could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £167.87, which results in an average monthly income of about 
£14. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £95.41. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs M were told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs M could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings are £304.15 and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs M, the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £676.02. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £95.41. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £94.72, but the difference  69p  is too small to matter 
very much.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total return from 
the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and 
the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the first nine years 
of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money to cover the 
loan payments until year ten. (It is actually one year less than that if the correct monthly loan 
payment figure is used.)
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs M could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr and Mrs M werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan 
repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ms version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs M that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 69p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr and Mrs M, so 
Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to their attention. On balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs M were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take 11 years for the 
overall benefits that Mr and Mrs M could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
I think the 11-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This too shows that during year 11 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs M could 
expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,029.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £17,150, 
would be reached early in year 17.
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 25 at 91.2%. So Im satisfied that the quote did take into account 
that the panels would deteriorate over time, and that this would have been factored into the 
table, and into the quote generally. Im also satisfied that the quote made this clear to Mr and 
Mrs M.

As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs M that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 11 years, and for the loan in a little over 16 years, as supported by the graph 
and the table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 162 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs M.
Performance: energy generation
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,604 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ms FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 2,019 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at 
the point of sale, so I agree that the system is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2021, and so I do 
not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr and Mrs M were told that the system 
was supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer 
was that the quote had made it clear all along that this would not be the case. Shawbrook 
didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as 
much energy as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. Then, if Mr and Mrs M are still not satisfied, they may 
bring a new complaint to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to 
deal with that issue now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr and Mrs Ms original section 75 claim did include a complaint to 
the effect that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the 
system had therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the 
estimated financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to 
generate as much energy as estimated.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable in principle. As I noted 
earlier, P used the wrong rates for both of these, but the two errors mostly cancel each other 
out.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs M havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs M could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs M entered into the 
contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr and Mrs M that the system 
would require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did not tell them during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, 
but that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs M 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman