DRN-3182296
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly blocked her bank account for several 
years. Mrs C says the block has made it difficult for her to obtain credit and other bank 
accounts. So, she wants Lloyds to pay her compensation.
What happened
Mrs C had a current account with Lloyds. In July 2014, Mrs C says she was a victim of a 
scam after she sold a designer handbag for just under £9,000 and was paid by someone 
depositing a fraudulent cheque into her account. Following this Lloyds blocked Mrs Cs 
account and asked her to provide information regarding the payment and sale of the 
handbag.
Im aware that Mrs C has also raised a complaint regarding the fraud. Another Ombudsman 
has issued a final decision on this matter in August 2019. So, I wont be considering this any 
further. This decision will address Mrs Cs complaint about Lloyds blocking her account.
On 30 July 2014, Mrs C visited a branch regarding the block to her account. She explained 
shed done nothing wrong and had been the victim of a scam. Lloyds explained it had 
concerns about the cheque that had been paid into Mrs Cs account and asked her to 
provide evidence around the sale of the handbag such as a copy of the advert shed used to 
sell the handbag, communications between Mrs C and the buyer, and was price was agreed 
for the sale. It said if the information demonstrated the funds had been paid into Mrs Cs 
account as a result of this sale, it should be able to remove the block from the account. 
Mrs C told Lloyds shed sent the invoice for the bag she sold to the buyer as part of the sale. 
She provided the bank with an invoice for another designer bag she had along with a 
photograph of this bag to show that it wasnt unusual for her to have hight value handbags. 
But she didnt provide the information the bank requested. So, Lloyds didnt remove the 
block from the account. At the time the balance of the account was just over £50.
On 1 August 2014, Lloyds wrote to Mrs C reiterating what staff had told her during her visit to 
branch. The letter explained that the account would remain blocked until Mrs C provided 
evidence to show she was entitled to the money that had been paid into her account for the 
handbag. The letter told Mrs C that shed be able to withdraw her remaining balance on the 
account.  Mrs C didnt provide any further information or collect her balance. To date the 
account is still blocked. 
Mrs C wasnt happy with the banks response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
explained that the restrictions on her account meant shed lost had trouble opening accounts 
and obtaining credit since Lloyds had blocked her account. She also said that shed missed 
out on business opportunities as her account was linked to a well-known online auction 
website. She also said Lloyds couldnt block her account for so long. So, she said Lloyds 
should pay her compensation. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He thought Lloyds hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked Mrs Cs account. And theyd acted in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. He said Mrs C had been able to access the balance in her account 
since 2014 and said she hadnt provided the information Lloyds had requested. So, he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mrs C disagreed. She said Lloyds are not allowed to block her account for so long and shes 
done nothing wrong.  She says she never received the letter the bank sent to her in August 
2014 and it has magically appeared. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Mrs C has said she is concerned that at least some of the evidence we have received 
from the bank has been fabricated in particular the letter that the bank sent to Mrs C on 1 
August 2014  with the implication being that that is influencing our conclusions 
inappropriately. This is a serious allegation. And I want to assure Mrs C that Ive not seen 
anything to suggest the evidence provided to us by Lloyds isnt legitimate. So, whilst I do 
recognise her concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both 
parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what 
we have done in this complaint. If Mrs C does not agree with our view, she does not have to 
accept it, and if she does not accept this final decision she will be free to continue to pursue 
her concerns by other means should she wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise her on 
how to go about doing that.
As the investigator has already explained, Lloyds has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about certain payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mrs Cs account also permit Lloyds to block an account and ask its customers for 
information about how they are operating their accounts. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Lloyds to block Mrs Cs account. Lloyds has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Lloyds were complying with 
its legal and regulatory obligations. And the terms of the account. So, whilst I can appreciate 
the banks actions caused Mrs C inconvenience, I cant say the bank treated Mrs C unfairly 
when it decided to block her account. 
Ive looked at the information Mrs C gave the bank initially and can understand the banks 
concerns and why it wasnt sufficient to show Mrs C was entitled to the £8,400 that was paid 
into her account in July 2014. I say this because the information Mrs C provided didnt relate 
to the actual handbag Mrs C says she sold. It related to another bag she owned. So, the 
information wasnt relevant. 
Ive not seen any evidence to support Mrs Cs explanation for the cheque being paid into her 
account such as an advert for the bag she said she sold, or any communications between 
her and the buyer, and what had been agreed regarding the sale such as the address where 
the bag was sent, or any details the buyer provided. Given the value of the bag and how 
quickly Mrs C was in contact with Lloyds following the transaction I find it unusual that Mrs C hasnt provided that information to the bank. And I dont think Lloyds were unreasonable in 
requesting more information from Mrs C about the transaction. This helps Lloyds fulfil its 
obligations and ensure it safeguards both itself and its customers from financial crime.
I accept that Mrs Cs account has been blocked since 2014 but whilst Mrs C continued to 
communicate with Lloyds she never provided the information it was seeking. From looking 
at the banks contact notes I can see the bank spoke to Mrs C in branch in late July 2014, 
wrote to her on 1 August 2014 and again in October 2018 setting out clearly what 
information it wanted Mrs C to provide about the transaction and perhaps more importantly 
why. To date Mrs C hasnt complied with Lloyds requests, so her account has remained 
blocked. Based on all the evidence and circumstances of this particular complaint, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to remove the block.
It maybe that Mrs C does have more information she can provide to Lloyds regarding the 
transaction. Id expect Lloyds to consider this is if she does provide anything further to the 
bank. I note too that Mrs Cs balance is still available for collection and has been since she 
raised her complaint with Lloyds in 2014. If Mrs C wants to collect her remaining balance, 
she should contact Lloyds so that payment can be made to her.
In summary, I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs C, but Im satisfied that shes been 
provided with a number of opportunities by Lloyds to demonstrate her entitlement to the 
£8,400 that was paid into her account in July 2014. So, while I appreciate Lloyds actions 
has caused Mrs C inconvenience and upset, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make an 
award of compensation for that since I dont believe Lloyds treated Mrs C unfairly in taking 
the actions it did by not removing the block.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman