DRN-3843278
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited cancelled her joint life assurance 
policy from the outset and refused to pay her claim. Mrs N brings this complaint both as the 
joint policy holder and representative of the estate of Mr N.
What happened
In February 2017, Mr and Mrs N, through a financial advisor, applied and were accepted for 
a joint life assurance policy with Aviva. The policy was taken out to cover their mortgage.
Very sadly, in December 2021, Mr N died of alcohol related conditions. Mrs N later made a 
claim on the policy. 
After reviewing the claim, Aviva said Mr N hadnt accurately answered questions about his 
smoking status and alcohol consumption. It said entries in the medical records showed Mr N 
was smoking within five years of taking out the policy. And that he had a long history of 
excessive alcohol use. It considered these failures in disclosure to be qualifying 
misrepresentations and said that, had Mr N answered correctly, it would not have offered 
cover. Aviva treated the misrepresentations as careless, entitling it to refuse the claim, avoid 
the policy and refund the premiums Mr and Mrs N had paid. 
Mrs N asked for a review and complained, but Aviva maintained its position. So Mrs N 
brought the complaint to us. She disputed the evidence Aviva had relied on and said Mr Ns 
alcohol use increased after the policy was taken out. Mrs N said Avivas decision was based 
on assumption and not fact.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Mr N had made qualifying 
misrepresentations by not accurately answering the smoking and alcohol questions. So she 
didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly in avoiding the policy and refusing Mrs Ns claim. 
Mrs N didnt agree and as she remained unhappy, her complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I was sorry to hear of Mr Ns death and offer Mrs N and her family my condolences. I 
can see theyve faced some very challenging circumstances in recent years. Having 
reviewed all the information carefully, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be 
significant and disappointing news for Mrs N. Ill explain why Ive come to this decision.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva has said Mr N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
applied for the policy. It relied on the answers he gave to questions about his lifestyle, 
submitted by his adviser. 
Mr N had an opportunity to review the answers he gave when he was sent his personal 
details confirmation document (PDC). And its clear he did so, as he corrected some 
information about raised cholesterol, leading to an amendment to the policy. On the PDC, Mr 
Ns smoker status is recorded as:
Non-Smoker  classified as someone who has never smoked, used tobacco or 
nicotine, or who completely stopped more than five years ago.
Ive looked through Mr Ns medical records and I can see that an entry in his GP record 
dated 11 October 2016 suggests this wasnt accurate. The GP notes:
Ex-smoker. Recently given up smoking  around 20 year pack history.
Theres a further entry, dated 29 December 2017, which records: 
Recent ex-smoker  stopped with vaping.
I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on these records to evidence that Mr N had most likely 
smoked within five years of taking out the policy.
When applying for the policy, Mr N is asked, how much alcohol do you drink in an average 
week? He answers, six glasses of wine. 
Aviva has highlighted evidence from October 2019 onwards that suggests Mr N had a long-
term history of excessive alcohol consumption. On 7 October 2019, the GP records:
History: exhausted, strung out, end of my teather, drinking too much and vomiting at 
timesalcohol xs for at least 10 yrs, last few yrs, 1 bottle wine/night, last 6m vodka, 
tried to cut down in July, not successful.
Amongst other things, the GP prescribes Thiamine and Vitamin B compound strong tablets. 
There is other medical evidence that supports a longer-term history of excessive alcohol 
use. I note that in response to our investigators opinion, Mrs N didnt seem to be aware of 
this report. It is in the medical records, which I understand shes received. Nevertheless, for 
completeness, the record relied upon is an Ambulance Notification to Mr Ns GP, dated 1 
October 2021. An ambulance crew attended Mr Ns address, following an emergency call 
from Mrs N asking for help, as Mr N was behaving erratically and had expressed suicidal 
thoughts. The crew record says:pt states he has been an alcoholic for a long time and has hidden it from his wife, 
since lockdown wife has realised that pt was alcohol dependant and since march pt 
has suffered with increase mental health issues...
I also note that, as part of its investigations into Mrs Ns complaint, Aviva sought the opinion 
of its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) regarding the medical evidence. The CMO  himself a GP 
- placed great weight on the GP record as a contemporaneous account of what Mr N had 
said. He also commented on the GP prescribing replacement vitamins immediately, given 
the pattern of drinking and its longevity, saying it was a marker of severe risk and not used 
for light alcohol exposure within recommended limits. He concluded that Mr Ns career 
alcohol exposure dates almost certainly years prior to him taking the policy out when he was 
physically tolerant to [alcohol].   
I can understand why Mrs N challenges Avivas interpretation of the medical records and 
thinks her claim has been declined on assumption, not fact. I accept the reports of what Mr N 
told his GP and the ambulance crew post-date the application for the policy and cant 
confirm a precise date of onset of excessive drinking. But I do think the weight of evidence 
points to a longstanding problem and on balance, I dont think Aviva treated Mrs N unfairly in 
relying on those reports and the opinion of its CMO to evidence Mr Ns failure to accurately 
disclose the extent of his drinking. 
 
Overall, Im satisfied the questions about smoking history and alcohol consumption were 
clear and that Mr N didnt accurately answer those questions. So I think this means Mr N 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Ive looked at the actions Aviva can take in accordance with CIDRA. Im aware our 
investigator referred to the misrepresentation being treated as deliberate or reckless. But 
from what Ive seen, in Avivas complaint summary to the Financial Ombudsman Service, it 
confirmed it treated the misrepresentation as careless. This means it has to show it wouldve 
acted differently, had it been aware of Mr Ns actual smoker status and level of alcohol 
consumption when he applied for the policy. 
Aviva has provided statements from its underwriters and evidence of its underwriting criteria 
to show that it wouldve applied smoker rates for Mr N. But in relation to alcohol 
consumption, Aviva has said it would not have offered cover at all. The misrepresentations 
are therefore qualifying ones under CIDRA.
So Im satisfied Aviva was entitled to avoid Mr and Mrs Ns policy, refunding the premiums in 
accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  the policy never existed, Aviva 
did not have to deal with the claim. Overall, I dont think Aviva has treated Mrs N unfairly, so 
I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and the 
estate of Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman