DRN-3797858
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W contacted Ageas to make a claim when their home was burgled. Ageas 
investigated the claim and then declined it because it said the property was unoccupied at 
the time of the burglary. Mr W and Mrs W complained, but Ageas maintained its decision to 
decline the claim.
When Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said it 
was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim based on the property being unoccupied.
As Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr W and Mrs Ws claim was declined because Ageas said the property was unoccupied at 
the time of the burglary. Ive looked at the policy booklet. This said theft or attempted theft 
wasnt covered when the property was unoccupied. The policy said a property was 
unoccupied when it hadnt been, or wouldnt be, lived in for more than 60 days in a row. 
Mr W and Mrs W left the country and said they expected to return about a month later. 
However, due to government covid restrictions, they didnt return to the UK in those 
timescales. The property was burgled about 70 days after Mr W and Mrs W left their 
property. 
Im aware Mr W and Mrs W have said they couldnt return to the country any earlier due to 
covid restrictions. However, the policy terms and conditions explained what unoccupancy 
meant and when it applied. It wasnt down to the actions of Ageas that Mr W and Mrs W 
didnt return to the UK when they said they expected to do so. The policy explained that 
Ageas should be updated on changes in circumstances, including unoccupancy.
Mr W and Mrs W have also said they thought Ageas was unfair in its decision because a 
neighbour was regularly visiting the property. Looking at the policy booklet, where it 
explained what unoccupancy meant, it said:
Regular visits to the home, or occasional overnight stays would not count as a break in this 
period.
So, I think the policy explained that visits to the property didnt mean it was occupied.
Based on what Ive seen Ageas acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions 
when it declined the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Ageas to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman