DRN-2933382
The complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about a claim being declined on her pet insurance policy with 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. She disagrees that it was a condition that 
had been in existence for more than a year at the time her cat needed treatment. She is also 
unhappy about the exclusions that have been placed on her policy for eye problems and 
cancer.
Miss B is represented by a relative, but for ease I will refer to all comments and submissions 
as being from her.
What happened
Miss B arranged the pet insurance policy for her cat in 2008. The policy changed over time 
and from 2018 it had an annual limit of £10,000, a condition limit of £4,000 and covered a 
condition for 365 days.
Veterinary history
25-06-2016
 Anisocoria, R side smaller pupils. Cannot see any evidence of uveitis. PLR present both 
sides. Unable to look inside mouth, quick glimpse  remaining molar mandibule OK LHS. TA 
 no murmur purring. 
No head tilt, balance OK.
Diagnosis: Anisocoria
ddx infection, uveitis, horners, neuro, neoplasia etc.
Offered investigation to investigate eyes, O opted to monitor for now. Also if chance of 
neoplasia O would rather not know. Discussed first step phenylnephrine test, blood tests etc
14-07-2017
 eyes  left pupil larger, long standing condition
06-07-2018
 general  history: in for vaccines, only concern is left eye: pupil larger than used to be. 
DUDE fine, no v/d/pupd
findings: ... Left eye: colour c
hange in iris (?melanoma), looks like subluxation of lens into posterior chamber.
Discussed eyes and differentials. Discussed risk of glaucoma. Recommend recheck with DG 
in 4 weeks.
01-08-2018
General  history: In for concerns about left eye. Dilated pupil and has been monitoring mild 
stipling of the iris with pigment, but this has become more prominent. Also pupil more fixed 
rather than looking like it opens/closes.
Cornea shiny and clear. Iris stipled with pigment speckling  most dense between arc of 3-9 
oclock. No obvious raised areas of the pigmentation, More diffuse
Ant chamber clear. But there is suspect central lens subluxaton here  arc of hyperreflection 
visible dorsally. Lens has cataracts centrally. Cannot clearly vis retina  too blurry, but 
tapetal reflection strong. Eye open and apparently comfortable. Suspect vitreal prolapse but 
cat really not able to keep still long enough to look that closely!
Diagnosis: left eye- lends subluxation. Iris colour change  left eye esp  ddx melanosis vs 
melanoma.
The cat was operated on and the eye sent for analysis. The histology report set out a 
background explaining why the analysis was being undertaken. It said the eye had been 
enucleated due to lens luxation (first noticed about 5 weeks ago). It also confirmed that 
there was a diffuse iridal melanoma in the eye and there were signs that the growth 
demonstrated a more aggressive clinical behaviour.
Before the operation in 2018 Miss Bs vet applied for pre-authorisation for a claim for the 
costs associated with the operation and treatment her cat needed. Red Sands said there 
was no cover for the condition as there had been clinical signs of it more than 365 days 
before the request for pre-authorisation. 
Miss Bs vet wrote to Red Sands in support of her claim:
I suspect your reason for rejecting the claim was due to [name]s history of anisocoria two 
years previously. There was also mention of anisocoria with the left pupil being enlarged the 
following year. No investigations were done, as there was no other indication of pain or 
problems. The owner thought that it was a quiet anomaly of this cat and did not want to 
pursue investigations at the time. I cannot confirm that the anisocoria was unrelated to a 
later development of the melanoma, but there was no pigmentation seen at those visits. 
I feel that the point at which action was required to address the issue in the left eye was not 
really triggered until [name]s visit in July 2018. The owner acted promptly on veterinary 
advice to have the eye removed. There was no claim made previously on this eye condition. 
I feel that you should honour this claim for [name]s enucleation.
Red Sands responded to Miss Bs complaint. It said the onset date of the condition that 
eventually led to the enucleation Miss B wanted to claim for, should be considered as 
25 June 2016, when her vet recommended the eye problem was investigated. As such, the 
onset date that it had initially used of 2014 was wrong, but even with the later date being 
used, the time limit for the condition had expired before the operation happened. It also said 
the exclusion Miss B was unhappy about being applied to her policy was done in line with its 
underwriting criteria and had been done correctly. In addition, it said that due to the nature of 
the tumour, it would also be adding an exclusion for growths, tumours and cancer and 
resulting conditions. Miss B didnt accept Red Sands response. 
Red Sands reconsidered the further comments, but didnt change its decision about the 
claim. In addition, it expanded on its comments about the addition of the exclusions, but 
remained satisfied it had correctly added the exclusions and attached them at the 
appropriate times. 
Miss B was unhappy with Red Sands decision and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Miss B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman. Her representative made comment on his opinions of the insurance 
industry, its reputation and what a claim handlers role should be. Miss B then went on to highlight the time limit for a condition being covered, and reiterated 
that the condition was first noticed by the vet in July 2018. She questioned why Red Sands 
needed to speculate when the condition start date or onset was. Miss B highlighted various 
excerpts from the veterinary notes in support of the condition first being noted after the date 
in 2016 which Red Sands concluded was the onset date for the purpose of the policy cover. 
Miss B also said that it was a breach of insurance law to add a policy exclusion 
retrospectively without the policyholders agreement, which it didnt have in this case. 
Miss B also said the anisocoria diagnosed in 2016 was not a problem and there was no 
evidence the cat was suffering in any way or that there had been any changes to its eye. 
She considers the decision to monitor the situation was clearly a reasonable decision and 
there is no evidence to suggest otherwise. She stated the possibility of cancer wasnt 
mentioned at that time. The investigators conclusion that had the suggested investigations 
been carried out at that time, it was possible that the later diagnosis would have been made 
earlier, was utter rubbish and pure speculation. 
Miss B went on to say that, in the situation that the investigations had been done, and 
cancer had been diagnosed, there would have been a valid claim in 2016. As such, she 
wondered what damage had been done to the insurer by being asked to pay the claim in 
2018 rather than 2016? Although the vet fees might have been higher in 2018, that would be 
offset by the insurer having the money at its disposal for the two years. So Miss B didnt 
think there would be any damage to the insurer by being asked to pay a claim outside of the 
policy time limit. Miss B also disputes that she should have provided any additional 
information to the insurer at the 2018 renewal, as she could only disclose what she knew. 
She said to exclude any illness or condition which is present, even if the proposer is 
unaware of the illness or condition, is grossly unfair, especially so where a policy is being 
renewed.
Our investigator responded to some of the specific points Miss B had made, but overall, she 
wasnt persuaded to change her view of the complaint.  As agreement couldnt be reached it 
was decided the case should be passed to an ombudsman for consideration. 
Following this, in December 2020, Miss B sent in further comment from her vets. This said:
During a consult, I normally go through the top 3 or 4 hypothetical differential diagnosis of a 
condition with the owners. Within the time constraints of a single consultation, it is impossible 
to go through all the possible differentials. The thoughts can sometimes be added in 
reflection after seeing a patient as well.
Neoplasia was not in my top differentia list given the chronicity of the condition. My 
differential diagnosis was describing a possible lesion in the brain rather than the eye, 
During [NAME]s clinical exam in 2016, there was no evidence of any tumour in the eye. 
Indeed there is a possibility that this anisocoria was caused by a different condition rather 
than this later diagnosed tumour  as his anisocoria has been noted over years before (and 
longer according to your report). I would expect a melanoma in the eye to have progressed a 
lot faster than 2 years.
Miss B also said that in 2016 her vet didnt mention the potential of cancer or neoplasm to 
her. As such, she couldnt have told Red Sands about the possible diagnosis. She said that 
the vets notes saying that if there was a chance the diagnosis was neoplasia, she didnt 
want to know, was clearly not the case as when cancer was suspected in 2018 she acted 
immediately. As she was unaware of the potential diagnosis in 2016, she could not have 
declared it to Red Sands and as such, the application of the exclusion was inappropriate. In addition, Miss B explained that when assessing a patient, a clinician will often brainstorm 
hypothetical causes of clinical presentations. The vets new comment that neoplasia was not 
top of his list was highlighted, as was the new comment that there was no evidence of a 
tumour in the eye. As such, there were no symptoms of cancer present in 2016 and so the 
condition treatment period should not have been deemed to have started in 2016. She also 
noted that the vet notes didnt mention neoplasia or cancer in the 2017 consultation or the 
February 2018 consultation, which would have been the case had there been symptoms in 
2016. She stated that in her opinion the first clear symptom of cancer was the change in iris 
colour, which was noted at the annual health check in July 2018.
The additional comments from Miss Bs vets were passed to Red Sands to see if they 
changed its mind about the claim. It said it didnt. It remained satisfied that at the point the 
vet recommended investigations into the eye problem, which hadnt been suggested before, 
there had to have been a change in the condition and that was likely when it had started. 
On 23 June 2021 I issued a provisional decision setting out my conclusions in relation to this 
complaint and my reasoning. Below is an excerpt. 
Following the investigators view Miss B raised the issue that in 2014 exclusions were added 
to the policy and that previous claims had either not been paid or only a small amount of the 
treatment costs had been covered. Due to this she considered the policy poor value. As this 
was not part of the complaint Miss B made to Red Sands or referred to this service initially, I 
cant comment on these issues. 
Before considering the merits of this complaint, I believe it would be appropriate to comment 
on the type of policy Miss B had with Red Sands. There are different types of pet insurance 
policies and they provide different benefits. The policy Miss B chose when taking out cover 
was one that limited the time any medical condition was covered for. Providing policies with 
limited benefits is not unfair and will often mean that cover can be provided at a lower 
premium.
Miss B has said she thinks the wording of the policy is unfair as it says onset rather than 
something like the date the condition appeared. I have thought about this, but I dont think 
the use of the word onset makes the wording ambiguous. Nor do I think it is a word that 
would be considered technical or jargon and, therefore, difficult for a layperson to 
understand. 
This complaint turns on when the cover period for the condition, which resulted in Miss Bs 
cat needing surgery in 2018, started. Red Sands considers its 2016 when the vet first 
discussed a change in the cats eye condition possibly being due to a tumour and offering to 
investigate it. Miss B believes its when the subsequent changes occurred in 2018.
Miss B has said the vets notes from 2016 arent accurate and the possibility of a tumour 
wasnt discussed with her. When considering a complaint like this one, the starting point will 
be veterinary notes from the relevant times. The value of such documents is that they are 
made at the time, so they should reflect what was said at the relevant time. I accept they 
wont be fool-proof, as its always possible some information was omitted or recorded 
incorrectly. However, they are typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at 
a distance in time, which although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
coloured by hindsight. 
Miss B has said the vets notes about the conversation in 2016 are wrong, in that there 
wasnt a discussion about the potential for the eye changes noticed that year to be a tumour. 
I have considered this submission, but given the very individual comments detailed, I think it 
more likely they are a reflection of the conversation that was had at the time. I note that Miss B said the further investigations offered in 2016 were offered, but not 
advised. Those investigations were in relation to anisocoria [unequal pupil size], not overt 
cancer symptoms. However, the vets notes from the time included comment on what the 
cause of the change in the symptoms could be, which included a tumour. In other words the 
vet suspected that a possible cause of anisocoria was a tumour. The fact that Miss B said 
she would rather not know if the cause was a tumour, would also evidence the vet discussed 
with her that potential diagnosis.  
Red Sands when provided with a copy of the most recent vet report said it didnt change its 
conclusions about the onset of the condition. As such I need to consider whether I think it 
should. 
The vet said in the new report that a tumour was not at the top of his list of possible causes 
of the eye problem in 2016 and that his diagnosis was describing a lesion on the brain, 
rather than in the eye. In addition, the vet rightly points out that the anisocoria had been 
noted over years before, and could have been caused by a different condition. However, the 
notes show the discussions in 2016 were prompted by a change in the pre-existing 
condition. That change resulted in the vet offering to investigate the cause of the change and 
suggest what that cause might be. There was also clearly a discussion about the problem 
with the eye being a tumour, because Miss B was recorded as declining investigations by 
saying she didnt want to know if it was. I am not persuaded the new comments of the vet, 
given they are somewhat contradictory to the contemporaneous evidence, are persuasive. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Miss B, but the vet notes say that the vet 
thought there was the possibility that the recent changes to the eye in 2016 might be caused 
by a tumour. Investigation into that possibility was offered. The same eye showed further 
symptoms two years later and a tumour in the eye was confirmed. That may be a 
coincidence, but I am not persuaded it was and Miss Bs own vet says he couldnt say the 
tumour was unrelated to the changes in the eye in 2016. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Red Sands was unreasonable to start the time limit for the condition in 2016. 
Miss B wondered what damage would be done to an insurer by being asked to pay a claim 
in 2018 rather than 2016. I can understand why Miss B might think there wouldnt be. 
However, insurance policies will be priced based on the risks the insurer is willing to take 
and its perception of the risk linked to any particular policy. It wouldnt be unusual for the 
cost of treating a condition to increase the longer it is left untreated, so there could be harm 
to the business, and it has offered a policy that means such circumstances wont need to be 
paid for. Red Sands has applied the policy terms and conditions to Miss Bs claim, as it is 
entitled to do.
It is not unreasonable for an insurer to place an exclusion on a policy for a diagnosed 
condition from when the policy time limit would have expired. Which is what Red Sands has 
done. That isnt unreasonable, as those conditions couldnt be claimed for under the policy 
again anyway. However, if Miss B makes a claim in future under the policy, and she thinks 
Red Sands has unreasonably been declined because of the application of an exclusion, she 
would have the right to question and challenge that. 
Red Sands confirmed it had received the provisional decision and that it had nothing further 
to add.
Miss B didnt accept my conclusions and said that she suspected I had exhausted her to the 
point of giving up. She said shed spent more time dealing with it than the claim was worth. 
However, she said that she was flabbergasted that I could ignore the treating vets advice 
that the lens luxation causing the cancer was first noticed in July 2018 and it was 
aggressive. That being the case, Miss B considers the cancer couldnt possibly have been present in 2016. Miss B said that even if the vets offer to investigate had been accepted in 
2016, the cancer wouldnt have been found. Miss B also says that the policy says the 
365-day time period commences when the condition was first noted by you or your vet, 
which should clearly have been July 2018 based on the vets comments in August 2018. In 
addition, Miss B said that as the vet was not a party to the insurance contract, his or her 
knowledge isnt relevant, unless the facts are also known to the pet owner. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Miss Bs comments in response to my provisional decision. She has 
reiterated her previous comments about when the condition was first present and regarding 
the comments of the treating vet. I took these comments into account when I initially 
reviewed the complaint and reached my conclusions. I dont propose to repeat my 
conclusions or reasoning, but I remain satisfied that Red Sands acted reasonably when it 
concluded the condition limit started in 2016.
Miss B has said that it is the knowledge of the policyholder that matters in this case and that 
she was not aware in 2016 of the potential for a tumour to have caused the change to the 
cats eye that was noticed at the time. However, as I said in my provisional decision, 
although Miss B doesnt remember the discussion about a tumour in 2016, I remain satisfied, 
based on the contemporaneous notes, that the conversation happened, and she was aware.
Although I know Miss B will not agree with my conclusion, I remain satisfied that Red Sands 
acted reasonably when it set the time for the condition limit in 2016. I also remain of the view 
that it is not unreasonable for an insurer to place an exclusion for a diagnosed condition from 
when the condition limit would have expired.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 
26 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman