DRN-3734961
The complaint
Mr C and his mother Mrs G complain that Highway Insurance Company Limited said it would 
hold Mr C at fault if he made a claim on his motor insurance policy following an accident. 
They want Highway to record the claim as non-fault or cover it under the uninsured driver 
promise. Mrs G is a named driver on Mr Cs policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged by another driver fleeing the police at high speed. Neither Mr C nor 
the police were able to record the cars registration number. Mr C notified Highway about the 
incident and asked about making a claim. 
He was told that as the other driver hadnt been identified, then Highway wouldnt be able to 
recover its outlay. So the claim would be recorded as fault, Mr C would have to pay his £600 
policy excess and his No Claims Discount (NCD) would be affected. Highway said the 
uninsured driver promise didnt apply as the other car and its driver hadnt been identified. 
Mr C thought this was unfair, and he said he couldnt afford to pay the excess. Highway said 
Mr C may be able to recover this from the Motor Insurers Board (MIB). It said it was awaiting 
the police report and it may be able to reconsider Mr Cs claim if the other drivers details 
were recorded. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Highway had explained Mr Cs options clearly and correctly in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions. She couldnt say it had acted unfairly or unreasonably. And so she 
didnt think it needed to do anything further. 
Mrs G replied that the complaint wasnt about the policys terms and conditions but about the 
unfair outcome for Mr C. She thought he was being penalised for no fault of his own. She 
thought Highway should deal with the claim under the uninsured driver promise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C and Mrs G feel frustrated and disappointed by Highways 
decision. I think it is accepted that Mr C was clearly not to blame for the very unfortunate 
accident. But, if he makes a claim and the other drivers details arent forthcoming, then 
there will be serious financial consequences for him. 
Mrs G thought we should ask Highway to consider the matter compassionately. But its not 
our role to instruct an insurer about how to process a claim. Our approach in cases like this 
is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Highway is still awaiting the police report. It has told Mrs G that if this identifies 
the other car or driver then it may be able to reconsider how the claim is dealt with. But, in 
the meantime, if Mr C were to make a claim on his policy then the policy excess would be 
due, the claim would be recorded as fault as Highway wouldnt be able to recover its outlay 
and Mr Cs NCD would be affected. 
Im satisfied that this is in keeping with the policys terms and conditions and standard 
industry practice. And I cant say its unfair or reasonable as I think Highway hasnt treated 
Mr C any differently than other consumers. 
Mrs G thought Highway should apply the uninsured driver promise. But I dont think this 
applies in Mr Cs current circumstances as the policy states:
"If you are hit by an uninsured driver we will reinstate your no claim discount and reimburse 
any excess once we have established that the driver of the other vehicle was uninsured and 
the accident was not your fault. We will need you to provide the registration number, make, 
model and colour of the other car involved and also the drivers name and address if 
possible."
I think Highway has reasonably advised Mrs G that it would reconsider how it deals with the 
claim if information about the other driver is provided by the police report. 
Mr C said he was unable to pay the £600 policy excess applicable if he were to make a 
claim for repairs. But I think Highway has reasonably advised him that this may be 
recoverable from the MIB as an uninsured loss under the Untraced Drivers Agreement. But, 
without further information about the other driver, then Mr Cs driving record and NCD would 
still be affected.
In summary, I sympathise with Mr Cs position and the effect this unfortunate incident will 
have on him as a young driver. But Im satisfied that Highway has advised him correctly 
about his potential claim in keeping with the policys terms and conditions and fairly and 
reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman