DRN-4213322
The complaint
Mr L complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) gave him a loan which he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr L was granted one loan of £500 on 27 February 2023. He was due to make a total of 
three-monthly repayments  2 monthly payments of £238.75 followed by a final payment of 
£238.73. The loan was repaid on 25 April 2023. 
MoneyBoat considered Mr Ls complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision 
to lend and so it didnt uphold it.  Unhappy with this response, Mr L referred his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat 
carried out proportionate checks and there wasnt anything to suggest the loan would be 
unsustainable for Mr L. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Later he 
provided copy bank statements, a copy of his credit file and details of his outstanding debt 
and that he was about to enter a debt management plan. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied and I agree, as there was 
only one loan. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr L for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,200 per month. MoneyBoat says the declared income figure was 
checked through a credit reference agency and it had no concerns about the accuracy of the 
stated amount.   
Mr L also declared monthly outgoings of £750. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used 
information from its credit searches and / or details from the common financial statement to 
see whether it needed to adjust the declared expenditure Mr L had provided. As a result, of 
this check, Mr Ls monthly expenditure was increased by a further £100 and so for the 
affordability assessment, MoneyBoat used monthly outgoings of £850. 
After carrying out these checks, MoneyBoat was satisfied that Mr L had sufficient disposable 
income to be able to afford the repayments he had to make. And in the circumstances, I 
think this conclusion was reasonable.
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the result it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying 
here that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything that wouldve indicated that 
Mr L was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew there were no current 
insolvency markers, County Court Judgements or debt management plans. And it knew that 
Mr L hadnt defaulted on any account within the last three years. It also knew that Mr L had 
only opened one account within the last six months  and so that wasnt an indication that 
Mr L was reliant on this sort of credit. 
MoneyBoat did know that Mr L had two outstanding loans that have been marked as Bank 
Finance and these two loans were costing Mr L £864 per month. On top of this 
Mr L had three credit cards with outstanding balances. So MoneyBoat ought to have known that the amount Mr L declared for his credit 
commitments as part of the application (£225) wasnt high enough to cover the loans and 
credit cards that MoneyBoat was told about. But even if I substitute a more reasonable figure 
from what I can see in the credit report, with the rest of Mr Ls declared outgoings he still had 
just enough disposable income to afford the repayments. 
Mr L says that there was an impending debt management plan, but there wasnt any 
indication of this happening at the time the loan was advanced. So, I cant have expected 
MoneyBoat to have known this based on the information it received from Mr L and the 
results of its checks. 
I can also see that one of the loan accounts was showing that Mr L hadnt always made his 
contractual payments. He had made the payment, as contracted for in January 2023, but 
had paid slightly reduced amounts in the couple of months before. I have thought carefully 
about this as this would indicate that perhaps Mr L was starting to show signs of financial 
difficulties. 
But, given that all other accounts had been repaid and were up to date, Mr L had returned to 
normal contractual repayments for that loan and the checks MoneyBoat carried were 
proportionate and showed even with the larger credit commitments that the loan was 
affordable. So, I do think it was just about reasonable for MoneyBoat to have advanced this 
loan.  
Overall, this was a first loan and there was also nothing in the information that Ive seen that 
ought to have prompted MoneyBoat to do further checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr L had provided. So, it wouldve been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have viewed 
Mr Ls bank statements.
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable and proportionate for MoneyBoat to 
have relied on the information from Mr L as well as the results of its checks in deciding to 
lend to Mr L. Im therefore not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman