DRN-3741237
The complaint
Mr L complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product in May 
2011. The purchase was in Mr and Mrs Ls name but the loan was taken out by Mr L so he is 
the eligible complainant. For simplicity, in this decision I will refer to him as the sole 
purchaser.
What happened
In May 2011 Mr L purchased a timeshare membership from a company I will call C at a cost 
of £17,907. This was funded by trading in an existing product and a loan from Novuna for 
£7,208. In December 2018 a claims management company made a claim on Mr Ls behalf, 
but apparently received no response. In November 2020 Mr L made a separate claim. It was 
alleged that the credit intermediary was not authorised, there had been a breach of contract 
and the product had been misrepresented. He said he had not been given the availability to 
accommodation which had been promised. 
As no reply was received Mr L made a complaint to this service. Novuna then responded. It 
said the claims had been brought out of time. It went on to explain that the credit 
intermediary was authorised and added that the maintenance fees had increased in line with 
the agreement. It also said that the membership had not been sold in perpetuity and had an 
end date.
Our investigator obtained further information including details of Mr Ls use of his 
membership which showed 20 holidays booked between 2010 and 2018. Our investigator 
concluded the claim under s.75 had been made out of time. 
Mr L didnt agree and referenced a contract he had entered into with a claims management 
company to arrange for the contract with C to be ended. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr L) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (Novuna) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as Novuna was the lender rather than the supplier, under the Act a 
claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr L made like claims against Novuna under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 
5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, Novuna may adopt any defence that 
would have been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation.
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr L had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his s. 75 claim.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mr L entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of C.
And as the finance from Novuna in 2011 was used to help pay for the purchases, it was 
when he entered into the credit agreements that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in May 2011  which means that, at 
the latest, he had six years from when he entered into the relevant credit agreements to 
make his claims. But as he didnt do that until December 2018, and as I cant see a reason 
why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, his claims are likely 
to have been too late. And for that reason, I think Novuna has a defence to them under the 
LA.The S.140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr L and Novuna 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years. I have not been told if the loan 
has been repaid or part of it is still outstanding. However, it was for a period of 180 months, 
and Novuna has not suggested the claim under s.140A was made out of time so I am 
satisfied it was made in time.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr L could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against Novuna anyway.
Mr Ls alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Novuna assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly  over and above ensuring that Mr L could afford to repay 
what he was borrowing.
Conclusion
Having considered all the information and arguments put to me I do not consider I need ask 
Novuna to do anything else in respect of these claims.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman