DRN-3692212
The complaint
This complaint is about a repayment mortgage Mr and Mrs M hold with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander). Mr and Mrs M say Santander didnt treat them fairly during the coronavirus 
Covid-19 pandemic (the pandemic) or factor in other personal circumstances that 
prevented them from making their contractual monthly payments (CMPs) during this time. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M complained that Santander didnt follow the Mortgage and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOBS) or the Financial Conduct Authority's (FCAs) 
recommendations during the pandemic. Specifically, they felt Santander should have 
considered options such as extending the mortgage term or switching to interest only.  
Mrs M says she now works full-time and is making arrangements to settle arrears and make 
her CMPs, so she thinks Santander should hold off on legal action.
Santander says that it understands Mr and Mrs M have been through a difficult time, but as it 
hadnt received any payments since March 2016 and due to the level of arrears that had 
accrued during this period it would only accept arrears to be repaid in full in order to stop 
legal action.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ms concerns but didnt find that Santander had 
done anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs M remain unhappy, the complaint was referred to me 
to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld and Ill explain 
why.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment on what I think is relevant 
to this complaint. I also wont use exact figures or specific personal details provided as I 
dont think this will be necessary to explain my findings and this level of detail could reduce 
Mr and Mrs Ms anonymity when the decision is published.
Its expected that consumers are treated fairly under MCOBS. And the FCA gave additional 
advice to businesses about how to treat customers who struggled to meet their CMPs during 
the pandemic.
Looking into what happened during the pandemic, Mr and Mrs M were granted six payment 
deferrals between October 2020 and March 2021 and eviction proceedings were cancelled. 
This is in line with the recommendations made by the FCA. I understand Mr and Mrs M also 
wanted Santander to restructure their mortgage but given the account history I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Santander not to agree to this. 
Santander hadnt received any contribution to CMPs since February 2016 up until 
March 2022. There was also a long history of missed CMPs prior to this. So, while I 
empathize with Mr and Mrs Ms situation and their personal circumstances over the years, 
Santander has delayed legal proceedings for a long time already  the court order for 
possession was dated May 2012. 
Santander gave Mr and Mrs M time to implement other options that they had suggested and 
took into account delays caused by personal circumstances. Over the years, three eviction 
orders were cancelled in total. 
Santander didnt have any information about Mr and Mrs Ms income and expenditures until 
March 2022. And while Mr and Mrs M have been making substantial payments since then, I 
understand these have been assisted by a relative and given the history of the account and 
the unknown sustainability of payments  I could not ask Santander to do anything further at 
this point.
Considering everything, I think Santander has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman