DRN-2662338
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, provided him with a 
credit card when his financial circumstances at the time of the application were such that any 
provision of credit would have been unaffordable for him.
What happened
Mr C applied for a credit card with Barclays in May 2017. Mr Cs application was approved, 
and he was issued a card with a credit limit of £1,200. At the time of the application, Mr C 
already had existing debt, and this debt was becoming unmanageable for him. 
In August 2018, Mr C contacted Barclays and advised that he was in financial difficulties. Mr 
C felt that Barclays had contributed to the difficulties he was in because theyd provided him 
with credit which was unaffordable for him at that time. So, he made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Cs complaint, but they felt that the affordability checks that they had 
conducted when Mr C applied for the credit card hadnt demonstrated that the credit account 
would be unaffordable for him at that time, so they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, especially as he received a separate letter 
from Barclays shortly afterwards which appeared to confirm that he had been offered an 
unsuitable credit limit by Barclays. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy review, they felt that 
Barclays had conducted reasonable and proportionate affordability checks and that there 
was nothing in the results of these checks that should have suggested to Barclays that the 
credit card would be unaffordable for Mr C at the time it was applied for. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether they will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business conducts 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that the credit being applied for is affordable 
for that customer at that time of the application.
Having reviewed the checks that Barclays undertook when Mr C applied for the credit card, 
Im satisfied that theyve done that here. Barclays reviewed Mr Cs credit file in order to get a 
picture of his wider financial position and they obtained information about Mr Cs income and 
expenditure. And based on this information Barclays arrived at the conclusion that the credit 
card Mr C was applying for would be affordable for him at that time with a credit limit of 
£1,200, and they approved the application on that basis.
Im aware that Mr C feels that the amount of credit and borrowing he had elsewhere - which 
would have been visible to Barclays on his credit file at the time that he applied for the credit 
card - means in and of itself that the provision of further credit by Barclays wasnt affordable 
for him.
I can understand Mr Cs position here, but it isnt the case that borrowing in and of itself 
means that further credit or borrowing should be considered unaffordable. Rather, a key 
factor is whether the credit applicant is managing and maintaining their existing borrowing 
responsibly and within their means. And I think that the information that would have been 
available to Barclays at the time of the credit card application, including Mr Cs credit file and 
income and expenditure information, would have shown that Mr C was maintaining his 
existing borrowing in such a manner at that time.
One reason I say this is because the information that Barclays obtained regarding Mr Cs 
income and expenditure showed that Mr Cs income was greater than his expenditure at that 
time, even after taking account of Mr Cs known outgoings, including his existing borrowing.
I understand that Mr C feels that had Barclays looked in more detail at his financial 
circumstances, including reviewing his bank statements, they may have had cause to 
consider his situation differently.
Credit providers are obliged to conduct reasonable and proportionate checks, in respect of 
the amount of the credit being provided. Considering the relatively low credit limit being 
considered in this instance, Im not convinced that it should be expected that Barclays 
should have undertaken the level of checks that Mr C refers to here, because I dont feel that 
such checks would have been proportionate to the amount of credit being offered. 
Indeed, Im satisfied that the checks that Barclays did undertake in this instance were 
proportionate to the amount of credit being offered, and it follows from this that Im also 
satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to base their decision on whether to offer this 
amount of credit to Mr C on the information that was available to them from those checks.
And it must be noted that Mr C was able to maintain the credit card with Barclays without 
major incident from July 2017 to August 2018, when Mr C informed Barclays that he was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Taking the above into consideration, I dont feel that the credit card was unaffordable for Mr 
C at the time of the application. Rather, I feel that the credit card was affordable for Mr C at 
that time, but that Mr Cs financial situation subsequently deteriorated over a period of 
several months to the point that Mr C became unable to effectively maintain his financial 
position. 
But given that Im satisfied that the credit card was affordable for Mr C at the time it was 
applied for, I dont feel that Mr Cs later financial difficulties are something which I can fairly 
hold Barclays responsible for.
In circumstances where a customer has told a business that they are experiencing financial 
difficulties it would be expected by this service that the business would react positively and 
with a degree of sympathy to that customer. And I think that Barclays have done that here. When Mr C contacted Barclays in August 2018, Barclays placed a freeze on interest and 
charges on the account so that the outstanding balance didnt continue to grow, and they 
referred Mr C to their specialist department to discuss affordable repayment options.
Finally, Mr C has stated that he received a letter from Barclays which acknowledged that the 
credit limit of £1,200 that had been initially provided to him wasnt suitable. However, having 
reviewed this point and liaised with Barclays about this Im satisfied that Barclays were only 
acknowledging that the circumstances of Mr Cs application were such that the credit limit 
might have being unsuitable for him, but that a fuller review conducted by Barclays 
confirmed that this wasnt the case and that no error had been made
Im aware that Barclays have made an offer of compensation to Mr C in regard to the clarity 
of their communication in this regard, but this offer sits outside the scope of this investigation 
and so Im unable to comment on it further.
Ultimately, having conducted my review, Im satisfied that the checks that Barclays 
undertook at the time of Mr Cs application were reasonable and proportionate, and that the 
information that Barclays obtained from these checks was such that it was reasonable for 
Barclays to consider that the credit card with a credit limit of £1,200 would be affordable for 
Mr C at that time. All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr C was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman