DRN-4100927
The complaint
Miss S complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited  trading as Thesis Servicing didnt 
defer her loan repayments as it should have and then unfairly terminated her loan.
What happened
Miss S was provided with a student loan in 1997. She says that every year she applies for a 
deferment as her earnings are below the threshold. She says she applied for a deferment in 
April / May 2021 but didnt hear anything back. She then received letters from Thesis but 
thought these were a result of the company being behind on its administration due to Covid. 
As the letters continued, she contacted Thesis. On 31 December 2021 she received an 
email saying that when she applied for the deferment her earnings were above the threshold 
and she had been sent a letter in June advising her of this. Miss S says she didnt receive 
this letter. Miss S says she was then told he had arrears for 2015 /2016 which she didnt 
think was right. 
As Miss S didnt agree with the amount she was being told she owed, she didnt make the 
requested payment but says she was willing to pay the arrears from May to September. She 
then received a letter saying her loan had been terminated and she needed to pay nearly 
£2,500. Miss S says that it wasnt fair to expect her to make a payment when she was in 
dispute about the amount.
Thesis issued a final response letter in April 2022. It said that Miss S was issued with a 
deferment application form on 29 March 2021 as her deferment period was due to end on 24 
May 2021. It said her form wasnt received until 21 June 2021 and the evidence included in 
this showed her income at the time exceeded the deferment threshold and so she was sent 
a letter dated 23 June 2021 saying the deferment had been rejected. It said that it then made 
several attempts to contact Miss S but as these werent successful it continued with its 
collections process. A default notice was issued on 2 November with a deadline for action by 
24 November. Miss S didnt respond to this and a further letter was issued dated 24 
November saying it intended to issue a default for the full balance unless immediate action 
was taken. Thesis says that Miss S contacted it on 29 November and following verification 
and further communication, as the required payments werent made Miss Ss account was 
terminated on 7 January 2022.
Our investigator noted that Miss S had raised concerns about the arrears from 2015 /2016 
but that this fell outside of our jurisdiction. In regard to the arrears from 2020 onwards and 
the termination of the loan, our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Miss S 
had been sent a letter dated 23 June 2021 saying that her deferment had been rejected and 
while he accepted she may not have received this, he noted she then received several 
letters over the following months about her account. He thought Miss S was made 
reasonably aware of the situation on her account. He said that Miss S didnt challenge the 
amount owing until after the deadline set in theh default notice and so he didnt think that 
Thesis had done anything wrong by terminating the loan.
Miss S didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that she never received notification 
that her deferment had been rejected and it wasnt unreasonable, given the pandemic, that 
she thought this was still being reviewed and there was a backlog causing the delay. She 
said it wasnt fair that her loan was terminated at a time when she was eligible for a 
deferment due to her earnings being below the threshold and that she should have been told 
that she could apply for the deferment when the limit increased. She said it was reasonable 
that she would want to understand the amount she was being asked to pay before paying 
this and that she had provided evidence to show she had contacted Thesis about this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this issue has been for Miss S. But for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that Thesis had done something wrong or treated 
Miss S unfairly.
Miss S has explained that she applied for a deferment of her repayments in April /May 2021 
and didnt receive a response. I do not doubt Miss Ss testimony, but I can see that a letter 
was sent to her address in June 2021 saying that her application for deferment had been 
declined. So, I cannot say that Miss S wasnt sent the required information about the 
outcome of her application for deferment. However, accepting that Miss S didnt receive this 
letter, I think it would have been reasonable, when she started to receive letters and emails 
asking her to make contact with Thesis about her account that she would have done this  
especially as at this time she would have been waiting for confirmation of her deferment. 
Thesis made several contact attempts and while I note Miss Ss comments about why she 
didnt act at this time, I think Thesis did provide Miss S with the opportunity to contact it to 
address any issues on her account.
Thesis sent Miss S a default notice in November 2021. Given the arrears on the account and 
the lack of contact I cannot say that Thesis did anything wrong by taking this action. The 
default notice included a deadline for payment of 24 November 2021. Miss S didnt make a 
payment or contact Thesis by this date.
A further letter was sent on 24 November explaining what would happen unless Miss S took 
immediate action to clear the arrears. Miss S contacted Thesis on 29 November 2021 after 
which a letter was sent to Miss S explaining the situation on her account and action required. 
While I can see that Miss S did contact Thesis at this time raising questions about the 
amount owed, Thesis correspondence made it clear that immediate payment was required 
and further notice wouldnt be given before termination. So, while I understand that Miss S 
was trying to understand further the situation on her account, given that she had been 
provided several attempts to do this before the default notice was issued and then she didnt 
make the required payments in the timeframe set out, I do not find I can say that Thesis was 
wrong to take the action it did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman