DRN-3484645
The complaint
Mr S complained that his claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy with QIC 
Europe Ltd (QIC) was unfairly declined and he was unhappy with the time it took to get an 
answer on his claim.
What happened
Mr S made a claim to QIC under his policy when he noticed damage to the roof of his 
property. QIC appointed an in-house surveyor to review and validate the damage. The 
surveyor concluded there is no evidence of one-off storm related damage, and the issues 
are all related to wear and tear of aging materials. 
QIC declined the claim due to an exclusion for wear and tear on the policy, it said I am 
satisfied that the above exclusions apply to this claim as both the roof and render have 
deteriorated gradually over a period of time and this deterioration is the cause of the 
damage, which has been highlighted by the winds present.
Mr S was unhappy as he felt the surveyor took pictures to portrait the house in a state of 
disrepair. Mr S had said he had bought the house recently and the roof was of sound state, 
except for the flat roof that needed replacing and the render to the walls of the house.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He agreed that there were storm 
conditions around the time of the damage, but he wasnt persuaded this was the main cause 
of damage to Mr Ss property. He thought QIC had been fair to say the roof had been 
damaged gradually over time, so he thought it had been reasonable in declining the claim. 
Mr S disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
QIC said I have reviewed the weather conditions in your area on the date of the incident 
and the date we were notified of this issue; in the days preceding these points, the highest 
wind speed recorded was 59mph on 27th November 2021. Therefore, I am satisfied that the 
policy definition for a storm event has been met.
As QIC have confirmed the conditions met its storm definition, I will continue to the next 
question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I can see the damage claimed for includes tiles been dislodged or blown from the roof. I 
think tiles been blown from the roof might be what would be expected in high winds. 
Therefore, I will consider the final question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
QIC didnt think the storm caused the damage. It considered whether the wind speeds were 
the direct cause of the damage that occurred. Its surveyor said, the roof and render is 
suffering from ageing together with a lack of maintenance. The surveyor concluded that 
having considered the claim, we believe that recent weather conditions have highlighted 
pre-existing conditions of the property rather than having caused it".
I have checked the policy and can see it has a general exclusion for any gradual or 
maintenance-related loss or damage, which includes wear and tear or gradual 
deterioration. Therefore, if QIC have shown there is no evidence the storm was the main 
cause of the damage or it has shown the damage was likely to have been caused over a 
period of time, Im likely to say its been fair in declining the claim.
I have reviewed the photos that have been provided by the surveyor to support its 
conclusions. I think the commentary that the surveyor has provided is consistent with what I 
can see in the photos. I do think its more likely that the damage to the roof has been caused 
gradually over time, rather than by the one-off storm. That doesnt mean I think the storm 
hasnt blown tiles from the roof, however, I do think the roof shows sign of aging and a lack 
of maintenance  which means its more likely tiles wouldve been dislodged in high winds. 
But, I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage.
I appreciate what Mr S has said the surveyor has tried to portray the state of the house in a 
poor way  I agree the render to the side of the house is not relevant. However, I think the 
roof doesnt show any signs of any recent maintenance and there are several areas pointed 
out by the surveyor that needs attention.
As Mr S disputed the findings, QIC had the case reviewed. The reviewer thought the 
surveyors conclusions were fair. I think QIC has followed a reasonable process to get a 
second opinion on the outcome of the claim following the dispute.
I think QIC has been fair to decline the claim, it has reasonably reached its conclusion based 
on the evidence available to it. Mr S hasnt been able to provide any expert reports that 
contradict any of the evidence provided by QIC. I appreciate Mr S has referred to damage to 
other buildings locally that he says were covered by insurance claims for the same storm. 
However, I can only consider the evidence I have available for Mr S claim  which is what 
Ive done. Ive considered all the evidence to understand the circumstances of the claim and 
Ive decided based on what I think is most likely to have happened.
I can see Mr S was disappointed with the timeframes of the claim. However, having 
considered what the cause of these delays were, it appears to have been because of the 
complaint raised by Mr S. Following this, QIC carried out a secondary review and this took 
some time to conclude. However, as the on-site surveyor informed Mr S about the likely outcome of his claim, I cant see this extra delay was caused by QIC. It was responding to 
Mr S complaint, which was ultimately not upheld.
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint. I havent seen any evidence QIC delayed the 
claim and I think it has been fair in declining it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require QIC Europe Ltd to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman