DRN-4445285
The complaint
Mr P complains about a payment offered to him by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) after he made a contents insurance claim for a damaged watch, and the watch 
was lost in transit.
Any reference to LV includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr P holds contents insurance cover with LV. He made a claim for accidental damage to a 
watch. He sent the watch to LV, but LV only received an empty box. 
Mr P couldnt provide LV with proof of purchase for it to reimburse him for the watch. LV 
concluded the watch was counterfeit, and offered Mr P £50 for the watch. Unhappy with this, 
Mr P brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that, as the 
evidence suggested the watch was counterfeit, LVs offer was reasonable.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says that when LVs courier collected the watch, they put it in a box and sealed it. 
However, LV only received an empty box. Although it isnt known what happened to the 
watch, LV thought the courier may have lost it in transit. It therefore decided to offer Mr P a 
cash settlement for the value of the watch. I think that was reasonable. 
LV therefore asked Mr P to provide proof of purchase. Mr P provided photos of the damaged 
watch and the box, but said he couldnt provide proof of purchase, as hed bought the watch 
from a social media selling site and had paid cash for it. 
LVs expert examined photos of the watch, and concluded it was counterfeit. This was 
supported by a check of the IMEI number and serial number on the manufacturers database 
which showed there had been a significant number of searches against those identifiers 
across multiple countries. LVs expert therefore concluded that Mr P had purchased a 
counterfeit watch with a set of genuine identifiers that had been used for hundreds of fake 
watches.
Mr P hasnt been able to provide any evidence that the watch was genuine. I note he carried 
out his own checks on the IMEI number and serial number which led him to believe the 
watch was genuine before he purchased it. But as noted above, these were identifiers that 
were cloned from a genuine watch. 
On balance, I think LV has shown that the watch was most likely counterfeit.
As Ive said, LV had decided to offer Mr P the value of the watch. It established that a 
counterfeit watch was worth £50, so that was the amount it offered Mr P. 
Mr P argues that if LVs courier hadnt lost the watch, then he would have been fully 
compensated by the social media selling site. But he cant now make a claim with them, as 
theres no watch. So he thinks LV should pay him a cash settlement equivalent to the value 
of a genuine watch.
Ive looked at Mr Ps screenshots of messages with the person who he says sold him the 
watch. These show the parties were having some negotiations about the price of a watch. 
But they dont show that any agreement was reached for Mr P to buy that particular watch, 
or the price he paid. Mr P hasnt provided anything from the social media selling site to 
suggest that it would be willing to accept the screenshots as evidence that Mr P had bought 
the watch through their site, or that he could receive a refund if the watch was counterfeit. So 
I dont think Mr P has shown that he would have been able to get back the money he paid for 
the watch if it hadnt been lost.
Overall, Im satisfied that LVs offer was fair. The watch was worth £50 (regardless of how 
much Mr P paid for it). If the watch hadnt been lost and LV had accepted the claim and paid 
a cash settlement for it, Mr P would have only been entitled to £50 (though this would have 
been less than the £350 excess so he actually wouldnt have received any payment). 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman