DRN-2863274
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Tesco Personal Finance PLC dealt with his request to close his 
account.
What happened
Mr H says he opened what he thought was an online only account, but Tesco required a 
signature letter to be returned to it. He says in any event he didnt receive the letter and 
asked Tesco to close the account. Mr H says he was told by Tesco he needed to return the 
letter before the account could be closed despite being within the 14-day cooling off period. 
He says the account terms and conditions say the money ought to be sent back within two 
hours but was told it could take up to 48 hours. Mr H says the compensation of £25 paid by 
Tesco is insulting as he had a significant amount of money in the account and questions why 
it blamed the business that delivered the mail for him not receiving the signature letter.
Tesco says it makes clear that the account is not an online only account and says it requires 
the signature letter to be returned to it for compliance reasons. It accepts it made a mistake 
in not recognising Mr H was cancelling the account within the 14-day cooling off period. And 
has apologised, paid £25 compensation and said it will speak to the staff member involved. 
Tesco says Mr H received his money on the following day after he requested it, which is in 
line with the account terms and conditions.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and says Tesco hasnt trained its staff on the cooling off 
period rules and says Tesco should allow him to correspond with it by e-mail.
Our investigator thought Tescos records provided evidence it had sent Mr H the signature 
letter after the account was opened and thought it made clear the account wasnt an online 
only account. The investigator thought it reasonable for Tesco to request the signature letter 
be returned but accepted it made a mistake by asking for it when the closure request was 
within the cooling off period. The investigator accepted Tescos terms and conditions were 
confusing about the return of money, but Mr H received his money back the following day 
after asking for it. And that was in line with the account terms and conditions.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says £25 compensation encourages Tesco to act as a 
bully and says the complaint should be looked at through a consumer lens. He also says 
we should consider the impact on the consumer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Tesco has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it do anything further in the circumstances of it. I appreciate Mr 
H will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about what took 
place.
I make clear to Mr H that we are not Tescos regulator and so its not our role to punish it if it 
makes a mistake. And its not our role to tell it what its account opening requirements are or 
to comment on its request for Mr Hs signature. I also appreciate what Mr H says about 
Tesco staff not being trained on the cooling off period. But again, for the reasons I have 
explained, I cant fairly comment further on that or order Tesco to re-train its staff on that 
point. I also think its up to Tesco to decide how it communicates with its customers.
Im satisfied that Tesco, as I have explained, was entitled to decide that it needed Mr Hs 
signature on the form it sent him. I appreciate Mr H says he didnt receive it, but I cant fairly 
hold Tesco responsible for that as its not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail. Im 
also satisfied that the account Mr H opened wasnt an online only account and that sufficient 
information was made available about the account, which Mr H decided to open.
There is no question here that Mr H ought to have been able to cancel the account within the 
usual 14-day cooling off period without returning the signature letter. I accept Tesco gave 
him incorrect information and Im sure Mr H was caused frustration by that incorrect 
information. But Im satisfied that Tesco did agree to return Mr Hs money and that he 
received it the following day. 
I have looked at Tescos account terms and conditions and can see they say money will be 
returned within two hours or not later than the following business day. Im satisfied that is 
what took place here, that Mr H received his money the following business day. And so I find 
Tesco acted in line with those terms and conditions.
I dont think Mr H suffered any significant inconvenience or distress as a result of the 
incorrect information he was given. And I think the £25 compensation is fair and reasonable 
and not insulting as Mr H says. I dont think Mr H has told us or Tesco what he considers a 
fair and reasonable compensation award. And Im satisfied that there was minimal impact 
caused by the wrong information, as the outcome was the same- that the money was 
returned without delay.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco has dealt fairly with this complaint and I also make clear to 
Mr H that we do not consider a complaint by looking at it through the consumer lens but 
impartially considering both sides evidence and arguments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman