DRN-1653653
 
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr N have complained that Countrywide Assured Plc issued a statement to them 
in April 2019 for their whole life policy that quoted a fund value of £8,665 and a surrender 
value of £8,545, when they understood the policy guaranteed to pay a death benefit of 
£9,560, plus bonuses. In August 2018, the death benefit had been £12,336.
Theyve requested an explanation for the current value of the policy being so much less than 
the death benefit.
What happened
Mrs N and Mr N took out a joint life, first death whole life policy in August 1983, investing in a 
With Profit fund, which guaranteed a minimum death benefit (sum assured) of £9,560, plus 
bonuses accrued to-date, for which they paid a monthly premium of £15.70.
Countrywide issued annual statements each August showing the guaranteed sum assured 
and accumulated bonuses, which Mrs N and Mr N say they never received. So, they 
contacted Countrywide in April 2019 for a policy statement which confirmed the death benefit 
as £9,560, plus bonuses of £2,626. But the statement also included by mistake the policys 
fund value and surrender value of £8,665 and £8,545 respectively. These figures arent 
usually included on annual statements as they cant be guaranteed and fluctuated on a daily 
basis.
Nevertheless, Mrs N and Mr N have requested an explanation as to why the value of their 
policy has reduced. 
In response, Countrywide apologised for including the fund value and surrender value in the 
April 2019 statement that had been manually produced. While the surrender value had been 
correctly calculated, it wanted to reassure Mrs N and Mr N that the policys death benefit had 
been unaffected and was still guaranteed at £9,560, plus bonuses.
Countrywide also enclosed a copy of each annual statement it had sent to Mrs N and Mr N 
from 2014 to 2018 and the original policy brochure they received which explained that the 
cash (surrender) value varied according to investment conditions and didnt include any 
bonus.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who thought Countrywide had 
resolved it fairly. She said that:
Countrywide has accepted it was a mistake to include the surrender value in the 
statement it sent to Mrs N and Mr N in April 2019 and apologised to them for this 
error. But this didnt affect or represent the death benefit payable under the policy;
the policy brochure explains that the surrender value is different to the death benefit 
in that it has no guarantee and the cash-in value depends on how long the policy has 
been in force and investment conditions at the time; while bonuses arent guaranteed, and have varied over the last five years, its not the 
role of our service to interrogate how the With Profit fund has been managed.
While the investigator appreciated how Mrs N and Mr N might have been concerned that the 
policys value had reduced significantly, she was satisfied that Countrywide had clearly 
distinguished the death and the surrender value. 
As Mrs N and Mr N didnt accept the investigators opinion, their complaint has been referred 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to the explanations Mrs N and Mr N have been 
provided by Countrywide and the investigator.
On the understanding that Mrs N and Mr N took out the policy in 1983 to pay a guaranteed 
lump sum of £9,560, plus bonuses, if either one of them died, the policy continues to provide 
a death benefit calculated on this basis. 
The surrender value is an alternative benefit and is the amount payable if Mrs N and Mr N 
wished to cash-in the policy before it becomes a claim. It is calculated as 99 per cent of Mrs 
N and Mr Ns share of the whole With Profit fund, less deductions for the life cover provided 
by their policy. It is therefore less than the guaranteed sum assured of £9,560 which is fixed 
at the start of the policy, whereas the surrender value accumulates over time as premiums 
are paid and in accordance with investment conditions. Its not within my power to question 
how Countrywide calculates the policys surrender value. 
Mrs N and Mr N have also said that they failed to receive any of the annual statement for 
their policy since 2014. While I dont dispute what they have said, the copy statements 
provided by Countrywide show that these statements were correctly addressed to Mrs N and 
Mr N at the time. If they have gone astray in the post, I cant attribute that to Countrywide.
Notwithstanding that Countrywide include the policys surrender value in the statement it 
produced manually at Mrs N and Mr Ns request in April 2019, the surrender value is not the 
amount payable on first death  that continues to be the guaranteed sum assured of £9,560, 
plus bonuses.   
My decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mrs N and Mr N's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman