DRN-4166641
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Atkinson Rose LLP trading as Atkinson Rose (AR) handled her 
employment dispute case. 
What happened
Ms S said she was in dispute with her employer. She said she looked to instruct a solicitor to 
help her with her case against them. Ms S said she thought AR were employment solicitors 
but later found out they were a claims management company (CMC). 
Ms S said their customer care letter (CCL) wasnt clear as to who they were or what they did. 
She said they missed deadlines and persuaded her to leave her employment which she 
didnt want to do. Ms S said she didnt think AR were acting in her best interests and wanted 
solicitors to consider her case. She said the agreement shed with AR was on a No Win No 
Fee basis and as she didnt agree to the settlement with them their fee wasnt justified. She 
said AR has now asked her pay around £19,000 as they said shed breached her contract 
with them and had started legal proceedings for the recovery of their fee. Ms S complained 
to AR.
AR said Ms S had made a number of complaint points, their CCL being unclear, she wasnt 
given the opportunity to consider what she was agreeing to during the cooling off period 
because of the information shed been asked to provide for the Advisory, Conciliation and 
Arbitration Service (ACAS). She complained shed been poorly represented by them and 
that theyd mis-led her into thinking shed instructed employment solicitors. She also said 
theyd persuaded her to leave her employment even though she didnt want to.
 AR said theyd been clear throughout about who was representing Ms S and the work they 
would do for her. AR said theyd kept Ms S updated about the progress of her employment 
dispute and worked to achieve a reasonable settlement from her employer. AR said theyd 
more than doubled the initial settlement offer that had been made to Ms S before their 
involvement. And Ms S had accepted the settlement offer before she said she no longer 
wanted AR to act for her. They also said that a provision of any settlement was that Ms S 
would leave her employment. AR said Ms S had breached her agreement and so they were 
justified in asking her to pay a fee of £19,284 in line with their terms and conditions.
Ms S wasnt happy with ARs response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair for AR to rely on the breach of contract clause. Ms S 
had a No Win No Fee that meant shed pay AR a fee on the offer of a reasonable settlement. 
As AR had reached an agreement between Ms S and her employer for a reasonable 
settlement offer he said it would be fair for AR to ask Ms S to pay their fee on the basis of 
the No Win No Fee arrangement.
Ms S didnt agree and reiterated her complaint points about AR. She asked for an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. While Ive fully considered all the evidence, and Ms S detailed 
testimony, Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, it isnt this services role to investigate Ms S complaint against her former employer. 
Neither can we consider the costs Ms S incurs from her solicitors for work done in any legal 
proceedings. So, I wont comment further on these issues.
AR are a CMC and complaints about CMCs are dealt with by the Claims Management 
Ombudsman. In reaching my decision Ive considered whether AR, as a CMC have treated 
Ms S fairly and reasonably when advising, investigating and representing her case.
I know Ms S said she used ARs services as she thought they were solicitors, but Ive not 
seen anything to show me that AR are, or were, regulated as solicitors  theyre regulated as 
a CMC. As a CMC, AR are required to provide Ms S with information that is fair, clear and 
not misleading before she agrees to them representing her. Ive looked at ARs website 
which says: 
Atkinson Rose LLP are a claims management company.
The website gives details of ARs team and their approach. And shows theyre regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in respect of claims management activities.  They do 
refer to speaking to a lawyer. A lawyer is anyone who could give legal advice, this term 
encompasses solicitors, barristers, and legal executives. The Solicitors Regulation Authority 
regulates solicitors in England and Wales. 
I havent seen any information which suggests AR claimed to be a firm of solicitors or 
otherwise to lead Ms S into believing they were. I can see AR sent Ms S their complaints 
procedure alongside the CCL, which sets out that a complaint about AR are subject to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman, which doesnt suggest they are an authorised firm of 
solicitors. Also, the information about who would be assisting Ms S with her dispute doesnt 
say solicitor but that theyre experienced in HR and employment dispute settlements. So, I 
cant say AR have acted unreasonably here.
Employment claims are very individual and however similar, no two are exactly alike. At the 
time Ms S instructed AR she was at a stage where she could look for early conciliation with a 
negotiated settlement without the need to progress to an employment tribunal. What Id 
expect is AR to have been transparent and upfront about who they were, how much they 
would charge, what they would do and what the likelihood of success would be with the 
options available to her. And I think AR has done this. 
I can see in June 2022 AR sent Ms S their CCL. This covered, fees, initial action, timescale, 
level of risk/uncertainty, hourly fees, employment tribunal, ACAS, expenses and conditions 
of the agreement which included the termination of it. For fees the basis of their charges 
were:
1) a fixed fee of £800 + VAT(£160) = £960 to review relevant documentation relating to your 
work related matter, provide advice with regards to the remaining grievance process, ACAS, 
and if needed purpose and negotiate a settlement agreement with the employer where they 
are willing to do so;2) a fee of 25% plus VAT fee in relation in relation to any monies/compensation received by 
you from your employment matters and any other contractual non- contractual payments 
and/or compensation or termination payments by way of any compensation.
I can see that Ms S, after she suggested a change to the wording about her dispute with her 
employer, signed the contract agreement in late June 2022. And paid two instalments of 
£480. As Ms S had a No Win No Fee agreement with AR, this meant shed pay a fee of 25% 
plus VAT for any monies/compensation that she received from her employer as settlement of 
her dispute.
ARs CCL also said that, if Ms S terminated the retainer, or if they had to terminate it 
because she breached the conditions, they had the right to bill you on an hourly basis for 
the work that had been carried out alternatively, for 35% plus expenses of any offer made to 
you by the Respondent."
The CCL explained that the usual hourly rate would be £200 but said if another named 
colleague was involved the hourly rate would be £300.
From the information Ive seen, I cant say AR acted without instructions. There is regular 
communication between AR and Ms S discussing all aspects of the settlement. And theres a 
number of occasions where AR, following Ms S instructions, return to her employer with 
suggested changes to some of the finer points of the settlement terms. So, the evidence 
shows Ms S was very much involved in the negotiations and was fully aware of the terms on 
which AR were settling her claim. I can see that the deadline for early conciliation through 
ACAS was 11 August 2022. The final negotiated ex gratia offer made by Ms S former 
employer was for £22,000 made by them on 11 August 2022, which was accepted subject to 
a COT3 Agreement being drafted. This agreement would reflect what had been agreed 
between Ms S and her employer. I can see from ARs records that further discussions 
around wording (how Ms S told her team she was leaving) within the COT3 were discussed 
up to 22 August 2022 when Ms S complained to AR and stated she no longer wanted to 
instruct them.
Ms S says that she was unwell and that AR pressured her despite being aware of her 
vulnerabilities when she wasnt in a position to make a decision on settlement. Ive looked at 
the emails exchanged between Ms S and AR and, while I agree Ms S does bring this to ARs 
attention, I can see Ms S continues to engage with AR and provides instructions on the 
settlement terms. And after Ms S ends her association with AR she is sent the COT3 
agreement by the ACAS conciliator who explains Ms S former employer has said the terms 
of the settlement were non-negotiable. So, I cant say AR have acted unfairly here.
Ms S has confirmed she received a settlement from her former employer in October 2022. I 
havent seen any evidence to show that anyone other than AR had negotiated the 
settlement. Nor that the ex-gratia settlement offer of £22,000 was increased. Ms S has said 
she sought legal advice about the possibility of pursuing an employment tribunal case, and 
while there was the possibility her settlement could be increased, she didnt pursue this 
avenue.
Ms S says the actions of AR led her to lose her job with her former employer. But the 
evidence shows the settlement terms being discussed throughout involve Ms S leaving her 
employment. And I can see Ms S in an email response said I don't even want to lose my 
job, and they are the ones that forced it, the implication being her employer not AR. So, I 
cant say any errors by AR are the reason for Ms S leaving her former employer. This is 
down to the terms of settlement shed agreed.
As stated above the terms of the agreement detail ARs charges where they consider there has been a breach of contract. And as Ms S terminated her dealings with AR only after a 
settlement offer had been made did AR seek to implement the terms of the agreement. And 
they invoiced Ms S on an hourly basis for the work that had been carried out, this being 
66.25 hours at £200, and 9.4 hours at £300, including VAT this in total amounted to £19,284.
I can see Ms S terminated the agreement shed with AR only after a final settlement offer 
had been made by her former employer in August 2022 for an ex-gratia payment of £22,000.  
AR has looked to apply the terms of the agreement for breach of contract and asked Ms S to 
pay a fee calculated on an hourly rate for work theyd done. But I agree with our investigator 
that the fee AR calculated based on the No Win No Fee agreement would be a fairer 
resolution. AR calculated their fee to be £5,500 plus VAT in total £6,600. 
Putting things right
I understand this has been a difficult time for Ms S, she has been heavily invested in the 
outcome of her employment dispute. And has had to leave her employment. But the 
agreement signed by her in June 2022, was on a No win No fee basis. This means AR 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually 
did. Where a claim was successful, ARs fee may be more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And as I think 
AR successful negotiated an ex-gratia settlement for Ms S for £22,000, I consider her claim 
was successful and so ARs fee of 25% plus VAT - £6,600 is justified.
I understand that AR had looked to recover their fee by way of a court hearing. The Claims 
Management Ombudsman  a Financial Ombudsman Service operates according to a set of 
rules made by the FCA. These rules are set out in a section of the FCAs Handbook called 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints ( DISP). 
DISP 3.6.6(3) says: if the complainant notifies the Ombudsman that he accepts the 
determination within that time limit, it is final and binding on both parties. And DISP 3.6.6(4) 
..if the complainant does not notify the Ombudsman that he accepts the determination 
within that time limit, the complainant will be treated as having rejected the determination, 
and neither party will be bound by itMy final decision
For the reasons outlined above I ask Atkinson Rose LLP trading as Atkinson Rose to reduce 
their outstanding bill from £19,284 (hourly rate) to their percentage fee of 25% plus VAT - 
£6,600. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman