DRN-2587427
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc closed his bank account and wont return money held 
in the account to him.
What happened
Mr J had a current account with Santander, which he opened with the bank on 2 December 
2019. Between 19 and 24 December 2019 three faster payments totalling £5,000 were made 
into Mr Js account. Mr J made several payments out of the account which left a balance of 
just over £2,200. 
Santander took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how Mr J was 
operating his account. So, on 30 December 2019, the bank blocked Mr Js account whilst it 
did that. Santander spoke to Mr J and asked him about the origin of the money which had 
been paid into his account. Mr J told the bank that hed lent his friend, Mr G, some money 
and the three payments were from Mr G who was repaying the money hed lent him. 
Santander asked Mr J to provide paperwork to support whatd hed said including Mr Gs 
bank account statements. 
On 16 January 2020, Mr J went into branch and gave Santander copies of Mr Gs bank 
statements between 19 and 25 December 2019, which he said showed the source of the 
money and that he was entitled to the funds. Unfortunately, Santander made an error 
forwarding the information which Mr J had provided onto their review team. This meant the 
bank didnt look at the information until 28 January 2020. Santander apologised to Mr J and 
paid him £30 compensation for the delays caused by its mistake. However, it said the 
information hed provided wasnt sufficient to show he was entitled to the money in his 
account. So, it didnt release the money in the account to him. Following this the bank 
decided to close Mr Js account immediately.
Mr J wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where one 
of our investigators looked into things. The investigator reviewed the information Mr J had 
provided and agreed with the banks assessment. He also said that Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Mr Js account. And it had done enough to put 
things right regarding the delays. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about the 
payments into his account. The investigator asked Mr J to provide more information about 
the money. Mr J said the money wasnt actually a repayment for a loan, but that Mr G had 
transferred the money to him to place bets for the both of them. And they planned to split 
any winnings. So, he wants the bank to release the money remaining in his account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr J feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats hes 
said to us and to Santander. Whilst I appreciate Mr Js frustration, its important to point out 
that the only thing in question here is whether Santander has done what it should have done. 
And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its 
obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. 
Santander is also entitled to ask a customer for more information about how they use their 
account, including payments which are made into and from an account. And its not for this 
service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any 
mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened.
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account or access to money in his account 
made things quite difficult for Mr J  especially over the Christmas period. So, I can 
understand why he found this experience with Santander stressful and upsetting. But as Ive 
explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having 
looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Santander was complying with its obligations 
when it blocked Mr Js account. The bank has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr J inconvenience, I 
cant say Santander treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
The crux of Mr Js complaint is that he wants the money that was paid into his account 
released to him. Mr J initially told us and the bank that the money was repayment for a loan 
hed made to his friend Mr G. But more recently hes said it was actually money he and Mr G 
were using to place bets. In support of what hes said, hes provided copies of what he says 
are Mr Gs bank statements. Santander didnt think the information was sufficient, and I can 
understand the banks concerns. I say this because the information doesnt show the origin 
of the funds. Ive also kept in mind that Mr G has provided two very different explanations for 
why the money was paid into his account.  And I cant think of a reasonable explanation why 
Mr G would be financing Mr Js gambling. So, Im not satisfied that Mr J has been able to 
demonstrate hes entitled to the money remaining in his account. 
It maybe that Mr J can now provide more information about the funds in his account to the 
bank.  But, in the circumstances, I can understand why Santander wanted to know more 
about the funds. I can understand too why it didnt consider Mr J had adequately explained 
his entitlement to the money. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mr J unfairly when it 
decided not to release the money to him. And I wont be asking the bank to do so. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Js account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Mr Js account with immediate notice. In my view that was reasonable, 
given the concerns the bank had about how Mr J was operating his account. And Im 
satisfied it did so in line with the terms and relevant regulations. So, whilst I appreciate this caused him trouble and upset, I cant say Santander have treated Mr J unfairly when it 
decided to close his account without notice.
Finally, Santander has accepted it caused delays after Mr J provided the bank with 
information about the payments. It accepts it didnt send the paperwork onto its review team 
soon enough or label the information clearly so that it could be reviewed properly. This 
meant Mr J had to wait longer. Santander has apologised and paid Mr J £30 for the trouble 
and upset this caused him. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of 
Mr Js complaint so, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman