DRN-2619347
The complaint
 Mr B and Mrs B (the complainants) say AFH Independent Financial Services Limited 
(AFH) is responsible for making an erroneous withdrawal from their La Mondiale Policy (the 
policy) in January 2020 and is responsible for financial loss and future costs and tax 
liabilities associated with the error and/or its correction.
What happened
 AFH concedes responsibility for the error and has apologised to the complainants for it. 
The complainants began the policy in 2017. In December 2019 they instructed AFH, as their 
investment manager, to make a partial withdrawal of 13,000 Euros from the policy. AFH 
executed that instruction in January 2020. However, it mistakenly executed a second 
withdrawal of the same amount in the same month. The complainants say they noticed 
receipt of the second withdrawal on 4 February 2020 and notified AFH, in response to which 
it acknowledged the mistake.
The complainants say that, on 7 February 2020, AFH invited them to reinvest the second 
withdrawal back into the policy and offered to cover any loss arising from the matter. In 
response, they complained because they considered that they had suffered a financial loss 
from AFHs mistake; that they are also bound to incur a future domestic tax liability (in their 
country of residence) in 2021 due to the second withdrawal; and that the reinvestment 
proposal was inappropriate, given the higher tax implications for reinvestments upon 
surrenders in the first five years of the policy (at the time, it was in its fourth year).
AFH acknowledged the complainants decision not to reinvest and looked into whether (or 
not) they had suffered a financial loss between 13 January 2020 (when the second 
withdrawal happened) and 19 March 2020 (the end date set by AFH)  the financial loss 
period. It obtained evidence on the performance of the assets within the policy which were 
liquidated for the withdrawal and calculated that their overall value had fallen by around 17% 
during this period. It concluded that the complainants had not suffered a financial loss from 
the withdrawal and instead they had fortuitously avoided a loss because of the withdrawal. 
The complainants disputed the use of what they considered an arbitrary end date, disputed 
AFHs calculation that the withdrawal saved them a loss of around 17% and took the view 
that its approach had not taken into account the additional costs they would have incurred if 
they reinvested the withdrawal. 
AFH also considered potential future costs arising directly from the withdrawal and it asked 
the complainants to provide it with evidence of such costs when they arise in order for it to 
consider covering them. The complainants disagreed with this approach and took the view 
that AFH should be able to conduct a projected calculation of such future costs and to pay 
them compensation for that presently. In addition, they said they lack confidence in AFH 
upholding a promise to cover such costs in the future.
With regards to costs associated with the execution of the withdrawal, AFH noted that the 
equivalent of social security contributions had been deducted from the withdrawal and that 
the deduction was 11.46 Euros. It offered, to the complainants, compensation for this within 
a total offer of £100 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused them. In response, the 
complainants said this offer is inadequate. They also highlighted that AFH had not replied to 
their request for a refund of the annual fee they had paid.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and agreed with AFHs approach for 
considering financial loss, but he concluded that £250  not £100  should be given to the 
complainants for the trouble and upset caused to them; and he noted that AFH had agreed 
to this. He was satisfied with evidence that the withdrawal helped them to avoid the fall in 
value of around 17%, and that the withdrawal did not cause a financial loss; he was satisfied 
with what he considered to be AFHs undertaking to cover, upon the complainants 
presentation of evidence, any additional costs or tax implications arising directly from 
execution of the withdrawal; and he was not persuaded that AFH should refund the annual 
fee given that its mistake in the matter was an isolated occurrence. 
The complainants accepted the investigators view on the notion of refunding the annual fee, 
but they disagreed with the other findings he made. They retained their position on the end 
date used by AFH and said it discounts the point that, but for the erroneous withdrawal, the 
relevant 13,000 Euros would have continued to be invested on an ongoing basis; they said 
the investigators findings ignore compensation for reinvestment costs; they said the 
additional tax costs (in 2021) that is likely to result from the withdrawal should be around 300 
Euros; so they consider total compensation of 1,000 Euros will be fair.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view and the complainants asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. The investigator said the end date fairly reflected the complainants 
rejection of AFHs reinvestment proposal and had that proposal been accepted they then 
could have had grounds for their reinvestment costs to be covered. He also said AFH has 
been told about future tax/costs potentially arising in relation to the withdrawal, evidence of 
which the complainants will present, and that if AFH does not cover such future tax/costs the 
complainants can return to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. Responsibility for the erroneous withdrawal is conceded by AFH 
and the fairness of that concession is supported by available evidence which establishes its 
responsibility for the error. As such, the underlying issue in the complaint is upheld and the 
next point to address is that of compensation.
In terms of the trouble and upset caused to the complainants, I am satisfied with the £250 
proposed by the investigator. It is an amount that adequately compensates for the 
inconvenience they were caused by AFHs error and it fairly reflects the fact that such 
inconvenience was mitigated by AFHs efforts to repair its error upon notification of it. As 
summarised further below, those efforts were meaningful. With regards to the matters of 
trouble and upset I am persuaded that its efforts (and pro-activity in the matter) also limited 
the inconvenience caused to the complainants. £250 is broadly consistent with the level of 
compensation for trouble and upset this service has awarded in comparable cases. I am also 
satisfied with the idea of this compensation being inclusive of the 11.46 Euros deduction 
made from the withdrawal.The complainants accept the investigators view on their claim for an annual fee refund. For 
the sake of completeness, my finding shares his view. AFHs error appears to have been 
isolated, so grounds do not exist to conclude that the complainants had been denied the 
overall service for which they paid the annual fee. In the absence of such grounds, a refund 
of that fee would not be fair.
With regards to financial loss, I consider as follows:
The complainants decision to decline AFHs reinvestment proposal is important. 
They were entitled to make that decision and I do not suggest that their right to do so 
should be questioned. However, their decision defines  and limits  the basis upon 
which they can fairly be compensated. By making that decision they  not AFH  
determined, from then onwards, that the relevant 13,000 Euros will remain 
uninvested. A limit (or end period) upon AFHs liability for financial loss also 
emerged, naturally, from that decision. It could not thereafter, and fairly, be liable for 
lost investment performance because it was the complainants decision not to 
reinvest the money. The decision also nullifies the notion of compensation for 
reinvestment costs. No reinvestment happened so no such costs arose. On balance 
and in the circumstances, AFH also had reason to rely on the decision as meaning 
no such costs would arise in the future  because the complainants were against the 
idea of reinvestment. 
The complainants say the end date of 19 March 2020 is an arbitrary one. The facts 
suggest it was a date determined by AFH but, on balance, I do not consider it an 
unfair end date. The complainants declined the reinvestment proposal before this 
date and AFH responded to their complaint after this date, so the date reflects neither 
event. However, the balance of available evidence suggests that it was the date on 
which AFH concluded to accept that the complainants decision would stand (and 
would not be reversed) and that it should proceed to the outcome of their complaint 
on this basis. Overall, I do not consider this approach to have been unreasonable, 
especially as it appears to have given the complainants more time, before AFHs 
response, to change their mind on the reinvestment proposal if they wished. 
Like the investigator, I consider that this service has been provided with reliable 
evidence that the assets liquidated for the withdrawal fell in value during the financial 
loss period. The complainants do not appear to have challenged the investigators 
view on this and therefore they appear to agree. AFH concedes liability for any 
financial loss from the withdrawal within the financial loss period, but none appears to 
exist. If the complainants disagree, they have not presented evidence to the contrary.
AFH is aware of its responsibility, upon the presentation of evidence, for any future costs 
and/or tax liability(ies) arising directly from the erroneous withdrawal. For the sake of 
completeness I find that, if such costs and/or tax liability(ies) arise, if they arise directly 
because of the erroneous withdrawal of January 2020 (without any intervening actions or 
events that meaningfully break the causal link to that withdrawal), and provided that the 
complainants present evidence of such costs and/or tax liability(ies) to AFH, AFH will be 
wholly responsible for such costs and/or tax liability(ies) and will be required to compensate 
the complainants in full in that respect.
I consider the above finding to be sufficient and appropriate. I do not agree with the 
complainants suggestion to speculate on the existence and amount of such possible (or 
probable) future costs and/or tax liability(ies).Putting things right
 I order AFH to do as follows:
Pay the complainants £250 for the trouble and upset caused to them by its erroneous 
withdrawal of January 2020 (inclusive of compensation for the 11.46 Euros deduction 
made from the withdrawal).
Give the complainants an express undertaking, if one has not already been given, to 
compensate them for any future costs and/or tax liability(ies) arising directly from the 
erroneous withdrawal, and in the circumstances I have set out above.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint from Mr B and Mrs B only on the grounds set out above and I order 
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited to put the matter right for them as I have set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman