DRN-4261915
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of a claim made under
her plumbing and drainage insurance cover.
Where Ive referred to Aviva below, this includes any action or communications from their
claim handing agent who dealt with the claim on their behalf.
What happened
Miss B identified a possible leak under her flooring, so she contacted Aviva, her plumbing
and drainage insurance provider. Following an inspection, Miss B was told to make access
to the pipe, which included removing the flooring, breaking tiles and digging up the concrete
below.
Miss B booked an appointment for the pipe repair and arranged for the access works to be
completed first thing on the day of the appointment.
However, shortly after the booked appointment time had passed, Aviva contacted Miss B
and said the appointment hadnt been correctly booked due to their system limitations, and it
would require more time to complete. Miss B was told the earliest the appointment could
take place was two days later.
Miss B was unhappy with this as she had no heating or water at her property as a result of
having the access works completed earlier that day. Aviva refused to provide, or cover the
cost of, hotel accommodation until the appointment, so Miss B had to pay for this.
The rescheduled appointment went ahead and the leaking pipe was repaired. Aviva offered
£150 compensation and later increased this to £200. Miss B is unhappy Aviva wont
reimburse the accommodation and additional costs she incurred, and she feels further
compensation is warranted, so she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt uphold it. He said the service
from Aviva had fallen short, but he considered the £200 compensation already offered was
reasonable. He said Miss B could have arranged portable heaters, bottled water and could
have used washing and bathroom facilities at a friend, family, or neighbour.
Miss B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached a different outcome 
to our investigator, so Im issuing a provisional decision to give both parties an 
opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reach my final decision.
Miss B arranged a follow up appointment for the leaking pipe to be repaired online. 
Aviva recognise that a system issue allowed this appointment to be booked, when 
the job was actually much larger than shouldve been able to be booked online.
As the system allowed this, Miss B was under the impression the pipe repair would 
be carried out on 14 January 2023. As advised was required, previously, Miss B 
arranged on that day and prior to the appointment slot for the tiles and concrete 
below the flooring to be dug up, and the pipes to be exposed. Miss B purposely 
arranged it for the morning of the appointment, as this work would result in no water, 
washing facilities or heating and the flooring being fully exposed, so she attempted to 
mitigate the impact of this.
The scheduled appointment timeslot was between 8am and 1pm. Miss B was given
confirmation on that morning the appointment was still going ahead. However, after 
the appointment slot time had been and passed, Miss B was told by Aviva that the 
appointment would be cancelled and rescheduled for 16 January 2023. This was 
because the job was too big for that type of appointment, and they said Miss B 
shouldnt have been able to book this online, but an issue with Avivas system 
allowed it to be.
However, as a result of access being made prior to the scheduled and now cancelled
appointment, Miss B had no water, washing or bathroom facilities or heating. She 
therefore asked for hotel accommodation to be provided. Aviva said this wasnt 
something that was covered by the policy so refused to cover the cost of this.
Our investigator didnt think Avivas refusal was unreasonable. Im not minded to 
agree. Ill explain why.
If it was the leaking pipe which meant Miss B was without water, washing facilities or
heating, then that wouldnt be the fault of Aviva, and alternative accommodation isnt
covered under the policy terms. However, here, Miss B did have all these facilities, 
until access was made on the day of the appointment.
If either Avivas systems didnt allow this type of appointment to be made, or Aviva 
had contacted Miss B prior to the appointment, then this lack of facilities couldve 
been avoided. But the fact here is that due to both these points, this resulted in the 
loss of facilities, and I think thats ultimately the fault of Aviva.I can see from the notes that Aviva said the property wasnt uninhabitable  and our
investigator agreed with this. However, I dont agree. If it was just no heating, unless 
there were specific reasons for this being a necessity, I might not conclude this alone 
would render the property uninhabitable. But here, Miss B had no water in her 
property at all, which also means she had no washing or bathroom facilities. So, I 
think the property was in fact uninhabitable, and that stems from Avivas system 
issues and handling of the claim and last-minute appointment cancellation and 
rescheduling.
The policy terms say:
Our engineers
A (agents name) engineer will normally carry out any work required at your 
property. Sometimes, we may send a suitably qualified contractor instead.
Whilst Aviva might not have had any engineers available, the policy terms do allow 
for other contractors to be appointed, but Aviva declined to do this and said the 
earliest that an appointment could be given was two days later. So, this left Miss B in 
a position of facing two days with no water, bathroom or washing facilities. And I think 
she took reasonable actions of staying in a hotel in order to be able to wash and 
have access to water until the rescheduled appointment could take place.
So, whilst the policy terms dont specifically cover alternative accommodation, my 
remit isnt limited to considering the policy terms alone. Instead, I also consider what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And I can direct Aviva to 
pay for costs outside the policy terms, if I decide its fair and reasonable to do so.
Ive seen the list of costs Miss B incurred, and I dont think on the whole they are 
excessive or unreasonable:
Hotel £178
Dinner £22.72
Lunch £14.08
Coffee £6.25
Breakfast £18.79
Dinner £7.25
Parking £8
Total = £255.09
Considering it was two nights in a hotel, I dont think the price per night is excessive 
or unreasonable. As Im minded to conclude it was as a result of Aviva (and their 
systems) failings that Miss B needed to stay in a hotel, unless anything changes as a 
result of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill be directing Aviva to reimburse 
the accommodation cost (subject to Miss B providing evidence such as receipts) as 
Im minded to conclude that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I also dont think the food and beverage costs Miss B incurred were excessive either, 
in fact they appear quite reasonable costs for eating out as she was unable to be at 
home and use her own kitchen facilities. And I also think the parking cost couldve 
been avoided if it wasnt for what happened. Therefore, unless anything changes as 
a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill also be directing Aviva to 
reimburse those costs (subject to Miss B providing evidence such as receipts) on a 
fair and reasonable basis too.Aviva would also need to add 8% simple interest from the date Miss B paid the 
invoices/bills to date of reimbursement.
I recognise Aviva has already offered £200 compensation, and Miss B has asked for 
£1,000. However, Im satisfied that £200 is a reasonable amount for what happened 
purely as compensation, so I dont intend to direct Aviva to increase this amount. But 
the compensation is separate to the financial costs Miss B incurred, and as outlined, 
Im minded to direct Aviva to reimburse these costs to Miss B (with 8% interest as 
outlined) in addition to the compensation theyve already offered.
Miss B has also said her partner suffered loss of earnings and/or a day of annual 
leave as he had to wait in for the rescheduled appointment. Our investigator said that 
with any claim there will be an element of inconvenience, so he wouldnt be asking 
Aviva to do anything further in relation to this. I agree, to an extent, with what our 
investigator said about any claim will likely cause inconvenience, however what is 
also important to note here is that just Miss B is the policyholder and Avivas 
customer, and I cant direct Aviva to pay compensation to third parties either way.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Aviva to pay the £200 compensation 
already offered if they hadnt already done so, reimburse the £255.09 costs incurred subject 
to proof, and add 8% simple interest to the reimbursement from the date the invoice was 
paid to the date of settlement.
The responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded to my provisional decision, but they didnt agree. They said they are unsure 
why Miss B arranged for access to be made when it is covered by her policy. They said if 
Miss B had waited for the engineer to make access, then she wouldnt have been in that 
position. Aviva also say they are unsure why there were no facilities until access had been 
made as they say Miss B had the leak for some time before the appointment for repair was 
scheduled.
Aviva also say that when their engineer first attended, Miss B was advised access was 
required and she would need to sign a disclaimer for the engineer to complete this. They say 
that Miss B should have called them to do this, and she was aware it would be a long job. 
And they say if Miss B had called them to arrange this, the correct appointment would have 
been made and Miss B wouldnt have been left without any facilities.
Miss B responded to say the policy shouldve been in joint names and therefore her partners 
annual leave should be compensated for. She didnt make any other comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about my provisional decision and the responses to it. Having 
done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.Aviva has asked why Miss B arranged access when this was covered by the policy. But they 
also say Miss B was told shed need to sign a disclaimer in relation to breakages that could 
occur including to the tiles and retiling the floor wouldnt be covered. So, whilst excavation 
might be covered by the policy, its clear that not all the resultant damage would be  hence 
the disclaimer. And the file notes from Aviva show that Miss B was going to think about her 
options after that first visit before deciding whether to go ahead. 
The access was then arranged by Miss B which meant there was no water, and the flooring 
was fully exposed in the bathroom to allow access to the pipes. So, this is why there was no 
water or facilities after the access had been made. And Miss B timed this for immediately 
before the scheduled appointment to ensure minimal disruption.
Aviva also says the leak was present for some time before the repair was scheduled. 
However, whilst this was the case, Miss B still had water and facilities at that time. Avivas 
notes from the first visit confirm it was a hissing noise under the floor, rather than no water, 
which resulted in the first call out. Therefore, whilst a leak was present, Miss B still had water 
and facilities until the floor was later excavated.
Aviva also say that Miss B should have known it would have been a long job, and if shed 
called them, they could have booked the right appointment, so she wouldnt have been left 
without facilities or water. However, Avivas notes reflect follow on will be required half days 
work so will require long duration and Miss B booked an 8am to 1pm appointment, so half a 
day as advised.
Miss B was given confirmation on the morning of the appointment that it would go ahead. 
Aviva then cancelled the appointment after the time slot had passed and rescheduled it for 
two days later.
Had Aviva contacted Miss B sooner, then the access wouldnt have been made and Miss B 
would have had facilities and water until the rescheduled appointment. However, Aviva didnt 
contact Miss B until the time slot had passed. And as I outlined in my provisional decision, 
the terms also mention that Aviva can appoint contractors instead of their engineers, so if 
there wasnt an engineer available this is an option Aviva could have completed instead, but 
Aviva refused to do this.
Therefore, Aviva could have cancelled the appointment sooner, or when it was too late, 
explored appointing another contractor, but Aviva didnt do either. Instead, they were aware 
Miss B had no facilities or water and arranged an appointment for two days later. My view 
remains that Miss B took reasonable actions (at a reasonable cost) of staying in a hotel until 
the rescheduled appointment. And my view remains that Aviva need to reimburse those 
costs with 8% simple interest added from the date Miss B paid the bills to date of 
reimbursement.
Whilst I note Miss B says her partner should be on the policy and therefore, he should be 
compensated for annual leave, the fact here is that he isnt noted on the policy and I cant 
direct Aviva to compensate third parties. And in any event, as I mentioned, any claim will 
cause inconvenience, and Aviva has already offered £200 compensation. I think that amount 
is fair in the circumstances, so Im not directing them to increase the amount of 
compensation.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Aviva Insurance Limited 
to:
Pay Miss B the £200 compensation they offered, if they havent already done so
Reimburse the £255.09 costs incurred (subject to evidence being provided, such as 
receipts)
To the reimbursement amount, add 8% simple interest* from the date the invoice or 
bill was paid to the date of settlement.
*If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman