DRN-3569506
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited has unfairly 
charged it £2,493 of transaction authorisation fees. 
H is represented in bringing this complaint by one of its directors, who Ill refer to as Mrs M.
 What happened
H is a retail business with an online shop. It accepts card payments on its website, using 
WorldPay as its merchant acquirer and a third party as its gateway provider. 
In February 2022, H discovered that there had been a large number of low value transaction 
attempts on its website, which had been declined. 
A few weeks later, H received its monthly bill from WorldPay, which contained an 
unexpected £2,493 of authorisation fees, much of which relating to the declined transactions.  
H complained to WorldPay, which said that H had almost certainly been a victim of an 
activity known as high volume card-testing. WorldPay declined to refund the charges and 
suggested that H speak to its gateway provider to improve transaction-processing security 
and prevent it happening again. 
H referred its complaint to our service, making the following points:
H had contacted its gateway provider immediately after the attack and been assured 
all the security settings were correct. 
WorldPay were the only merchant services firm charging these fees.
WorldPay had said that, if they had been gateway provider as well as acquirer, they 
would have refunded the charges. But WorldPay werent able to be their gateway 
provider, because WorldPays gateway wasnt compatible with Hs web platform. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend upholding 
Hs complaint. He said WorldPay were entitled to charge the fees under its contract with H 
and it wasnt unfair for it to do so. 
H disagreed. It said there was no real cost to WorldPay, which was profiting from its 
misfortune. H also felt that the contract was unfair and should therefore be considered 
invalid. And that WorldPays attitude of only refunding where it provided the gateway 
amounted to blackmail and discrimination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think both sides agree that its likely H has been the victim of a technique known as card-
testing. This is where fraudsters attempt a large number of low value payments with an 
online merchant to check if stolen card details are still valid or to search for valid card 
numbers. Automated bots or scripts are often used to carry out a large amount of card-
testing transactions in a very short period of time. 
The decision for me is whether its fair and reasonable for WorldPay to charge H an 
authorisation fee in these circumstances. 
First, I think its worth me setting out that Im not aware of any regulations that specifically 
require merchant acquirers to do anything to protect their customers from card-testing. Im 
also not aware of any regulations that prevent the acquirer from charging for them. 
My starting point is therefore to look at the terms of the contract between WorldPay and H. 
But Ive also considered how transactions are processed and whether its reasonable to rely 
on the contract in the specific circumstances of this case. 
The contract between WorldPay and H comprises several documents, including the 
Merchant Services Agreement (MSA), Application Form, Pricing Schedule and the 
Customer Operating Instructions. These documents collectively set out the responsibilities 
and liabilities of the parties. The first thing I have considered is whether WorldPay has 
complied with the terms of this agreement. 
WorldPay has shown me that a per transaction authorisation fee was included in Hs 
application from the very start. This was later increased to the current 4.5p per transaction in 
December 2018. Whilst I havent seen evidence that this increase was communicated to H, I 
dont think H disputes that it was aware of this fee and that it was part of its contract. Mrs Ms 
argument is rather that it is unfair to charge it in these particular circumstances.
Having examined the documentation, my conclusion is that the contract permits WorldPay to 
charge a fee for each authorisation attempt. There is no exception for card-testing. 
The MSA also says that the merchant (in this case H) is solely responsible for establishing 
and applying adequate security systems and procedures. And the merchant is responsible 
for all losses resulting from any unauthorised activity. I think this makes it clear that 
WorldPay dont accept responsibility for attacks on the security of Hs payment 
arrangements.
Mrs M has suggested that I should consider the contract as invalid as it isnt fair to both 
parties. Only a court can decide that a contract term was unfair, but in my opinion, I dont 
think its likely that a court would choose to set aside this contract, which was freely entered 
into by commercial parties and contained a transaction authorisation fee at the outset. I 
appreciate that WorldPay is a far larger enterprise than H  and that Mrs M may not have 
known anything about card-testing when H entered into the contract  but I dont think that 
makes it invalid. 
WorldPay has argued that its role occurs at the back end of processing a card transaction 
and they are therefore not the correct party to prevent card-testing. Having considered the 
life cycle of a transaction, I have some sympathy with this argument. 
H uses a third-party gateway provider to submit all payment requests to the relevant card 
company, which then authorises or declines them. WorldPay then processes the 
transactions, requesting funds from the cardholders for authorised transactions and then 
crediting Hs merchant account. WorldPay has no control over the merchants website or the 
gateway provider, so I agree that they are not the best placed to prevent or detect card-
testing attacks. I know Mrs M has said she contacted her gateway provider and was reassured that all 
security settings were correct. Im not sure exactly what questions she asked, but it seems to 
me that this doesnt necessarily mean that all possible protective measures were in place. It 
is my understanding that it isnt possible for merchants to be 100% protected from card-
testing. But it is the case that card-testers are generally exploiting some kind of vulnerability 
which makes that particular website an easier target than others. Thats not to say that H, or 
its gateway provider, has done anything wrong  simply that it might have been possible to 
do more.  
Mrs M believes WorldPay are unique in charging in these circumstances, but Im afraid that 
isnt the case. WorldPay are not the only merchant acquirer to include authorisation fees in 
their contract. Nor are they the only merchant acquirer to charge these fees for declined 
transactions, including those that look likely to stem from to card-testing. So I dont think 
WorldPays actions in this case are out of line with typical industry practice. In addition, its 
my understanding that WorldPay themselves get charged by the card providers for every 
transaction, whether its authorised or not. 
I do sympathise with Mrs M. H has been the victim of an unexpected attack on its website, 
which has left it feeling exposed and vulnerable, despite its best efforts. I understand why 
the business would like more protection from this type of attack. 
Mrs M has said WorldPay told her that if theyd been the gateway provider as well as the 
acquirer, they would have refunded the charges. I appreciate Mrs Ms frustration  since 
WorldPays system wasnt compatible with Hs website, this wasnt perhaps the most helpful 
comment WorldPay could make. But I dont think its reasonable or realistic to expect 
WorldPays gateway to be compatible with every website. I dont consider that this amounts 
to discrimination on their part. WorldPays statement is consistent with the belief that 
measures to protect from card-testing are best taken at the front end. 
In summary, Ive found that WorldPay is entitled to charge an authorisation fee for every 
transaction attempt under the terms of the agreement H signed. WorldPay, in their role as 
merchant acquirer, were responsible for processing transactions and didnt have control over 
Hs website or the gateway provider. Theres no evidence that they could have prevented the 
attacks, for which they incur a cost as well. In the absence of any error on the part of 
WorldPay, I dont consider I can reasonably require it to refund the fees.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman