DRN-2886674
The complaint
Ms E complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, didnt provide a 
refund for a broken phone she returned.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms E and I was sorry to hear about the problems she was having but 
Im afraid I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, through a 
catalogue account such as this one, it might be possible to recover the money paid through 
a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Ms E made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
If Ms Es phone was faulty then Id think it fair for the Very to take some action to fix or 
replace it for her. But here the business were denied an opportunity to identify if the phone 
was faulty because it was locked; they couldnt access it, and Ms E didnt unlock it (or 
deactivate the app) in a reasonable timeframe.
Ms E returned the phone just over a month after she received it. I think the business made 
reasonable attempts to help Ms E to demonstrate it was faulty because they referred her to 
their technical helpline and provided written guidance about how to deactivate the offending 
app in June and July 2020. 
I understand that Ms E has explained she isnt particularly proficient with IT, but I think she 
could have done more to talk to the technical helpline or to the manufacture, who Very had 
provided the number for, in order to ensure the business were able to access and assess the 
phone shed returned to them.
I also understand that Ms E had difficulty contacting Very on the phone during the pandemic 
and I understand her difficulties getting to a shop for help during a period when shops may 
have been closed or she may have been asked to stay at home. But I think Ms E was 
provided with enough information to unlock the phone so Very could review the fault. And 
even if Im wrong about that, it was almost four months before Very disposed of the phone 
and I think, in that time, it was reasonable to expect Ms E to have been able to get 
assistance from someone else who may have been more IT proficient.
At the end of May 2020 Very explained to Ms E that they may need to dispose of the phone 
if it wasnt unlocked within six weeks. I dont think that was unreasonable as they couldnt be 
expected to keep the phone forever and, regardless, they didnt actually dispose of the 
phone until much later, in September 2020.
In their final response letter to Ms E Very explained that if Ms E didnt pay for the item 
interest charges would accrue. So, I think they put Ms E on notice that the phone would still 
need to be paid for and if interest has now been charged I think thats reasonable.
Overall, Im afraid I cant agree that Very have done anything wrong here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman