DRN-4454482
The complaint
The representative for The Estate of Mrs S complains that J.P. Morgan Trustee & 
Administration Services Limited, trading as J.P. Morgan Asset Management (J.P Morgan):
- refused to reissue income distribution cheques payable to the late Mrs S once Letters of 
Administration had been obtained; and
- gave him incorrect information which led to him unnecessarily spending time collating the 
income distribution cheques that hadnt been presented for payment.  
What happened
I understand that Mrs S died in 1970. The late Mrs S held an investment that was 
subsequently taken over by J.P Morgan. Income distribution cheques in respect of the 
investment were issued, but not presented for payment, between early 1968 and 2002. It 
appears that in 2002 the investment product was converted to an open ended investment 
company (OEIC) and no further income distribution cheques were issued.
The information available shows that the previous product provider (Save and Prosper) 
contacted the late Mrs Ss husband in 1973, apparently in response to a request from him to 
reinvest the distribution payments. It explained that this would not be possible as the 
payments formed part of Mrs Ss estate. 
The late Mrs Ss husband also wrote to J.P Morgan in October 2006, regarding the 
investment the late Mrs S held with it. In the letter he asked J.P Morgan not to class his late 
wifes investment as an unclaimed asset and acknowledged that he needed to obtain 
probate and hoped to do so early in the New Year.
Unfortunately, the late Mrs Ss husband did not obtain probate and in 2021 the 
representative for the estate of Mrs S contacted J.P Morgan as he was aware that there 
were a number of distribution payment cheques that had not been presented. I understand 
that J.P Morgan told the representative that it would be able to pay the estate the value of 
the cheques.
Once the representative had obtained Letters of Administration, he sent the expired cheques 
together with a spreadsheet listing them to J.P Morgan in early 2022.
J.P Morgan then said it would not make a payment to the estate in respect of the cheques. It 
apologised for initially saying this would be possible and paid the representative £125 to 
compensate him for the time he had spent collating the cheques. It explained that unpaid 
distributions were returned to the fund after six years. 
The representative was not satisfied with J.P Morgans response and referred the matter to 
this service.
After the complaint had been referred to this service J.P Morgan told our investigator that it 
was willing to pay the representative a further £200 to compensate him for the time he had 
spent collating the cheques. 
Our investigator said he felt the offer J.P Morgan had made to pay the representative a 
further £200, in addition to the £125 it had already paid him was fair to compensate him for 
the time he had spent collating the cheques. The investigator said he didnt think J.P Morgan 
needed to do any more to resolve this aspect of the complaint.
In relation to whether J.P Morgan should honour the cheques; the investigator initially 
considered the merits of this aspect of the complaint. But as it appeared the late Mrs Ss 
husband was aware that there might be a problem with the investment by no later than 
October 2006, the investigator said he had to ask J.P Morgan for its consent to consider this 
aspect of the complaint, as it appeared it had been brought too late for this service to be able 
to consider it.
He explained that, if a business objects to this service considering a complaint, we can only 
consider the complaint if it has been referred within six years of the event complained about 
or, if later, within three years of the date the complainant ought reasonably to have known 
that they might have cause for complaint. Or, if exceptional circumstances had prevented the 
complainant from bringing a complaint any sooner.
J.P Morgan said it did not consent to this service considering this aspect of the complaint as 
it said it felt it had been brought too late for this service to be able to consider it.
The representative did not accept that the complaint about the distribution payment cheques 
had been brought too late and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. He also 
said J.P Morgan had not contacted him to offer a further £200 in connection with the time he 
had spent collating the unbanked distribution payment cheques. 
As J.P Morgan said it did not consent to this service considering the complaint, the 
investigator considered whether the complaint had been brought within the timescales this 
service must apply. Having done so he noted it was more than six years since the 
distribution payment cheques were issued. He then considered when the estate of Mrs S 
ought reasonably to have known that there might be cause for complaint.
Having done so, he said he felt that by no later than late 2006, when the late Mrs Ss 
husband had written to J.P Morgan about the investment, the estate ought reasonably to 
have known that there might be cause for complaint, particularly as the late Mrs Ss husband 
had previously contacted the previous product provider about the distribution payment 
cheques. 
He said that, under the rules this service must apply, the estate then had three years from 
this date to bring a complaint about the investment and the distribution payments if it felt J.P 
Morgan had acted incorrectly or unfairly. As a representative for the estate hadnt brought a 
complaint until 2022, over 16 years later, he said he felt the complaint had been brought too 
late for this service to be able to consider it.
He noted that this service can consider complaints referred out of time  but only if 
exceptional circumstances had prevented the complainant from bringing their complaint any 
sooner. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
distribution payments from 1968 to 2002
This service does not have the power to consider every complaint referred to us. In 
particular, the rules set by the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), 
in the Dispute Resolution Sourcebook (DISP) say:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received;
Unless a business consents, or exceptional circumstances apply, were unable to consider a 
complaint made outside these time limits.
It is not in dispute that this complaint was made more than six years after the distribution 
payment cheques were issued to the late Mrs S. The cheques in question were issued 
between 1968 and 2002. The representative brought a complaint about J.P Morgans refusal 
to pay the estate the value of these cheques in 2022, around 20 years after the most recent 
cheque had been issued. 
I must therefore consider whether the complaint was brought within three years of the date a 
representative for the estate of Mrs S knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that there 
might be cause for complaint. 
I note the representative says he only became aware that he might have cause for complaint 
in late 2021. But the test I must apply is when the estate of Mrs S ought reasonably to have 
become aware that there might be cause for complaint.
I have carefully considered the information available. Having done so I think that a 
representative of the estate ought reasonably to have become aware that it might have 
cause for complaint by no later than late 2006, when the late Mrs Ss husband wrote to J.P 
Morgan asking it not to treat his late wifes investment as an unclaimed asset. 
In reaching this view I have taken into account that the previous product provider (Save and 
Prosper) also wrote to the late Mrs Ss husband in 1973, apparently in response to a request 
from him for it to reinvest the distribution payments. It explained that this would not be 
possible as the payments formed part of Mrs Ss estate. So as early as 1973, a 
representative for the estate of Mrs S was aware there was an issue with the distribution 
payments.
In response to our investigators view the representative for the estate of Mrs S said:
My complaint is essentially in chief about the refusal to pay the dividends now that Letters of 
Administration have been obtained for my mother's estate. The refusal only happened in 
2022 - prior to this there was no apparent refusal. The exchange of two letters between my father (his letter of 30/10/2006) and JP Morgan (their letter in reply of 1/11/2006, 
acknowledging receipt of my father's letter), contained no such statement of refusal from JP 
Morgan
I appreciate the representatives position. But as I set out above, the rules I must apply allow 
three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint. The late Mrs Ss husband contacted 
the previous product provider about the distribution payments in 1973, and then contacted 
J.P Morgan in 2006, asking it not to treat the investment as an unclaimed asset. In view of 
this, I cannot reasonably agree that a representative of the estate of Mrs S was unaware that 
there might be cause for complaint about this investment before 2022.
As a representative of the estate of Mrs S did not refer a complaint about the distribution 
payments to this service until 2022, over 16 years after the second time a representative had 
contacted the product provider with concerns about the investment, and as the 
representative has not provided anything to show that exceptional circumstances prevented 
a representative of the estate of Mrs S from bringing a complaint any sooner, my decision is 
that this aspect of the complaint has been brought too late for this service to be able to 
consider it.
I do understand that this is not the decision the representative was hoping for, but as I set 
out above, this service does not have the power to investigate complaints referred to us 
outside the timescales we must apply, unless the business consents.
time spent by representative collating distribution payment cheques
In response to the investigators view the representative said J.P Morgan had not contacted 
him to offer to pay him a further £200, for the time he had spent collating the distribution 
payment cheques.
I apologise if there was any confusion caused by this service on this point. I can see from the 
information we have in relation to this complaint that J.P Morgan told this service that it 
wanted to offer the representative a further £200 in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
I think J.P Morgans offer to pay the representative a total of £325 for the time he spent 
collating the distribution payment cheques is fair and I simply leave it to the representative to 
decide if he now wishes to accept this offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I think the redress J.P. Morgan Trustee & Administration Services 
Limited, trading as J.P. Morgan Asset Management, has offered to pay the representative for 
the time he spent collating the distribution payment cheques is fair.
I dont think it needs to do any more to resolve this aspect of the complaint I simply leave it 
to the representative to decide if he now wishes to accept the addition £200 J.P Morgan has 
offered to pay him, in addition to the £125 it has already paid him.
In relation to the aspect of the complaint relating to whether J.P Morgan should pay the 
estate the value of the distribution payment cheques, as I have set out above, this aspect of 
the complaint has been brought too late for this service to be able to consider it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman