DRN-4158678
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with several aspects of the service hes received from The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) surrounding a request to recall money paid into an incorrect account.
 What happened
A friend of Mr B (The Friend) set up a standing order to pay £500 to Mr B on a monthly 
basis. However, the standing order was set up incorrectly, meaning that an unknown third-
party (The TP) received the money into their account. Over several years, this resulted in 
approximately £30,000 being incorrectly transferred from the Friend to the TP.
When it came to light that the money hadnt been received by Mr B, the Friend and Mr B 
approached their respective banks to try to recall the money from the TP. The Friends bank 
did complete a partial recall, but approximately £12,000 remained unrecovered. Mr B and 
the Friend continued to request assistance from their banks, but ultimately, they had to 
initiate Court proceedings against the TP to recover the remaining money  even though the 
TP, who also banked with RBS, had engaged with RBS and was actively trying to return it.
Mr B previously raised a complaint against RBS on the basis that they hadnt acted to refund 
the £12,000 that had remained with the TP after the partial recall was affected by the 
Friends bank. This prior complaint was considered by this service in 2020, at which time one 
of our investigators put forward a view of that complaint whereby they didnt feel that RBS 
had acted unfairly towards Mr B.  
However, sometime after the closure of that earlier complaint, Mr B raised a new complaint 
with RBS because he was unhappy with how RBS had handled the ongoing situation, 
including that they hadnt acted on his request for RBS to request the return of the 
outstanding money from the TP before Court proceedings were initiated.
RBS responded to Mr B and said they felt that Mr Bs ongoing complaint was a duplicate of 
his earlier complaint. And given that the earlier complaint had been responded to by RBS 
and then referred to this service by Mr B in 2020, RBS didnt feel that they were obliged to 
investigate or respond to MR Bs ongoing complaint further. Mr B wasnt happy with RBSs 
response, so he referred his further complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Bs further complaint. But they noted that much of what 
Mr B complained about was outside the remit of what this service is permitted to consider, 
and they didnt feel that RBS had acted unfairly towards Mr B in regard to the narrow aspect 
of his complaint that was within the scope of what this service could look at. Mr B remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that RBS have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr B has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr B for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr B notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr B and RBS. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
It's notable that the events under consideration here include three individuals  the Friend, 
the TP, and Mr B himself  along with two banks  RBS as the receiving bank and the third-
party bank of the Friend from where the money was sent.
Im aware that Mr B is frustrated by what he sees as this service failing to consider all 
aspects of his complaint. But I can only reiterate what our investigator has explained to Mr B 
about the remit of this service  which is that we can only consider the actions of the party 
being complained about (RBS) in regard to the party bringing the complaint (Mr B).
This means that Im unable to consider any aspect of this complaint regarding actions or 
inactions that dont directly involve RBS in regard to Mr B. Similarly, I also cant consider any 
aspects of this complaint which have been previously investigated by this service. 
I realise that this may continue to be a frustration to Mr B. But the remit of this service is 
defined and provided by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook. And the remit as given to this service by the DISP section of the 
FCA Handbook is very strict, and we have no authority to act beyond it. 
As such, given the relatively wide nature of this complaint and the relatively narrow remit of 
this service, it may be the case that this service is simply unable to consider Mr Bs 
complaint in the manner that he would like.
However, there are some aspects of Mr Bs complaint which do fall within the remit of what 
this service can consider. Specifically, that when Mr B asked RBS to contact the TP  who is 
also a customer of RBS  and request the return of the outstanding £12,000 from the TP 
before the Friend initiated Court proceedings against them, that RBS chose not to act on    
Mr Bs request. 
But the responsibility for requesting mistakenly sent funds lies with the sending bank  which 
was the Friends bank and not RBS. And given that Mr B wasnt either the sender of the 
money or the actual recipient of it, he had no role to play in the recovery of the sent money. 
And this is regardless of Mr Bs status as being the intended recipient of that money. Additionally, theres no expectation or obligation on RBS to pass messages between its 
customers  even in circumstances such as this. And I can only reiterate that it was the 
responsibility of the Friends bank  the bank from where the money was mistakenly sent  
to have pursued the recovery of the money at the Friends instruction. 
Finally, Mr B notes that the Friend incurred Court costs which he feels could have been 
avoided had RBS contacted the TP as he asked them to. And Mr B feels that, because these 
costs were incurred because of RBSs inactions, and because Mr B reimbursed the costs 
incurred by the Friend to the Friend, RBS should therefore reimburse these costs to himself. 
But as explained above, I dont feel that RBS should be considered to have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not contacting the TP at Mr Bs request as Mr B suggests. And I also dont 
accept that Mr B has incurred these costs. Rather, it seems clear that the Friend incurred the 
Court costs, and I feel that any decision that Mr B made to reimburse the amount of the 
costs to the Friend is a private matter between Mr B and the Friend. As such, even if I did 
feel that an unfair outcome had occurred here  which I dont  I wouldnt consider it fair or 
reasonable to instruct RBS to cover the costs incurred by the Friend which Mr B has taken 
on himself as a private matter.    
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any further action. I hope Mr B 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman