DRN-3637211
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (trading as Santander Consumer Finance). 
He also complains that the car was misrepresented to him.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr R took out a conditional sale agreement with Santander for a used car. The 
car was just under five and a half years old and had travelled approximately 36,652 miles. 
The cash price was £7,520. Mr R agreed to pay £3,000 in advance, followed by 36 monthly 
repayments.  
Mr R says the dealer told him this was a family car, but he discovered it was classed as a 
sports car when he applied for insurance. He says the dealer also told him hed be the 
second owner, but he later found out he was the fifth person to have the car. 
Mr R says that around the end of March 2022 a dashboard warning came on while he was 
driving, saying the oil pressure had dropped to 51%. He arranged for the car to be recovered 
to a local garage for diagnosis of the problem. 
The garage sent Mr R a video explaining what theyd found. The mechanic said the engine 
needed to be replaced - and that a replacement turbo was also likely to be needed. Mr R 
says the garage told him these repairs were likely to cost more than £6,000.
Mr R complained to Santander that he was reliant on the car for regular hospital visits and 
that he couldnt afford such an expensive repair. Santander didnt uphold his complaint. They 
said that, as the fault hadnt occurred within the first six months of the agreement, hed need 
to provide evidence showing this was an inherent issue when the car was supplied to him. 
Dissatisfied, Mr R brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator said he hadnt seen enough evidence of how the dealer described the car to 
be able to say whether it had been misrepresented to Mr R. But he didnt think the car had 
been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, because it hadnt been reasonably durable. 
He felt it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to insist Santander carried out repairs due to the 
cost involved. So instead, he thought Mr R should be able to reject the car.
The investigator said Santander should end the agreement and collect the car, with nothing 
further for Mr R to pay. And he said they should refund Mr Rs deposit and all rentals hed 
paid since the end of March 2022, when hed stopped using the car. 
The investigator thought Santander should pay Mr R £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused due to the car being faulty, and that they should remove 
any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Rs credit file. 
Santander didnt agree that a fault found after 21,317 miles and ten months showed there 
was an inherent issue with the car when it was supplied. They said it was Mr Rs 
responsibility to show the fault had been present when the car was supplied to him, and this 
hadnt happened. 
Santander said they felt the mileage travelled was more relevant than the length of time Mr 
R had the car. They said that the car had covered roughly the same mileage as an average 
user would cover in three years  and so they found it difficult to accept a conclusion that the 
vehicle wasnt sufficiently durable. They asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mr Rs concerns about Santander.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the 
relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, 
mileage, and history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was more than five years old and had covered 
around 36,652 miles when it was supplied to Mr R. It cost £7,520, which represents a 
significant reduction on what the car wouldve cost new. I dont think a reasonable person 
would have the same standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. 
I dont think a buyer would expect the car to be in perfect condition - I think theyd probably 
expect some parts of the car to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But I do think theyd still 
expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be 
able to drive the car for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
Ive seen a copy of the video the garage sent to Mr R. The mechanic said:
We have come to the conclusion that your vehicle does require a new engine and 
possibly a new turbo as I imagine the turbo wont be in good order. 
So, Im satisfied that theres a significant fault with the car. Santander say this doesnt mean 
the car wasnt sufficiently durable when they supplied it to Mr R, ten months earlier. They 
say he hasnt provided evidence that this was an inherent fault. Ive considered the points 
theyve made. I bear in mind that this car cost £7,520. And Mr R has provided pictures of the service history 
booklet showing the car had been regularly serviced since it was new  sometimes more 
frequently than the manufacturers recommended service intervals. So, I think he was 
entitled to expect the engine to last for a reasonable period of time.
But Mr R told us the car had only travelled around 56,000 miles when the engine failed. And 
Im satisfied a reasonable person would have expected the engine to last significantly longer 
than this  particularly given its service history. For these reasons, I dont consider the car to 
have been sufficiently durable. I dont consider any further evidence to be necessary here. It 
follows that I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied.
Santander feel more weight should be given to the relatively high mileage the car had 
travelled during the ten months Mr R had it. The evidence Ive seen shows the car had 
covered around 20,000 miles in this time. Although I accept this is more than an average 
consumer would typically travel in ten months, I dont consider it to be excessive. And this 
doesnt change my decision, because I wouldnt expect the engine to fail after this amount of 
mileage.
All things considered, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to     
Mr R because it wasnt sufficiently durable. 
Was the car misrepresented or misdescribed to Mr R?
Mr R says the dealer told him this was a family car  and that hed be the second owner. He 
says he later discovered these things werent true. 
Id consider the car to have been misrepresented if Mr R was told false statement(s) of fact 
about the car, which led him to enter into the agreement when he otherwise wouldnt have. 
Ive also thought about whether the car was misdescribed to Mr R. 
I havent seen any supporting evidence to confirm what the dealer told Mr R about the car. 
But I dont find it necessary to make a decision about whether the car was in fact 
misrepresented or misdescribed to him, because it wouldnt change what I think is the right 
outcome in this case - or what I think Santander should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Although the CRA gives Mr R a right to have the car repaired, it goes on to say that he cant 
require Santander to do this if the cost of a repair would be disproportionate, taking into 
account the cars value. Im satisfied this would be the case here, given the figures involved. 
For that reason, I think Mr R should now be given the right to reject it. This means the 
agreement will come to an end with nothing further for Mr R to pay, and his £3,000 deposit 
should be refunded.
Mr R told us he hasnt been able to use the car since the end of March 2022, when the 
engine failed.  He says that, as a pensioner, having to pay for taxis has put a strain on his 
finances. He says he had to cancel the direct debit payments to Santander for this reason. 
So, I think its fair for Santander to refund the payments Mr R has made since 31 March 
2022 to reflect his loss of use of the car, and to remove any adverse information from his 
credit file about this agreement. 
I think Mr R has been caused additional distress and inconvenience because he was 
supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. He had to arrange for the car to be 
recovered to the dealer to find out what was wrong with it. Hes explained that he and his wife have health conditions that limit their mobility - and that they relied on the car to get to 
their regular medical appointments. Although he hasnt told us that any appointments were 
missed due to the problems with the car, I think it would be more inconvenient for him to 
have to arrange a taxi each time. 
Having thought about all of this, I think Santander should pay Mr R £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc (trading as Santander Consumer Finance) to:
Collect the car and end the finance agreement, at no further cost to Mr R. 
Refund the £3,000 deposit Mr R paid.
Refund the amount Mr R paid under the agreement since 31 March 2022.
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Pay Mr R £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Rs credit file. 
If Santander consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr R how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr R a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman