DRN-3257934
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the repair carried out by Lloyds Bank General Insurance following a 
claim on her home insurance. 
What happened
Mrs T had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by Lloyds. In April 2021 she made 
a claim following a leak from a pipe under her driveway. Lloyds engineer attended and 
identified the leak. They replaced the damaged section of pipe and checked for any further 
leaks but were satisfied the problem had been resolved.
Following the repair, Mrs T contacted Lloyds as she thought the whole pipe under her drive 
would be replaced and was unhappy that it hadnt been. She subsequently made a 
complaint. She said she had been led to believe it would be replaced by Lloyds advisors in 
phone calls throughout the claim. And she said if she had known it wouldnt, she would have 
claimed on a home emergency policy she had with a different provider instead as the excess 
was lower.
Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint. It said the policy only provides cover for repairing the 
damaged part of the pipe and not a full replacement. And it didnt agree its advisors had 
given Mrs T incorrect information about this in any of the calls during the claim.
Mrs T didnt think this was fair. She said when she had called the local water authority when 
shed identified the leak, it had said shed likely need to replace the whole pipe. And she 
didnt think it was fair that Lloyds hadnt provided this under the policy. She brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said she agreed Lloyds had given Mrs T correct information about what was covered under 
the policy. However she noted comments from the engineer following the repair that said 
another leak was likely. Based on this she thought that in order to ensure the repair to the 
pipe was effective and long lasting, a full replacement should have been carried out. She 
therefore recommended Lloyds replace the pipe under the driveway. She also said it should 
investigate a patch of mould in Mrs Ts home to see if there is a valid claim under the policy. 
Mrs T accepted our investigators opinion however Lloyds didnt. It said that by replacing the 
whole pipe itd be putting Mrs T in a better position than she had been before the claim. And 
it didnt think it was a proportionate response to replace the whole pipe when there was no 
guarantee when the rest might fail, so it didnt agree replacing the damaged part wasnt an 
effective and long lasting repair. Lloyds asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ts policy states as follows:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is damaged
So Lloyds obligation under the policy is to identify the problem and carry out a repair to the 
damaged part. As this is what it has done, I understand why it doesnt think it should do 
anything further. 
However, when considering a complaint I need to not only consider whats covered under 
the policy, but also whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
When an insurer carries out a repair this service thinks its fair and reasonable that it should 
be both effective and long lasting. This means that not only should the repair effectively put 
things right  so here, fix the leak. But it should also last an appropriate amount of time, 
based on what it is that has been repaired. So here, wed expect the pipe to be repaired and 
last for many years after that to say it had been effective and long lasting.  
The engineer that attended to carry out the fix produced a report that stated:
a water leak on your system will act as a pressure release. When a leak has been 
successfully repaired, the overall pressure in the system will be sustained, and in turn 
increased pressure will be put onto the next weakest point. It is common for additional leaks 
to appear after a leak has been repaired
So this suggests that while the damage has been repaired, the fix is likely to cause further 
problems and subsequent leaks. 
Lloyds has said that this comment has to be considered in the wider context of the claim. 
And that the pipe itself is over 80 years old so would naturally be deteriorating and will 
continue to do so. And due to its age its likely to have thinner walls which will make a further 
leak more likely, but that this is due to its age and not the repair. 
Ive considered this and I think whether the repair will be long-lasting needs to be considered 
in the wider context as well. And if the age of the pipe means that a repair to any part of it 
might cause greater damage to the remaining pipe, then that makes it more likely that extra 
work will be required in order for the repair to be long lasting. But this doesnt mean a long 
lasting repair shouldnt be carried out. 
Lloyds has also said that its impossible to know whether the pipe would continue without 
fault for years after the fix, and it may not be until far into the future that further problems 
develop. 
The engineers report says that due to the increased pressure, there are likely to be leaks 
from the next weakest point. And Lloyds has said that the pipe is 80 years old which means 
it has thinning walls and age related damage. So when I considered these comments 
together, it seems most likely that the repair wont be long lasting as there are likely to be a 
number of other weak points in the pipe that the engineer has said will be impacted by the 
repair.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Lloyds should replace the pipe under 
Mrs Ts driveway, in order to achieve an effective and long lasting repair.
I note Mrs T has also said shed like Lloyds to inspect a patch of mould in her hallway, which 
may be related to the leaking pipe. But she didnt want this to be looked at until after the pipe 
was fixed. Mrs T is entitled to bring this as a separate claim on the policy and Id expect Lloyds to consider it in line with the policy terms and conditions. However as this didnt form 
part of her original complaint, any concerns related to the patch of mould would need to be 
raised with Lloyds first before this service could consider them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to replace the pipe under Mrs Ts driveway or cover the cost to Mrs T of 
having the work done herself. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman