DRN-3539043
The complaint
Mr K complains about the support he received from Nationwide Building Society at the end 
of a COVID-19 payment deferral on a personal loan. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both Mr K and Nationwide. I wont repeat in 
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr K had a personal loan with Nationwide since June 2019. In April 2020 he asked 
Nationwide for a COVID-19 payment deferral. This meant that for 3 months, interest would 
continue to accrue on the loan account - but he wouldnt be obliged to resume his 
contractual repayments until the end of the 3 month period. 
Nationwide contacted Mr K in July 2020 to let him know that he needed to get in touch with 
them to discuss what would happen next and his direct debit payments restarted in August 
2020. In September and October 2020 Nationwide contacted Mr K by post and phone to say 
his account was now in arrears. Nationwide say a family member told them Mr K was 
abroad.
Mr K then spoke with Nationwide on 15 and 20 October. Nationwide said theyd need to 
complete an affordability assessment if Mr K wanted to reschedule his loan. Mr K said he 
didnt have a guaranteed income at that time and was relying on friends and family. 
Nationwide added a temporary freeze to the account to allow Mr K time to consider his 
options. 
No further contact was received and Nationwide sent a default notice on 25 November 2020. 
As the arrears werent cleared by the deadline given, a default was later reported and the 
account passed to a third-party collection agency in January 2021.
Mr K complained to Nationwide but they didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy, Mr K referred 
his complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. As Mr K didnt accept her findings, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction or communication between both parties here  only the key ones. 
However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at 
my decision.
Mr K has made reference to what other businesses have done at the end of COVID-19 
payment deferrals, but my decision isnt concerned with that. Im only considering the actions 
of Nationwide here. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im reasonably satisfied that Nationwide made it clear what would 
happen at the end of the COVID-19 payment deferral both at the time he requested it and 
also what actions Mr K needed to take when it ended. 
Mr K has said he was out of the country from August 2020 onwards so wouldnt have seen 
any post sent to him from around that time. But I find that a reasonable level of responsibility 
rested with Mr K to ensure hed taken reasonable steps to be aware of important information 
related to the account. For example (but not limited to) - having a family member forward or 
open his post. Im not persuaded by Mr Ks argument that GDPR reasons meant nobody 
else should open his post - as Mr K authorising them to do so wouldnt constitute a breach. 
Like Ive said, he could alternatively have arranged for post to be forwarded to his address 
abroad. 
As Mr K didnt return the required paperwork or contact Nationwide before the end of the 
deferred period, Mr Ks normal monthly repayments by direct debit resumed from August 
2020. This was an automated process and I dont find Nationwide have acted unfairly in 
doing so. 
They then correctly made Mr K aware of the arrears that were starting to accrue. When Mr K 
did make contact with Nationwide in October 2020, his preferred option was to add the 
arrears to the end of the loan - by extending the loan repayment period. Nationwide 
explained that in order to consider this option theyd need to carry out an affordability 
assessment. But Mr K didnt engage fully with this assessment - based on his financial 
circumstances at that time. 
Ive then considered the Financial Conduct Authority (The FCA) guidance on what 
businesses should so at the end of a COVID-19 payment deferral. The relevant guidance 
says businesses should offer tailored support at the end of the deferred period. But in order 
to provide tailored support, a business needs a fair understanding of their customers 
financial situation. As Mr K had told Nationwide he had no income and was relying on friends 
and family for financial support - the options Nationwide could responsibly offer were very 
limited. They also advised Mr K about looking into benefits he might be eligible for. A 
temporary freeze was applied to the account to allow Mr K some breathing space and I 
consider this fair. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence that Mr K then engaged further with Nationwide after this 
point until a notice of default was sent to him on 25 November 2020. 
Ive noted Mr Ks point about a family member paying off the arrears in March 2021 in 
branch, but by this point the loan had been defaulted and been referred to a third party 
collections agency There is also reference to an attempted payment not going through 
around the end of 2020, but as our investigator has said - Id have reasonably expected Mr K 
to query this with Nationwide much sooner if this was the case. Nationwide have a duty to 
accurately report the standing of their customers accounts to the credit reference agencies 
and I dont find theyve acted wrongly here in doing so.
Mr K has made a number of points about the actions of the third party business that 
subsequently were dealing with the debt. But my decision only concerns the actions of 
Nationwide and not the third party here. Summary
Im satisfied that Nationwide have treated Mr K fairly, reasonably and supportively here. Mr K 
was made aware that the payment deferral period was ending but didnt take the necessary 
actions to either have the loan rescheduled or agree an alternative arrangement with 
Nationwide to reduce the arrears. 
Even after October 2020 when he was fully aware of what was happening, he didnt fully 
engage with Nationwide to find a suitable, agreed way forward. Nationwide couldnt fairly 
offer responsible, alternative options without having a good understanding of Mr Ks financial 
situation and affordability. 
My decision will disappoint Mr K, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve this dispute between him and Nationwide.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman