DRN-2618856
The complaint
Ms S says Scottish Widows Limited wrongly told her rental income couldnt be treated as
income for the purpose of contributions to her pension plan. Ms S says her contributions
were lower than they wouldve been if shed had correct information from Scottish Widows.
What happened
Ms S started a stakeholder pension with Scottish Widows in May 2019. She says the
business told her that rent from her investment property couldnt be treated as income for the
purpose of maximum contributions. It told her that because she wasnt working, annual
contributions were capped at £3,600 (including tax relief).
Ms S later discovered the information was incorrect, and that rental income could be treated
as income for contribution purposes. On this basis her maximum annual contributions were
the lower of total income or £40,000.
Ms S said she wouldve paid more into her pension plan if shed been given the correct
information.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt find there was enough evidence to
show that Ms S mentioned the rental income when she contacted Scottish Widows for help
completing the pension application form. So she wasnt persuaded that Scottish Widows had
given Ms S information that was wrong.
In addition, the investigator noted that Ms S hadnt increased her contributions once shed
found out that it was possible to do so. So the investigator thought it was unlikely Ms S
wouldve done anything different, even if shed known that she could pay more.
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, and maintained that Scottish Widows
had given her information that was wrong. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 26 January 2021, and said that Id 
provisionally decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ive summarised my provisional 
findings below:
Ms S contacted Scottish Widows about starting a pension in the spring of 2019. Her 
plan was set up in May, and she made monthly contributions of £240.
Ms S contacted Scottish Widows about her plan several times in the autumn of 2019. 
She wanted to monitor progress, and to understand how her plan was performing.
One of those calls was after shed received her first statement for the plan. She 
wanted to understand the statement, and had a lengthy phone call with one of 
Scottish Widows advisers. It was during that call that she discovered she couldve 
paid higher contributions to her plan.
Ms S said several times during the call that shed mentioned the rental income to 
Scottish Widows at that outset, and been told it couldnt be treated as income for 
contribution purposes. As she wasnt working, Scottish Widows told her the 
maximum annual contribution she could make, including tax relief, was £3,600.
It was during the longer call about her statement that the adviser told her this was 
wrong. Ms S said she wouldve made higher contributions if shed had the correct 
information.
Id listened to all the available calls, and also reviewed Scottish Widows call notes.  
Ms S contacted Scottish Widows in March 2019 for general guidance on setting up a
pension. Scottish Widows notes said:
Contributing  240p/m Employment status  Employed (Landlord, has been told 
rental property doesnt count as income).
Following this discussion, Scottish Widows sent an application form to Ms S to 
complete. She contacted Scottish Widows again for help to complete the form. I 
accept that Ms Ss rental income wasnt mentioned during that call. But I didnt think 
that was unreasonable. From what Id seen and been told, on balance I thought it 
was likely that when Ms S first contacted Scottish Widows, it told her rental income 
couldnt be treated as income for contribution purposes. So when she was 
completing the application form, Ms S was already under the impression that she 
could only contribute £240 per month. Shed already taken guidance from Scottish 
Widows, so I wouldnt have expected her to raise the rental income point again.
When Ms S was discussing the matter during her later, longer, call with Scottish 
Widows, the adviser on that call also read the case notes and indicated that the 
information Ms S had been given at the outset was wrong.
So I was satisfied that the information given by Scottish Widows about Ms Ss 
maximum contributions was wrong. 
But I considered what was likely to have happened if Scottish Widows had given her 
the correct details about maximum contributions.
I was mindful that when Ms S discovered she could pay more into her pension, she 
asked Scottish Widows to send her revised illustrations showing what her plan could 
be worth if she paid an additional £30 or £60 per month. Neither Ms S or Scottish 
Widows had provided anything to show that Ms S had increased her monthly 
contributions.
So even if Ms S had been given correct information by Scottish Widows at the outset, 
I didnt think I could safely say that she wouldve made higher contributions to her 
plan.
For that reason, I didnt consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Scottish 
Widows to make additional contributions to Ms Ss plan to cover the higher 
contributions she says she wouldve made.
But I thought it would be reasonable for Scottish Widows to pay a small
amount of compensation to Ms S for the trouble and upset caused by the information 
that was wrong. I considered £100 to be a fair amount.Ms S responded to say that she has now increased contributions to her pension plan.
Scottish Widows said it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional decision, 
and that it had paid the suggested compensation to Ms S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has provided evidence to show that since January 2021 shes increased the 
contributions to her plan. 
But even though Ms Ss contributions have now increased, Im still not persuaded that this 
means her complaint should be fully upheld. Thats because if I were to conclude that 
Scottish Widows should pay the higher contributions Ms S originally referred to, I would need 
to be satisfied that Ms S wouldve paid more into her plan if shed had correct information at 
the outset.
But it remains the case that Ms S didnt increase her contributions when she found out she 
could do so in the autumn of 2019. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that she wouldve paid 
higher contributions to her plan if Scottish Widows had given her correct information about 
contribution limits when she first set up her plan. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Scottish Widows should pay £100 to Ms S but I wont be asking it 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Scottish Widows Limited to pay 
£100 to Ms S if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman