DRN-4214730
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that AIG Life Limited declined to pay the claim he made on his critical 
illness policy following his diagnosis with multiple sclerosis.  And he says AIG delayed in 
making that decision.
What happened
In summer 2019, Mr B applied for a life and critical illness policy with AIG.  Initially, AIG 
deferred their decision so they could verify some medical information.  The policy 
commenced after this was completed.  It provides £600,000 worth of cover.
In spring 2021, Mr B notified AIG hed been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis.   As this is a 
critical illness for which he could claim on the policy, Mr B submitted a claim to AIG.
AIG requested medical evidence from Mr Bs GP and specialist to help them assess the 
claim.  After several months, they decided they needed to obtain information held by another 
insurer with whom Mr B also held a policy.  Mr B declined consent for this.  After several 
more months, AIG declined the claim, as they said theyd not received enough information to 
allow them to consider it.
Mr B complained to AIG.  AIG didnt change their position.  So Mr B brought his complaint to 
our service.  Our investigator considered it and concluded it was reasonable for AIG to 
decide they needed more information to assess the claim.  This was in line with the policy 
terms.  But she said theyd taken too long to tell Mr B their decision and should pay him £250 
compensation for the delay.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint  but only insofar as it relates to delay by 
AIG in reaching a decision on his claim.  Ill explain why.
When someone makes a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on them to provide 
evidence  either personally or by giving consent for a third party to provide it  to support 
the claim.  The insurer then reviews that information to establish whether or not the claim 
meets the policy terms.  If it does, it should pay the claim.  If theres some reason why it 
doesnt  for example, a condition doesnt meet the policy definition, or is excluded  the 
insurer should explain this to the customer when they decline the claim.
I can see that, in this case, Mr B submitted his claim to AIG in spring 2021.  He provided 
consent for AIG to request medical records from his GP and consultant.  These were 
provided.  
The terms of Mr Bs policy document say:
If the person claiming, the owner of the cover or the person covered does not give us the 
evidence we ask for, or the information they do give us is inaccurate or incomplete, we 
reserve the right to decline a claim or stop paying one.
AIG say they need more evidence from another insurer before making a decision.  Mr B has 
refused consent for them to approach that insurer.  He says AIG have all they need to make 
a decision and its unreasonable theyve not done so.  AIG dont agree.  
Ive thought very carefully about this.  I can see from the evidence provided Mr B has critical 
illness policies with two other providers  who Ill call Insurer 2 and Insurer 3.  He consented 
to AIG and Insurer 2 sharing information.  But hes refused to allow AIG and Insurer 3 to do 
the same.
Insurers shouldnt ask for wide reaching medical evidence without good reason.  But I dont 
think AIG have done that.  They knew about the claim with Insurer 3, because Insurer 3 told 
them about it towards the end of 2020.  The two claims were made within a few months of 
each other  so its reasonable to suppose they related to the same condition.  
AIG told Mr B theyd received Insurer 3s request to share medical evidence in autumn 2022.  
And in March 2023, they told him the claim couldnt proceed without his consent to share 
information with Insurer 3.
Mr B is entitled to refuse his consent to AIG and Insurer 3 sharing information.  But I think its 
reasonable, having been told about another claim, for AIG to want to review the evidence 
provided to Insurer 3  and to share what they received in relation to Mr Bs claim on their 
policy.  Im satisfied theyve told Mr B they want to do this  and made him aware of what 
their decision would be if they couldnt.   
Id expect AIG to reassess the claim if Mr B consents to them obtaining that information from 
Insurer 3 in future.  But, as things stand, I dont think they need to do any more to resolve Mr 
Bs complaint that AIG have declined his claim.
But I do think AIG could have reached that conclusion quicker.  They asked for Mr Bs 
consent to information sharing at the end of September.  Mr B declined consent promptly.  
But it was about eight months before AIG confirmed they were declining the claim because 
they didnt have all the information they thought they needed to consider it.  I dont think 
thats reasonable.   
Putting things right
Because I think it was reasonable for AIG to decline the claim, I dont think they need to do 
anything to put right that part of Mr Bs complaint.  But I do think they should compensate 
him for the delay Ive identified in communicating that decision.  Our investigator thought 
£250 was a fair sum to compensate for that delay.
I agree with that assessment.  I think £250 is a reasonable amount of compensation to 
recognise Mr Bs frustrations at not receiving AIGs decision and for having to chase them to 
keep him up to date.  For the sake of clarity, the award is just in relation to the delay and isnt 
intended to address Mr Bs undoubted distress at the decision AIG made  which, as Ive 
said, I think was reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about AIG Life Limited and 
directing AIG to pay him £250 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman