DRN-4258345
The complaint
Mr C and Ms M complain that Starling Bank Limited wont refund all the money theyve lost 
to a rogue trader scam.
Whats happened?
A company, which Ill refer to as T, responded to Mr C and Ms Ms online request for 
quotations in respect of building works to their property. Mr C and Ms M say that T was 
properly registered and active on Companies House, its website looked professional, and Ts 
Director appeared to be genuine and credible. The cost of the required works was agreed, 
and Mr C and Ms M made an initial payment so that work could begin. Over time, T 
requested further payments so that work could continue. The table below sets out all the 
payments Mr C and Ms M made to T:
Date of payment Amount of payment
8 October 2020 £10,000
19 October 2020 £5,000
19 October 2020 £10,000
18 November 2020 £1,750
25 March 2021 £11,000
Mr C and Ms M say that eventually, it became clear that T didnt intend to complete the 
agreed work on their property or refund the payments theyd made. They reported the matter 
to Starling in November 2021. They said that T has left their property in a worse state than it 
was in before building works were instructed, and theyve had to pay someone else to sort 
out the mess T has left. They asked Starling to reimburse the money they paid T.
Starling declined to reimburse Mr C and Ms M. It said that this matter is a civil dispute 
between them and T, not an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam covered by the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). Starling acknowledged 
that Mr C and Ms M didnt receive all the goods and services they paid for but said that 
building works did begin, and they did receive a partial service. The bank said that T is in 
liquidation and Mr C and Ms M should seek recovery via that route.
Mr C and Ms M referred a complaint about Starling to this Service. They said that T was 
operating fraudulently and was not a legitimate supplier. Ts Director was arrested in late 
2021 and has defrauded lots of other people in a similar way. Ts liquidators have confirmed 
that there are no funds to redistribute amongst Ts creditors.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator upheld Mr C and Ms Ms complaint. She found that theyd been the victims 
of a scam and said they should be fully refunded under the provisions of the CRM Code.
Starling didnt accept our investigators findings. The bank maintained that this case isnt 
covered by the CRM Code because Mr C and Ms M have not fallen victim to a scam. It said 
that work began on their property and some work was actually completed (a new boiler was 
installed at a cost of £1,750 and a flat roof was repaired at a cost of £1,000). Nevertheless, 
Starling offered to refund 50% of Mr C and Ms Ms losses in an effort to resolve matters.
Mr C and Ms M declined Starlings offer. They said:
They didnt receive 50% of the goods and services they paid for.
They would agree to a reduction of £1,750 because the new boiler they paid for was 
installed (albeit late).
The repair of the flat roof took a long time to complete and that has led to rain 
damage to their property. The work was also not completed to a satisfactory standard 
(tiles are already falling off the roof).
Starling asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 15 June 2023. Ill set out my findings below.
Starling has signed up to the CRM Code, and it was in force when Mr C and Ms M paid T. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
has been the victim of an APP scam. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply 
to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Starling has argued that this matter is a civil dispute which is not covered by the CRM Code. 
But, having reviewed all the evidence weve received in this case and others weve handled 
involving money paid to T, Im persuaded that Mr C and Ms M have fallen victim to an APP 
scam.
It is not in dispute that T is a registered business. But the key question here is, what was Ts 
intention when it persuaded Mr C and Ms M to pay money to it? If the intention was to obtain 
money by deception, and this deception is what induced Mr C and Ms M to hand money 
over, this would constitute a scam.
This Service has received evidence from various bodies confirming that T was operating a 
scam. The evidence Ive seen from Mr C and Ms M persuades me that theyve fallen victim 
to the scam. I acknowledge that T attended their property to carry out some work, and that 
a new boiler was installed, but it isnt unusual for fraudsters operating this type of scam to do 
some work in order to keep the scam alive and obtain more money from their victims. Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen that, apart from the installation of a new boiler, none of the 
work Mr C and Ms M paid T for was completed to a satisfactory standard and T caused 
further damage to their property (which I wouldnt expect a legitimate builder to do).
Overall, Im satisfied that T set out to defraud Mr C and Ms M, with no intention of completing 
the agreed works to a satisfactory standard. So, I dont think DS2(2)(b) applies here.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Starling hasnt argued that any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply here, and I dont think they do. For example, I havent seen any evidence that the bank provided effective warnings in this case, and I 
agree with the bank that Mr C and Ms M had a reasonable basis for belief when they paid T.
So, Starling shouldve reimbursed Mr C and Ms M under the provisions of the CRM Code, 
and Ive provisionally decided that it should reimburse all the payments they made to T now 
 apart from the £1,750 they paid for the installation of a new boiler. From what Ive seen, 
this is the only work Mr C and Ms M paid for that was completed to a satisfactory standard 
and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require the bank to reimburse them for the 
goods and services they received. In addition, I cannot conclude that T set out to defraud Mr 
C and Ms M when it requested this particular payment given that T carried out the work that 
was paid for (albeit late).
Starling should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date that Mr C 
and Ms M shouldve been refunded under the CRM Code to the date of settlement, to 
compensate Mr C and Ms M for not having their money available to spend on other things 
during this time.
Mr C and Ms M have found themselves in an unenviable situation  theyve been left without 
funds to carry out essential building works on their property, and their property has fallen into 
further disrepair as a result. Theyve explained how stressful this situation has been for them 
over a protracted period. I am mindful that their loss was ultimately caused by the callous 
acts of a fraudster. But, if Starling had reimbursed them under the provisions of the CRM 
Code when it ought to have done, then much of the trouble and upset theyve experienced 
could have been avoided. For this reason, I am satisfied that a further award of £300 for 
trouble and upset is appropriate in the circumstances.
Finally, I will cover off the additional points Starling has raised in responding to our 
investigators findings.
Starling has said that, if it had given Mr C and Ms M effective warnings and/or stopped the 
payments to T for further checks, they wouldve made the transactions anyway because they 
were paying a legitimate business which they had no suspicions about at the time. The bank 
has also said that Mr C and Ms M continued to pay T despite the delays and broken 
promises they experienced, so they should bear some responsibility for their loss. I dont 
believe these points to be relevant to the outcome of this case. The CRM Code requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have fallen victim to an APP scam unless a permitted 
exception to reimbursement applies. In this case, I am satisfied that there are no applicable 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement.
Starling has also raised a concern that Mr C and Ms M may recover some or all of their 
money through the liquidation process, but I havent seen any persuasive evidence that they 
will.
Responses to my provisional decision
Starling accepted my provisional decision.
Mr C and Ms M accepted my finding that Starling should reimburse all the payments they 
made to T  apart from the £1,750 paid on 18 November 2020  and pay interest at a rate of 
8% simple per annum from the date that they shouldve been refunded under the CRM Code 
to the date of settlement. But they asked me to consider awarding them more than £300 for 
the trouble and upset the bank has caused them. They pointed out that theyve waited 
almost two years for the refund they shouldve received under the CRM Code, because of 
the banks persistent refusal to accept responsibility for refunding them. They said the delay has caused them significant distress and anxiety, including monetary hardship and 
unacceptable living conditions. 
My amended provisional decision
I thought about what Mr C and Ms M said and wrote to both parties again on 6 July 2023. I 
included extracts from Mr C and Ms Ms further submission, detailing the trouble and upset 
theyve experienced since being declined a refund under the CRM Code, and I said:
Mr C and Ms M have explained that they borrowed money from a relative in order to deal 
with the immediate damage  a) to clear rubble away and seal pipework b) to install a 
replacement bathroom c) to carry out electrical and pipework for safety reasons. Theyve 
also said that they were unable to claim on their home insurance policy so that works could 
be completed whilst they awaited a refund under the CRM Code because the damage to 
their property was not accidental. Considering everything, Im satisfied that they took action 
to mitigate their loss where possible.
Im mindful that Mr C and Ms Ms initial loss was caused by the cruel and callous acts of a 
fraudster  and I think that needs to be taken into account here. But Starling was aware of 
the situation that Mr C and Ms M were in, and I think the impact of the banks mistake ought 
to have been reasonably apparent to Starling. Starling could have lessened the impact on Mr 
C and Ms M by reimbursing them under the CRM Code in a timely manner, as it ought to 
have done. Instead, the bank exacerbated the situation  leaving them without funds to 
complete essential building works on their property and in an unenviable living situation for 
many months. 
In reconsidering what is fair compensation, Ive specifically thought about the impact of the 
banks actions, rather than the impact of the crime itself and Im persuaded, from the further 
information Mr C and Ms M have provided, that Starling has caused them substantial 
distress, upset and worry over a protracted period. So, I think a higher award of £800 for 
trouble and upset is appropriate in the circumstances, and in line with the level of awards 
this Service recommends. 
Responses to my amended provisional decision
Mr C and Ms M accepted my amended provisional decision.
Starling let me know that it doesnt think a higher award of £800 for trouble and upset is fair. 
The bank said it appreciates that Ive decided this is not a civil matter as it believed. But if it 
had accepted our investigators recommendations, it would have been incorrectly held liable 
for reimbursing the £1,750 Mr C and Ms M paid T on 18 November 2020. The bank said that 
it has assisted this Service in reaching a fair resolution and, although it appreciates the 
impact of the situation on Mr C and Ms M, it doesnt think its reasonable to increase the 
compensation liability based on the time taken to reach a fair outcome for all parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional finding that Starling should reimburse all the 
payments Mr C and Ms M made to T  apart from the £1,750 paid on 18 November 2020  
and pay them interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date that they shouldve 
been refunded under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. Neither party has provided 
any new evidence for me to consider in relation to this finding, so I see no reason to depart from my conclusions in this respect.
Ive carefully considered what Starling has said about my provisional finding that £800 is a 
fair and reasonable award for trouble and upset in the circumstances. But, taking into 
account what Mr C and Ms M have told me about their experiences since being declined a 
refund under the CRM Code, I still think that £800 is an appropriate amount overall, which is 
in line with the level of awards this Service recommends. Starling made an error when it 
declined to reimburse any of the money Mr C and Ms M lost to T under the provisions of the 
CRM Code. But for that error, much of the distress, upset and worry Mr C and Ms M have 
experienced couldve been avoided. I understand Starlings position, but Im satisfied that its 
reasonable for the bank to fairly compensate Mr C and Ms M for the additional trouble and 
upset its caused by not reimbursing them quickly under the CRM Code as it ought to have 
done, thus minimising the impact on them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct Starling Bank Limited to:
Reimburse all the payments Mr C and Ms M made to T  apart from the £1,750 paid 
on 18 November 2020  and pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date that they shouldve been refunded under the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr C and Ms M £800 for the trouble and upset the bank has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman