DRN-1850512
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC made unauthorised changes to their 
mortgage account which increased their monthly premiums. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs L agreed a new fixed term mortgage with Barclays. The monthly 
payment was £240.25. Over the next two months Mr and Mrs L received a number of letters 
from Barclays showing different monthly payment amounts, higher than what theyd been 
told back in March. Mr and Mrs L checked their mortgage details and noticed that changes 
had been made to the amounts showing on the interest and capital parts of their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs L complained to Barclays who accepted thered been a mistake. On 30 May 
2019 it confirmed the mistake had been rectified and the couples mortgage account had 
been updated to show the correct split between the interest and capital parts of their 
mortgage, and the monthly payment was now correct. Barclays also paid Mr and Mrs L £400 
for the inconvenience caused by its mistake. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy and came to our service. They were concerned that 
Barclays had made changes to their mortgage account without their authorisation, which had 
resulted in increased monthly payments. And they were worried this mightve happened 
before and could happen again. 
Mr and Mrs L felt the customer service provided by Barclays was poor, and staff had limited 
or no knowledge of how the mistake couldve happened and how it could be resolved. They 
didnt think the £400 Barclays paid was enough to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, and for the time theyd spent trying to resolve matters. They also 
wanted reassurances this wouldnt happen again and for Barclays staff to be better trained. 
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She explained how the mistake had 
happened and how it was linked to the overpayment balance on Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
account. Our investigator was satisfied Barclays had fully rectified the problem, and that
Mr and Mrs L hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result of the mistake. She felt the £400 
paid by Barclays was fair. 
Mr and Mrs L have asked for an Ombudsman review. They said they hadnt made an 
overpayment to their mortgage and so couldnt understand how this had prompted Barclays 
to change the amounts on the interest and capital parts of their mortgage. The couple 
maintained that Barclays had made this change without their consent and with no basis.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think the £400 paid by Barclays was a fair reflection of what they went 
through.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs L feel strongly about this complaint, and I fully appreciate 
why they think the service they received from Barclays was not what they expected. And so, 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to them. But Ill explain why Im not 
upholding their complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. I should add here that our services role is to assess the information 
provided by both sides, weigh this up and see whether Barclays has done enough to put 
things right on a fair and reasonable basis. Because we look at individual complaints, we 
arent able to make changes at a wider scale as Mr and Mrs L would like to stop mistakes 
like this happening again  such as changes to business processes or staff training. 
Barclays accepts it made mistakes which meant Mr and Mrs L were provided with a number 
of different monthly payment amounts and overpaid on their May 2019 payment. So, I have 
to look at what Barclays has done to put things right. Thats not just from a financial 
compensation point of view, which takes account of the trouble and upset caused to Mr and 
Mrs L, but also the action Barclays took to resolve the matter, and to ensure the couple 
havent been financially disadvantaged.
Looking at the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs L agreed to, dated 22 March 2019, I can see that 
the monthly payment of £240.25 was based on the mortgage balance as of 22 March 2019. 
The offer says this amount may vary slightly, as it will be based on the balance at the point 
the new interest rate is applied, in this case, on 1 April 2019. So, I think Mr and Mrs L were 
informed that the £240.25 figure may change. 
Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage account is now 
correct and that the overpayment they made in May 2019 didnt cause them any financial 
loss  as it went towards reducing the overall mortgage balance. But Mr and Mrs Ls main 
concern is that Barclays moved around £8,967.73 from the interest part of their mortgage to 
the capital part of their mortgage without their consent. The couple say this isnt linked in any 
way to an overpayment theyve made.  
Barclays has explained that when recalculating Mr and Mrs Ls minimum monthly payments 
as of 1 April 2019 it needed to take account of an overpayment balance of £8,967.73. In 
doing this a mistake meant the money moved between the interest and capital parts of the 
mortgage. Because the process to rectify the error resulted in several different monthly 
payment amounts being calculated, automated letters were sent to Mr and Mrs L with 
different payment amounts. Whilst this was unhelpful, the letters couldnt be stopped.  
It might help if I first explain this wasnt a one off overpayment the couple made in April 
2019. Rather it was an overpayment balance of £8,967.73 which had built up over time. I 
can see reference was made to the overpayment balance in Barclays letter to Mr and Mrs L 
dated 30 April 2019 and Ive seen evidence of it in Barclays records. The need to apply the 
overpayment in order to get a minimal monthly payment for the new fixed rate mortgage was 
also explained to Mrs L during a phone conversation on 7 May 2019. So, she was aware of 
the process and how the overpayment impacted the minimal monthly payment. 
Taking account all the information Ive considered, Im satisfied the mistake came about 
when Barclays applied an overpayment balance to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage account. And 
wasnt because Barclays moved money from the interest to the capital part of their mortgage 
for no reason without their authorisation or consent. I hope this provides Mr and Mrs L with 
some reassurance.  I can fully appreciate how this was a frustrating time for Mr and Mrs L. It took just over four 
weeks to resolve the issue which seems to have been a complex matter. And I can see how 
difficulty contacting Barclays, receiving letters with different monthly payment amounts, and 
the worry that their mortgage account had been changed without their authorisation caused 
Mr and Mrs L distress and inconvenience. Barclays has paid them £400 to recognise the 
inconvenience they were put to. And I think that amount, together with assurances the 
matter has been resolved, is fair and reasonable and in line with what Id expect to see in 
similar cases. So, I wont be asking Barclays to pay any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman