DRN-1427182
The complaint
Mr A complains that Advantage Finance Ltd refused to cover the cost of repairs to a faulty 
car. 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr A acquired a second-hand car costing £7,495 funded by a hire purchase 
agreement. It was eight years old and had done 103,481 miles. After about a year he began 
encountering problems with the car breaking down. He supplied an invoice dated 4 March 
2019 for a starter motor sensor and one from July 2019 for replacing the turbo pressure 
transducer and upstream air sensor. The car had done 106,867 miles by July 2019.
Mr A complained to the business in June 2019 that the car was faulty and asked that to 
cover the costs of repairs. It asked that he obtain an independent report. He did so in July 
2019. This concluded that the car was severely under powered, but this was due to the 
diesel particulate filter (DPF) being blocked. The inspector said that cleaning and 
regenerating the DPF should address the problem. He also said that this was a wear and 
tear issue and there no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of sale.
Mr A decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement and Advantage explained that this 
would cost him over £4,000, but he decided to proceed. He then made a complaint to this 
service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said the car was elderly had had covered a significant number of miles. It was to be 
expected that it would suffer wear and tear. Mr A hadnt raised any concerns until he had the 
car for a year and it was up to him to demonstrate the car had been faulty when he acquired 
it. The independent report concluded that car had been satisfactory at the point of sale and 
he had no evidence to contradict those findings.
As for the voluntary termination he noted Mr A had terminated the agreement after some 14 
months and had yet to reach 50% of the sum due at the outset. This meant he was obliged 
to pay the balance to meet the 50% sum. He thought Advantage had acted correctly. Mr A 
didnt agree and said that he also disagreed with the independent inspector. He had only 
driven it for about 3,000 mile and it had many issues. The starter motor had been faulty as 
had the battery. He had only wanted Advantage to assist with the cost of repairs and as it 
hadnt done so he was forced to return the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Advantage is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr A, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why. Quite simply, to allow me to direct Advantage to assist him I have to be 
satisfied that the car was faulty at the point of sale. But I cannot say that as I dont have 
evidence which would allow me to reach that conclusion.
The car was some eight years old and wear and tear is to be expected. Parts will go wrong. I 
have to rely on the independent report which states there wasnt evidence to say the car was 
inherently faulty. It seems that the DPF system needed to be cleaned and that would have 
resolved the main problem. I appreciate Mr A doesnt agree with the findings of the report, 
but in the absence of evidence to the contrary I cannot reach a different conclusion to that of 
an expert who has inspected the car. 
I also note that the car passed its MOT in November 2018 which also suggests that it was 
satisfactory at that point and therefore unlikely to have been faulty at the point of sale. 
Overall, while I can see that Mr A had some problems I dont consider I can say that at the 
point of sale it wasnt fit for purpose. 
As for the business handling of the termination I can see that it made him aware of the cost 
implications of proceeding and he chose to do so. That means he has an outstanding 
balance to pay. I cannot say that the business did anything wrong in how it dealt with his 
request to terminate the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman