DRN-4055228
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society (NFU) 
because it wouldnt accept her vetting documents leaving her horse without cover for illness 
and disease. 
What happened
Miss G purchased a new horse in August 2022. She decided to take an equine insurance 
policy through NFU. Miss G instructed a vet to complete a five-stage vetting assessment on 
4 August  which the horse passed.
On 18 August, Miss G set up cover with NFU and the policy documents were sent to Miss G, 
outlining the cover options. These documents also requested that the five-stage vetting 
documents to be sent within 30 days of their completion. Miss G said NFU failed to make 
this clear at the time and so she didnt realise she had to send this information on. 
Miss G said that because of this, she was left without cover for her horse for illness and 
disease because by the time it realised the information was missing the documents had 
expired. Miss G said this caused her significant distress and that she had to arrange cover 
elsewhere.
NFU accepted it should have made this clearer whilst Miss G was discussing cover options 
with it. NFU said it would usually have reminded its consumers five days after taking out the 
policy and that this didnt happen. However, it also highlighted the policy documents made it 
clear that without the vetting information, no cover would be in place for illness and disease. 
Our investigator accepted the mistake caused Miss G some distress as she was left without 
important elements of cover, however, she said the £100 compensation paid by NFU was 
fair. She also highlighted the policy documents sent on 18 August requested this information 
and that NFU had done enough to make Miss G aware. 
Miss G didnt accept this. In summary, she said that she had to change insurers altogether 
because NFU would not fully insure her horse without a new vetting certificate  which would 
have cost her another £350. Miss G said NFU should pay those costs because she feels it 
should have been clearer about the deadlines involved. And so, its now for me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. I accept NFU didnt chase Miss G for the 
missing information, but it still requested it through the policy information that was sent on 18 
August 2022  when she decided to take the policy out. I think the £100 compensation 
already paid is a fair acknowledgement for the overall distress and inconvenience this 
caused. Ill explain why. 
The five-stage vetting certificate was available from 4 August and NFUs policy says 
the documentation is only valid within 30 days of its completion. That means Miss G 
had 30 days from 4 August to share the information with it. Miss G didnt do this right 
away because she was still unsure whether to insure her horse with NFU. In fact, it 
wasnt until 18 August Miss G decided to take the policy with it. Emails between both 
NFU and Miss G up until then support that she was considering other options 
available on the market and that price was a main consideration for Miss G. I note 
NFU mentioned itd need five-stage vetting and that this was only valid for 30-days. 
Im satisfied it made clear Miss G would need to accept the policy within 30-days of 
the vetting having taken place.   
On 18 August, some two weeks after the vetting had been completed, Miss G 
decided to take up cover with NFU and the policy documents were sent to her. Ive 
reviewed these documents and Im satisfied they made clear that NFU needed to see 
the vetting information and explained this must happen within 30 days of the vetting 
assessment having taken place. I think those documents are also clear that no cover 
will be in place for disease or illness until this information had been received and 
reviewed by NFU. And so, Im satisfied that not only was Miss G made aware of this 
during her initial discussions with NFU, prior to taking the policy, but she was also 
made aware of the policy requirements through the documentation sent on 18 
August. I note the vets report was completed on 4 August and so there was still time 
for Miss G to share this information with it prior to the expiration date 30 days later.
It wasnt until 27 September that NFU realised the documentation was missing and 
so it requested Miss G send it. Miss G sent this the same day, however, it wasnt until 
a month later, on 27 October, that NFU realised the vetting was invalid because itd 
passed the 30 days expiry date. NFU apologised for the delay and paid £100 
compensation  which I agree is fair. It became clear that Miss Gs policy didnt 
include cover for disease or illness and I accept this caused her some distress. NFU 
offered to review a new vetting document so this could be rectified, however, Miss G 
would need to source an up to date assessment at her own cost. I dont think NFU 
acted unfairly here because the vetting documents fell outside the 30 day window 
because Miss G didnt share them in good time. It wasnt through lack of notice by 
NFU as Im satisfied it made Miss G aware on two occasions this was needed before 
cover for disease and illness could be confirmed.   
Ultimately, Miss G decided to seek insurance elsewhere because she didnt want to 
pay for another vetting assessment. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
thats NFUs fault. Miss G ought reasonably to have been aware NFU needed the 
additional information because it was made clear on her policy documents. And so, I 
make no award for that. However, I think NFU should have told Miss G her 
documents were out of date sooner than it did. I think this wouldve enabled Miss G 
to make a decision on alternative cover sooner than she did. I also accept this 
caused Miss G some distress because her horse wasnt covered for illness or 
disease, however, I note that no claims were made during that time. Therefore, I 
consider £100 compensation a fair outcome in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman