DRN-3445187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Society of Lloyds unfairly turned down their business 
interruption insurance claim after their business was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.
A representative has brought the complaint on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf but for simplicity I 
shall just refer to Mr and Mrs W throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held a business interruption insurance policy with Society of Lloyds. They 
claimed on the policy for their business interruption losses caused by Covid-19. Society of 
Lloyds declined the claim. It said Mr and Mrs W werent covered for their losses as the 
definition of Notifiable Disease in the policy didnt include Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They said the policy covered Plague which in their view was a 
generic name for a range of diseases including Covid-19.
They referred their complaint to our service. Our Investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She didnt think the reference in the policy to Plague included Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs W asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic had an impact on Mr and Mrs Ws business. But I dont 
intend to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Society of Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
The relevant part of the policy is an extension covering loss resulting from an occurrence of 
a listed disease occurring at Mr and Mrs Ws business premises. The list of covered 
diseases doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr and Mrs Ws 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases. 
Plague is one of the diseases listed as being covered by the policy. Ive thought about Mr 
and Mrs Ws point that Plague should include cover for Covid-19 but I dont think it does. In 
the Governments updated list of notifiable diseases Covid-19 and Plague are listed 
separately, indicating that they are different diseases. The medical definition of Plague says 
that it is a specific disease caused by a particular bacterium, whereas Covid-19 is a virus. 
Having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague 
used in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness of Plague. 
Whilst I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary 
definition as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would 
render redundant the list that Society of Lloyds has set out. Thats because it would cover 
most of the specified illnesses set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as 
Society of Lloyds has. Overall the fact that Plague is listed separately and that Covid 19 is 
different in its make-up and nature to Plague is, in my view, enough for me to determine that 
Covid 19 does not fall within the term Plague in the policy and it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances to treat the policy as if it did. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Society of Lloyds to pay their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman