DRN-3397921
The complaint
Mr H complains about how AIB Group (UK) Plc has closed his local branch.
What happened
Mr H says AIB has closed his local branch as well as number of others. He says it was 
closed without appropriate communication or discussion with customers. Mr H says 
customers were not spoken to and says his nearest branch is smaller than the closed 
branch.
AIB says it has spoken to Mr H about other options and says it has also explained the 
reasons why it made the decision to close his local branch.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained that we are not AIBs regulator and so its not our role to interfere in 
commercial business decisions or to punish a business. The investigator thought AIB had 
followed the regulators guidance and had given Mr H other options for banking with it.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he doesnt believe AIB conducted a branch impact 
survey.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
I make clear to Mr H as the investigator has done, that we are not AIBs regulator. That 
means it is not our role to punish or fine a business. It is also not our role to interfere in the 
commercial practice of AIB or direct it to keep a branch open.
I am satisfied that AIB has explained why it made the decision to close Mr Hs local branch 
and has fairly explained what other options are available to him. I cant fairly comment on 
what Mr H says about his nearest branch being smaller than the local branch that was 
closed.
I have not seen any evidence that AIB didnt follow the regulators guidance on this issue 
and am satisfied that Mr H was able to provide it with his own views about the decision to 
close his branch. I have made clear that Im satisfied that AIB has explained alternative 
options available to Mr H and the arrangements it has agreed with a different business.
I appreciate Mr H questions if AIB carried out an impact survey and if it spoke to actual 
customers. I cant see that AIB commented on that issue but can see that Mr H said in his 
letter to it that he had read the impact assessment whilst in branch. It is not our role to 
investigate if actual customers were spoken to.
Overall, I hope Mr H appreciates our limited role in these sorts of complaints and that Im 
satisfied that AIB has provided alternative options to Mr H. Im also satisfied that AIB fairly 
explained its decision to Mr H but of course accept it is his prerogative to disagree.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman