DRN-3896241
The complaint
Mr J has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)  it was the 
insurer for a property Mr J owned and let out which became the subject of a subsidence 
claim. Mr J is unhappy with certain aspects of the claim.
LV has used a loss adjuster during this claim. LV is responsible for the actions of the loss 
adjuster. I may sometimes refer to actions of LV even if it was the loss adjuster which 
actually undertook those actions.
What happened
In October 2016 LV was contacted by Mr Js broker who advised that a survey, completed 
on the property next door to Mr Js, had identified that Mr Js property  which was occupied 
at the time  was suffering subsidence. LV appointed a loss adjuster and began considering 
a claim on the policy. 
The loss adjuster visited in early November, noted the property was built on shrinkable clay 
soil and that there were several, mature trees in close proximity on neighbouring land. The 
loss adjuster also recorded that damage had reportedly gotten worse over the summer 
months before the claim was notified to LV. The loss adjuster noted the previous summer 
had been dry and concluded that the subsidence at the property was likely being caused by 
the trees. Action was then taken to arrange soil investigations, have an arborist make a 
report, monitor any movement at the property and to liaise with the owner/s of the trees. The 
property was monitored for movement for 14 months, when the results were considered 
towards the end of that period in March 2018, it was felt the property was stable and LV told 
Mr J that it wanted to repair the property.
Mr J was wary of repairs being completed. He wasnt persuaded that the trees had ever 
been the cause of the problem and noted that whilst he did not think it was appropriate for 
them to be removed (due to local circumstances), they were still in-situ. He felt his property 
should be underpinned. LV wasnt persuaded that underpinning was necessary, not given 
the results of the year-long monitoring  but it said it would install a root barrier to help 
protect the property in the future from the effects of the trees. That was done in July 2018 
and LV looked to move to repair the property. But Mr J was still not happy to do so  he felt 
that further investigations, as well as work on the foundations of the property, were required. 
LV confirmed it was happy to move to repairs and in early October 2018 told Mr J those 
repairs could start after 22 October 2018 and would take about eight weeks in total.
In December 2018 it was noted that Mr J had not replied to further the repairs. A meeting to 
discuss the claim was subsequently arranged for February 2019. Following further reviewing 
and discussion with Mr J, LV said its position had not changed. In May 2019 Mr J appointed 
a loss assessor to assist and deal with matters on his behalf. In August, with the claim still 
under review following the instruction of the loss assessor, Mr J asked LV to act to remove 
the trees. LV said this wasnt possible given the root barrier which had been installed. The 
loss assessor then said he felt the root barrier installation had been premature  with all 
other avenues of mitigation having not first been exhausted. Mr J then asked again for the 
trees to be removed as he feared they were still taking moisture from the soil, he said he 
intended to have them coppiced and needed LV to agree to that. LV confirmed again that it 
could not assist in this respect.
In October 2019 LV was again looking to arrange a repair and Mr J was keen to arrange a 
pre-contract meeting with the contractor. But he also told LV that he wasnt happy to 
progress with that contractor in place. LV agreed to look for an alternate contractor and 
appointed one at the end of November 2019, with a meeting arranged shortly thereafter for 
the contractor to visit the property to prepare their scope of work. The completed scope was 
presented in February 2020. Mr J then asked LV for a cash offer to settle the claim, along 
with a payment by it for loss of rent as covered by the policy.
Regarding lost rent, LV declined to pay anything. It said Mr J had removed the tenants that 
had been living in the property around the time the claim was notified. And his son had since 
been living there. It said the property had never been uninhabitable, although it had 
accepted that when repairs were done, some rooms, at times, would be out of use. When 
Mr J later showed the rent his son had been paying, LV agreed to offer the cost of alternative 
accommodation for Mr Js son for the period of repairs.
By August 2020 the claim had not significantly progressed. LV advised it was awaiting an 
updated scope from its contractor in order to allow the repairs to progress or it to offer a cash 
settlement to Mr J. Having received this it was felt that further checks at the property were 
needed to ensure all necessary work required was included. That took place and was 
confirmed in October/November 2020, with Mr J being advised that repairs could start at the 
property in January 2021. Mr J remained concerned about the extent of the work planned, 
particularly that a boundary wall was not being re-built or swapped for fencing. LV said it 
maintained the wall was not damaged by the subsidence  but agreed to repair the cracks, it 
said, as a goodwill gesture. Mr J noted that flooring, included in the 2018 scope of work, was 
not part of the current repair plan. LV looked to review that and in April 2021 Mr J said he 
needed time to reflect on the situation  hed been told a cash settlement might amount to 
around £16,000 (net the policy excess and inclusive of VAT, if VAT was incurred) and he 
wanted to decide whether or not to accept it. Mr Js loss assessor then asked to see a copy 
of the scope on which the offer was based, the assessor said that the figure should be 
revised or, in order to properly assess a reasonable cash amount for settlement, a tender 
exercise should be undertaken. The assessor also asked to see evidence showing that the 
property was stable. LV provided answers in these respects.
In June 2021 the assessor said Mr J wasnt prepared to have LVs contractors do the work 
and he was still considering the cash offer. But he felt it was low and may now be out of date 
given the recent cost increases that had occurred in the industry. The assessor said Mr J 
was considering selling the property  but this was proving difficult as LV hadnt issued a 
certificate of structural adequacy (CSA) for the property  even though it maintained it was 
stable. LV said it could confirm in writing that the property was stable  but that the CSA 
couldnt be issued until work was completed or the claim was concluded with an acceptance 
of a cash settlement offer. At the end of July the loss assessor said Mr J was still considering 
the cash option but may prefer to have LV do the work. In August, Mr J continued to 
consider the matter and the loss assessor asked LV if it would increase the offer, and also pay lost rent. The extent of the scope of work the offer was based on was questioned again. 
The property was then sold on 30 September 2021.
Mr J began corresponding with LV again around this time. He raised concerns about the root 
barrier and felt only his work to coppice the trees (which LV had reimbursed the cost of) had 
made the property stable. He said the most recent scope had been stripped of things agreed 
by the first contractor. Mr J explained he was struggling with his own health whilst caring for 
his wife and said that, regardless of the sale of the property, he wanted the claim settlement 
to go to him. Mr J said he could have sold the house for more if hed had a CSA, without that 
prospective buyers couldnt get a mortgage, a cash sale around £800,000 was agreed. He 
wanted LV to cover his loss assessors fees, the boundary wall and his lost rent. LV viewed 
this contact as a complaint.
LV reviewed its loss adjusters file. It noted the previous scope for 2018 and that it was much 
more extensive than that created later. It felt the sum of the 2018 quote, £27,253.22 should 
be offered to Mr J as that was exactly the work it would have done had Mr J agreed for work 
to go ahead. But noting Mr J was not going to have any cost for repair, because the house 
had been sold, it wasnt prepared to include VAT. Or anything for alternative 
accommodation, lost rent or loss assessors fees. It also reviewed the policy but noted that 
there was no option in the terms for settling based on any diminution in value of the property 
if repairs werent completed. LV told Mr J that he could accept the offer and still complain. 
Mr J said he wanted to accept on an interim basis but asked that payment of the sum was 
deferred for a few months, which LV agreed. Following the claim settlement payment being 
issued, Mr J complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt Mr Js complaint centred on four topics; the claim settlement, lost rent, 
the CSA and his loss assessors fees. Mr J referenced collusion between LVs loss 
adjusters and the local council  believing there had been an active attempt to use his claim 
as a means for removing trees from land adjoining his property. He said another contractor 
acting for LV had negligently damaged a sewer pipe and hed been put to a lot of trouble, 
also incurring costs, to mitigate the effects of that. He maintained the boundary wall should 
have been part of the claim settlement. Mr J said this had been a terrible ordeal.
Our Investigator felt LVs position in respect of the CSA and loss assessors fees was 
reasonable. Regarding lost rent, he felt LV had fairly, in line with the policy wording, declined 
to cover Mr Js losses. He also felt the claim settlement had been fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances  particularly in light of the fact that Mr J had not completed the repair 
work LV paid for and had not shown hed sold the property for less than he otherwise could  
have done. 
Mr J was dissatisfied with the findings. He said his loss assessor had changed the course of 
the claim. He also said it was generally accepted that houses sell for less in cash where the 
market for sale is restricted to those buyers who do not require a mortgage. He provided 
comment from his loss assessor. 
Our Investigator considered these points. But didnt feel the assessor had materially 
changed the course or outcome of the claim. And he noted there was still no evidence to 
show what, if anything, Mr J had lost when selling the property. So he told Mr J that his view 
on the complaint had not changed. In response to some further correspondence from Mr J, 
our Investigator explained that our remit only extended to considering the actions of LV and 
its agents  we couldnt look at the actions of the local council. Mr J asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr J, Im not 
upholding it. My background above, whilst lengthy due to the period of the claim and the 
points in issue, is a summary of what occurred, and encompasses the key points in dispute. 
I appreciate that Mr J has certain concerns and queries over things like soil and root 
investigations  but, in my view, the claim and complaint dont turn on these matters so 
whilst I acknowledge Mr Js concerns, my findings wont deal extensively with all points 
raised by him. I wont comment on actions of the local authority, and if Mr J feels he has 
unreimbursed losses in respect of the broken sewer pipe, he can contact LV. My focus will 
be on the issues at the heart of the complaint, namely; the CSA, loss of rent, the settlement, 
and loss assessors fees.
CSA
I appreciate Mr Js frustration in this respect  he wanted to sell the property and it was 
undoubtedly more difficult for him to do that in its damaged state. I can understand why he 
feels that the CSA could have been issued by LV. But Im mindful that LV, whilst saying it 
could not issue this, did confirm in writing that the property was stable. And a CSA is usually 
issued once either repairs have been done or a settlement has been made for those repairs. 
Here repairs werent done  although for a long while there was some uncertainty about 
whether LV would do the work or if the claim would be settled in cash. I think LVs responses 
about the CSA reasonably reflected the usual industry approach to CSAs as relevant at the 
applicable time of the response. I think LV acted fairly and reasonably in this respect and 
I cant see that anything it did or said in respect of the CSA was materially influenced by the 
loss assessor.  
Loss of rent
I appreciate that, early on in the claim, Mr J made some decisions about his property which 
he felt would be best to mitigate any inconvenience or difficulty when it came time for repairs 
to be done. But that included having his fully paying tenants leave and/or becoming non-rent 
paying lodgers, with his son staying there, paying a peppercorn rent. This resulted in Mr J 
losing around £20,000 in yearly rental income. I understand this was a big loss for Mr J, 
especially as the claim remained outstanding over such a long period and I accept that, at 
the outset, he couldnt have expected the claim would continue for as long as it did. Although 
I note that the property was felt to be stable and LV was ready to commence repairs as early 
as 2018. 
Im mindful also that the property wasnt, at any time, according to the loss adjuster reports, 
and having taken into account the photos of the damage, in such a poor state as to make it 
dangerous to live in. And the tenants didnt leave because of the state of the property. 
Further whilst Mr J felt he couldnt, later on in the claim, re-let it as it was, he didnt try to. 
And I bear in mind that he didnt want to have a more formal tenancy arrangement in place 
due to any difficulty that might be encountered if the repairs required the property to be 
empty. I also note that Mr J did not seek agreement from LV before he took the action he did 
to change the occupation arrangements at the property.
The policy with LV allows for payment of lost rent where damage covered by the policy 
causes that loss. And it also views the relevant loss as rent receivable from tenants. In the 
circumstances I think LVs refusal to pay Mr J for rent he lost when he chose to change how 
and under what agreements the property was occupied, including his son paying only a 
peppercorn rent, was fair and reasonable. As such, Im not persuaded I can fairly make LV 
reimburse the lost income.Settlement
Clearly this claim has gone on for quite some time. But I think it is fair to say that LV has, 
from the outset, communicated its intent to repair the property. Im satisfied it took 
reasonable steps initially to investigate and determine the likely cause of the problem  and 
that its monitoring results reasonably showed the property was stable, even though it hadnt 
been possible to significantly reduce the trees. Im also of the view that installing the root 
barrier was a reasonable thing for LV to do  neither it nor Mr J could control the trees on the 
other partys land and, whilst the property was stable, the proximity of the trees and the soil 
type, left the property at risk. And as LV was going to be repairing the property, it had to 
ensure that any repairs it did would be long-lasting. Installing a root barrier, in my view, was 
a reasonable way of ensuring that.  
Having instated the root barrier, the repairs could progress and a scope of works was 
authorised. It is that scope of works that LV eventually based its settlement on. I think its 
initial offer based on the revised, later scope was reasonable given the detail available at 
that time  Mr J had said he was unhappy to proceed with the initial contractors, new ones 
were put in place and they produced their own scope of work. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of LV to rely on that in the first instance when looking to settle in cash. 
However, when Mr J complained and LVs complaint handler reviewed matters, the 
difference in the scopes was noted and LV felt it was appropriate to base its final cash offer 
on the original scope. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im 
satisfied that this decision was not driven by the loss assessors involvement or arguments. 
I think its fair and reasonable that LV did not include VAT in its cash settlement. After all 
Mr J did not complete the repairs so he did not incur VAT. Of course, he did not have a cost 
of repairs either  but LVs policy does not allow for settlement based on anything other than 
the cost of repair. So whilst I know that Mr J feels he has lost money on the sale of the 
property in the situation where repairs werent completed, his policy cover didnt entitle him 
to settlement based on that loss. And whilst I understand Mr Js point that it stands to reason 
he lost out on the sale, he hasnt shown this was actually the case. 
I know Mr J thinks the settlement should also include the cost of replacing the boundary wall. 
Im not persuaded that the settlement is unreasonably lacking in this respect. I know Mr Js 
view on the wall is that it must have been damaged by the subsidence subject of the claim, 
such that it needs rebuilding/replacing. But that was not the view of LVs experts. And Ive 
seen nothing from a similarly qualified expert in challenge of that view. In any event, LV 
settled based on the cost of work it had agreed was necessary to do to reinstate the property 
in 2018  and not only did Mr J not complete those repairs, he didnt replace the boundary 
wall either. In the circumstances, Im not minded to make LV do anything more.  
Loss assessors fees
I appreciate that Mr J felt that involving a loss assessor was necessary and would be a less 
costly option than him using a surveyor. But I know LV told him early on that this cost would 
not be covered by it. And I note the policy does not offer cover to the policyholder for 
employing this type of assistance. Further, having carefully considered everything that 
happened, and all of the communication which occurred, Im not persuaded that the loss 
assessor added any worth to the claim. I dont think the assessor assisted in materially 
changing the outcome, even though, subsequent to the assessors involvement, an 
increased settlement offer was made by LV. Im satisfied that, in the circumstances here, 
LVs decision to not reimburse Mr J for his loss assessors fees was fair and reasonable.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman