DRN-3186810
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a term assurance policy alongside mortgage lending 
from Lloyds Bank PLC in September 2009. 
Specifically he says the policy contained life cover which was unnecessary for him. He 
therefore believes that a proportion of the policy premium ought to be refunded, with interest.   
What happened
Mr L complained to Lloyds (as the party responsible for Scottish Widows policies) in August 
2019. The complaint was originally brought regarding payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Mr L said he took out a Scottish Widows protection policy alongside a mortgage advance. 
Whilst he had accepted critical illness cover, he now questioned what he was told about life 
cover being included for free. He also queried what commission the adviser had received. 
Lloyds responded in December 2019 to confirm Mr L had not been sold PPI. It also rejected 
the complaint. It said the adviser hadnt been paid any commission. Further, it said Mr L had 
accepted the recommendation and received relevant paperwork at the time of the sale 
confirming as such. It believed the proposed policy was suitable for Mr Ls needs at the time. 
In February 2020, Mr L wrote to Lloyds again. He said the 2010 policy summary set out how 
from January 2000 to August 2009 and January 2000 to October 2008, Scottish Widows had 
paid out over £578m in life claims and £185m in critical illness claims respectively. 
Mr L said this information caused him to disbelieve about what he had been told regarding 
no additional cost life cover. He said it must mean that three-quarters of the policy premium 
went towards life cover, given the proportions of claims that had been paid out up to 2008/9. 
In March 2020, Lloyds explained how the figures quoted by Scottish Widows concerned its 
entire protection portfolio  of which life cover made up a far greater proportion of policies. 
The reporting did not indicate that life cover formed three-quarters of policy premiums for 
combined cover policies. It was otherwise not willing to change its view on the complaint.
Mr L referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She concluded the complaint should not be upheld. 
Whilst she agreed with Mr L that his documented circumstances were such that he did not 
have a need for life cover, she noted that this was included free with critical illness benefit. 
And she thought critical illness cover was a reasonable proposal for Mr L to protect his new 
mortgage lending. She also didnt think there had been any commission charged by Lloyds.  
Mr L disagreed. He said he finds it extraordinarily difficult to accept that life cover was 
provided at no additional cost. He said he believed that if another Lloyds customer had 
approached it about just life cover, that would not be free  so his policy did not make sense. 
He said he felt that Lloyds should be held to account for how it calculates it policy premiums. 
Mr L remained of the view that he should have been recommended critical illness cover as a 
standalone policy, which he contends would have cost less than the combined cover. He 
asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for a fresh review.  
Lloyds did not have any further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Though this will be disappointing for Mr L, I do not believe this complaint should 
succeed. I will set out my conclusions on the complaint below.   
I can appreciate why Mr L initially took the view that his policy might have been PPI, as it 
was set out as a type of mortgage protection. However, the policy wasnt PPI. That is a 
different type of cover, primarily designed to offer protection for the repayments to a lending 
should a policyholder fall ill, be unable to work or face defined circumstances where they 
cannot meet repayments of a specified debt. 
Mr Ls policy was decreasing term assurance; this meant where in return for continued 
payments of a monthly premium over the policy term, it would pay out a lump sum payment 
broadly matching his outstanding mortgage should Mr L have passed away or suffered from 
one of a number of defined critical illnesses. At that point, the policy would then cease. If no 
claim was made it was otherwise designed to run to 2017, unless cancelled. 
Though this complaint isnt about the suitability of the critical illness cover, Mr L accepts that 
at the time of the mortgage advice, he had no other protection policies in place. He had an 
existing mortgage but this was due to end in 2010 and be paid off with the proceeds of an 
endowment policy, so the adviser agreed not to offer protection advice for the existing debt.  
Mr L was taking on a mortgage advance of £29,000 for eight years. The adviser noted Mr L 
felt it was important to be insured for the debt in the event he became unwell and therefore 
critical illness cover with the same initial sum assured as the mortgage was proposed and 
accepted by Mr L. And Mr L agrees now that this was reasonable for Lloyds to suggest. 
What is disputed now is the addition of life cover. Mr L has pointed to the information in his 
policys 2010 annual statement where Scottish Widows listed Facts about Critical Illness 
and Life Cover Claims.  
I dont accord with Mr Ls interpretation of this information. The values of the total claims are 
based on different numbers of claimants the £578m of life cover claims was for 15,500 
policyholders, compared to 5,530 policyholders for the £185m of critical illness cover claims.  
But more importantly, the number of claims and payments have no bearing or relation to the 
number of policyholders Lloyds has overall or what it charges in policy premiums for 
protection policies. The data on claim statistics was simply promotional material for Scottish 
Widows to explain to customers how it meets claims on its policies when required. 
Though Mr L contends otherwise, critical illness policies are generally more expensive than 
life cover policies; particularly as policyholders get older because the likelihood of needing to 
make a claim on the policy increases. They also offer cover for a wider set of insured events 
than life cover which is usually restricted to a policyholder passing away or being terminally ill. For that reason, some insurers will include life cover at no additional cost if a policyholder 
is prepared to take out critical illness benefit, for promotional reasons.   
I recognise that of itself, Mr L had no documented need for life cover, as he did not have any 
dependents at the time of the advice. He was aged 53, and he has explained that this 
circumstances regarding dependents remained unchanged for the life of the policy. 
However, Lloyds has confirmed that the policy premium for critical illness cover was £39.74 
per month. This premium was the same whether the policy had life cover or not, as it was 
prepared to provide life cover as an additional free benefit to customers at the time. This was 
set out to Mr L in writing in the personal summary and recommendations document dated 14 
September 2009. 
I know Mr L is sceptical about this, but I have not seen any clear evidence that his policy 
premium was more expensive than a standalone critical illness policy from Lloyds, and on 
balance, I believe that the policys life cover did not comprise a proportion of the premium 
such that it ought to be refunded to Mr L now.  
Finally, Lloyds has also confirmed that the adviser did not receive any form of trail 
commission for the advice she gave Mr L. Until 31 December 2012, it was possible for 
advisers to be paid through commission from the policy provider  but that would be the 
case where third party advisers recommended policies. The adviser that met with Mr L was 
employed by Lloyds and gave advice on Lloyds (Scottish Widows cover) only. 
The key facts documentation supplied to Mr L at the time explained how any charges 
including commission and expenses were included in the quoted policy premium. I have not 
seen any other objective evidence to suggest the adviser was paid additional commission for 
the recommendation made to Mr L and would not expect this to be the case in any event. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman