DRN-3676821
The complaint
Ms B says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to her. She 
has requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on the two accounts she 
had be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about two catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Ms 
B. Account 1 was a Fashion World account that was opened in January 2009, with Ms B 
being given an initial credit limit of £125. This limit was increased 11 times until it reached 
£3,500 in August 2014. Account 2 was a J D Williams account that was opened in January 
2014, with Ms B being given an initial credit limit of £200. This limit was increased 6 times 
until it reached £2,250 in March 2016. 
The accounts were eventually passed to a third party collection service after Ms B got into 
difficulty.
Ms B says shes unhappy that J D Williams granted her the credit and then continued to 
increase her credit limit on each account when she was only making minimum payments 
each month and already had a history of financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Bs complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised Ms B wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on either 
account by the time it offered Ms B the eighth increased credit limit on Account 1 in 
March 2011. It followed that our adjudicator also upheld Account 2 in its entirety.  
As J D Williams didnt fully accept what our adjudicator said, the complaint has therefore 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the Ms Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Ms B. These factors include:
the lower a Ms Bs income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Ms B with any additional credit from March 2011. J D Williams didnt entirely 
agree with what our adjudicator said about that particular uphold point. 
Ive therefore looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with Ms B, with 
a view to seeing if there was a different point  or any point at all - at which J D Williams 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean J D Williams should have realised that it 
shouldnt have further increased Ms Bs credit limits.
Ms B says that J D Williams should not have increased her credit limits given that she 
had been making only minimum payments on Account 1 since opening it. Ive seen that 
Miss B had missed payments within a few months of opening Account 1. However, 
throughout  2009, when the first six credit limit increases occurred, Ms B was only using 
a relatively low proportion of her available credit. And by October 2010, when the credit 
limit was increased to £2,000, she was still using only around a third of the available 
credit. 
I should also mention here that Ive noticed how Ms B had started regularly missing 
payments soon after opening Account 2 in January 2014, which I think underscores the 
fact that her finances had further deteriorated by then. 
Unfortunately, Ms B hasnt been able to provide us with copies of her bank statements 
covering the period she had these accounts. She told us her monthly income was around 
£1,300 per month at around the time she was granted Account 1. What detail Ive seen 
about Ms Bs other borrowing Ive gained mainly from the credit report and loan 
information shes sent us. J D Williams has only given us limited information about the 
checks it carried out. 
I see that Ms B told our adjudicator that by December 2009 she owed money on three 
credit cards, had one other catalogue account and three active loan accounts with the 
same lender. I agree with our adjudicator that by this point, with the available credit 
reaching £1,400, J D Williams ought to have carried out better checks to find out more 
above Ms Bs overall financial situation, including her regular monthly income and other 
committed credit obligations. I say this especially as Ms B had already by this time missed 
payments, in May and August 2009. The credit reports shes given us shows that loan accounts at that point were costing her £162 per month and she was paying a monthly 
contribution to her family, who she lived with, of £500, plus paying for food on top of that. 
Ive next looked at the credit limit increase to £2,000 J D Williams gave her in October 
2010. I  cant see that, aside from consolidating her three loan accounts into one,  Ms Bs 
position had changed significantly, either to her benefit or detriment. But she continued to 
make only minimum payments with her account balance gradually edging up. 
By March 2011, when the credit limit was increased to £2,500, Miss B had already missed 
a payment, in the January of that year. Given the particular circumstances of Ms Bs case, 
and taking into consideration that Ms Bs other financial commitments were continuing at 
the same level, I  think that the point was reached by then when J D Williams ought to 
have carried out checks to see if this level of credit was still likely to be affordable for Ms 
B. She was progressively increasing her level of the debt on this account and beginning to 
show signs of struggling. And as Ive already mentioned, during the time she had these 
accounts and up to this point, Ms B had in the main been making only minimum or near-
minimum payments. I think proportionate checks would likely have shown that Ms B was 
experiencing increasing difficulty with managing her account alongside her other debts 
and day-to-day living expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further 
increases to her credit limits could have contributed to her indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably, such that she had no funds available to meet her debts and regular 
outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Ms B lost out because J D Williams provided her with further credit 
from March 2011 onwards. And as her total indebtedness continued to increase going 
forwards, it follows that J D Williams ought not to have granted her Account 2, given her 
overall financial situation had appreciably worsened by the time it granted her the account 
in January 2014. 
It follows that J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Ms Bs account to ensure that from 26 March 2011 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £2,000 for both accounts, 
including any buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that 
date for Account 1) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should 
have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; 
and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Ms B to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Ms B has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file 
from 26 March 2011 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms B, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D 
Williams should also remove any adverse information from Ms Bs credit file from 
26 March 2011 onwards.     Given that J D Williams sold the outstanding balances on these accounts to a 
third party, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make 
the necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make the 
necessary adjustments; or pay Ms B an amount to ensure that it fully complies 
with this direction.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Bs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman