DRN-2521619
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr N was selling phones online. He found a buyer who agreed to buy two from him and a 
price of £1,380 was agreed. The buyer paid funds into Mr Ns account by way of a cheque 
on 4 April 2019. Mr N received a notification that the cheque had been paid in on his mobile 
banking app, and so sent the phones to the buyer.
Mr N then sold another two phones to the same person, this time for £1,250. Again the buyer 
deposited a cheque into Mr Ns account (on 5 April 2019) and he duly sent the phones.
But the first cheque was returned unpaid later on 5 April 2019, with the second cheque being 
returned unpaid on 8 April 2019. And so Mr N has been left without the phones or the money 
for them.
Mr N contacted the bank and reported the scam hed fallen victim to. He didnt think it was 
fair that the bank hadnt credited the cheque proceeds to his account and thought the 
notifications he received were misleading. He believed the money was in his account and 
available to him.
 
The bank explained the cheques hadnt gone all the way through the clearing cycle, which 
was explained in the relevant account terms and conditions. It said that the funds werent 
available to Mr N when he sent the phones to the scammer. And it further explained that the 
money wouldnt have been completely safe for Mr N to use until the clearing process had 
been completed. Whilst it sympathised with Mr N, it said there was nothing it could do.
The banks investigation into the complaint did take longer than either Mr N or the bank itself 
was happy with and so a payment of £100 compensation was made.
Mr N was unhappy with the banks final answer and so brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said the bank had acted correctly in processing the cheque and each had been returned 
unpaid the next working day after having been presented. He noted that the funds from the 
cheques wouldnt have actually been showing in Mr Ns account as available for use 
because theyd been returned unpaid so quickly. And so he didnt think Mr N could fairly rely 
on the notification that the cheques had been paid in as reason to believe the money was 
safely in his account, without risk of being returned. He also didnt believe the notifications 
had been misleading.
Mr N didnt agree and so asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to tell Mr N that Im unable to uphold his complaint. My reasons are broadly similar 
to those of our investigator and I cant see that the bank has made an error here.
Mr Ns account terms and conditions state:
If a cheque is paid into your account, including via one of our cash machines on a Working 
Day, it will start to earn interest and you can be sure that the money is yours to withdraw by 
the end of the next Working Day. An extra Working Day should be added for cheques paid in 
on a Saturday or at the Post Office.
Cheques can be returned unpaid by the bank of the person who wrote the cheque, even if 
funds have been made available to you. Even if you have used these funds to make a 
withdrawal or make a payment, we may still be able to take the money back out of your 
account.
I appreciate Mr N may not have been fully aware of these terms. Its common for people to 
not read full sets of terms and conditions. But Im satisfied they do apply and are reflective of 
the normal cheque clearing cycle. And its clear to me that the bank has acted in line with 
these terms and conditions.
Im also satisfied that Santander hasnt misled Mr N about the availability of the funds. Even 
without his knowledge of the terms and conditions, the evidence Ive seen persuades me 
that the funds would not have been showing as available to Mr N at the point he sent the 
phones to the buyer. And so there was no indication that the money had actually cleared into 
his account. 
Mr N appears to have sent the phones after receiving notification of the cheques being paid 
in. But these dont confirm that the balance from the cheques is actually available for him to 
use. And so Im not persuaded the information presented by the bank was misleading, and 
certainly not to the extent that I believe it should bear the responsibility for Mr Ns loss.
Even if the funds were showing as available for use, which Im not persuaded they were, the 
bank would still have been right to withdraw the funds when returning the cheques as 
unpaid. That would have still been in line with the account terms and the clearing process. 
Im very sorry to hear that Mr N has been the victim of a cruel scam. And I understand that 
this has affected him not only financially, but also in terms of his health and wellbeing. But I 
find that its the actions of the fraudster that have caused this harm and Im unable to say the 
bank should compensate him for it.
It is true that Santander didnt handle Mr Ns complaint well. If nothing else, it took longer 
than Id expect to deal with Mr Ns complaint. But I can see that its offered £100 for its 
mistakes here, which seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman