DRN-3605898
The complaint
Mr T complains that Equifax Limited shared his personal information with his son. 
What happened
Last year, Mr Ts son found unrecognised entries on his credit file. Mr T and his son share 
the same first name, middle initial and surname. They also share the same address. 
Mr T has told us details of credit cards, his mortgage and utilities were all found on his sons 
credit file. Mr T says that, as a result, his son asked difficult questions about his finances and 
the issue caused a serious rift within the family. 
Mr T complained to Equifax and it took action to remove any shared links between credit 
files. Notices of disassociation were added to both credit files and Equifax says that step 
should stop reoccurrences of the issue. Equifax sent Mr T a final response and apologised 
for the distress and inconvenience caused, offering £500 compensation. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ts complaint. They agreed Equifax had made 
mistakes that led to Mr Ts information being shared. But they thought its offer of £500 was a 
fair way to resolve Mr Ts complaint. Mr T asked to appeal and said he didnt think Equifaxs 
offer fairly reflected the impact of the issues raised on him and his family. As Mr T asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr T and Equifax agree about the circumstances of his case. Its clear a mistake by 
Equifaxs systems meant Mr Ts entries were recorded on his sons credit file. Equifax 
explains the errors came about due to a matching issue with its systems. This was caused 
by the similarities between Mr T and his sons personal details. I can see their middle names 
are different, albeit with the same initial. And they dont share the same date of birth. But I 
think its fair to say the other details are very similar and Im satisfied the matching errors 
came about due to a systems issue as claimed. 
Equifax has confirmed its taken steps to ensure its systems dont accidentally share entries 
again. But I accept theres no way to completely ensure mistakes wont happen again in the 
future. If they do, Mr T has the option of complaining again. But it appears systems 
measures have been put in place to try and ensure no further mistakes of this nature are 
made. 
I understand both Mr T and his son were impacted by the issues raised. And Mr T has told 
us about a wider fallout amongst his family. But our rules mean I have to focus on how the 
issues raised have affected Equifaxs customer, Mr T. As our investigator has said, Mr Ts 
son is free to complain to Equifax in his own right. Any compensation awarded would focus 
on how the issues raised impacted him. In my review, Ive focused on how the issues raised 
have affected Mr T and whether Equifaxs offer of £500 is fair. 
Mr T has forwarded compensation guidance from another organisation and Ive looked at 
what it says. Ive also considered our approach to compensation. We decide complaints on a 
fair and reasonable basis, were not the regulator and have no powers to fine or punish a 
business. Our awards focus on how a mistake has impacted a consumer, taking the 
circumstances surrounding their complaint into account. So Ive considered whether the 
error led to a financial loss and how the overall situation impacted Mr T, along with the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
I appreciate my decision is likely to disappoint Mr T, but I havent been persuaded to 
increase the level of compensation offered by Equifax. The mistake didnt lead to a financial 
loss. I dont doubt how much frustration was caused for Mr T and that he found having 
private information shared with his son distressing. But Im satisfied the £500 offer Equifax 
has already made fairly reflects what happened and how it impacted Mr T. To put it another 
way, the compensation is very much in line with what I wouldve told Equifax to pay Mr T, 
had no offer been made. 
As Equifax has already taken action to resolve the systems issue and made an offer of 
compensation that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to do 
anything else. If Mr T hasnt already received the compensation offered by Equifax and 
wishes to accept, our investigator can arrange this on his behalf.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint because Equifax Limited has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman