DRN-4141918
The complaint
Miss D complains about Brightside Insurance Services Limited (BISL) and the service they 
provided when she called them after her car broke down.
What happened
Miss D purchased a motor insurance policy, that contained additional breakdown cover, 
through BISL who acted as the broker during this transaction. The motor and breakdown 
insurance policies themselves were underwritten by separate insurers.
Unfortunately, in May 2022 during the policy term, Miss Ds car broke down. So, she called 
BISL assuming they would be able to assist her. But Miss D says BISL were unable to locate 
her policy and so, provided no further assistance. Miss D was unhappy with this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Miss D was unhappy that BISL failed to assist her when her car had broken down. She 
explained this led to her needing to arrange roadside assistance through another company, 
causing her to remain broken down for longer than necessary. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for the upset and inconvenience this caused.
Initially, BISL didnt uphold the complaint, explaining they were unable to locate any records 
to show Miss D had called them on the day in question. But Miss D provided BISL with 
phone records which showed calls had been made to BISLs contact number. So, BISL 
changed their position and upheld the complaint. They explained they had been unable to 
locate a recording of the call, but accepted Miss D had called them and that their service had 
most likely fallen short of their expectations. So, they offered Miss D £50 compensation, plus 
£7.93 to cover the costs of the calls Miss D made. And they offered to consider 
reimbursement of any recovery costs Miss D incurred, with production of a satisfactory 
invoice.
Miss D accepted this offer. And she provided BISL with her bank details to arrange payment, 
expecting the payment to be made within the 14-21 day timescale BISL stated. But this 
payment wasnt received by Miss D.
Miss D escalated her concerns about this through our service, providing evidence that shed 
supplied her bank details. BISL considered this information and accepted the information 
had been supplied to them and they were unable to explain why it hadnt been actioned on 
their system. So, BISL offered to pay Miss D a further £25 to recognise this delay in 
payment. Miss D didnt think this £25 payment was enough and so, she asked our service to 
investigate.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the 
compensation offered to Miss D was fair, recognising the impact caused to Miss D. And so, 
they didnt think BISL needed to do anything more. Miss D disagreed, and she felt BISLs 
handling of her complaint was unreasonable and that the impact on her warranted more than 
the £25 she received. As Miss D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to set out exactly 
what our service is, and isnt, able to consider. The rules we work within are set by the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. And these rules include parameters on 
what sort of issues we can investigate, which are noted as regulated activities. 
In this situation, the regulated activity provided by BISL to Miss D was the advice they gave 
when she called them to understand how to arrange recovery of her broken down vehicle. 
So, this aspect of the complaint is something we can consider. But I note much of Miss Ds 
concerns centre around BISLs failure to pay her the compensation offered in BISLs first 
complaint response. But any payment of compensation after a complaint response is 
classed as part of BISL complaints handling. And under the rules set by the regulator, 
complaints handling is an unregulated activity and so, isnt something our service can 
consider, or comment upon. So, while I do recognise Miss Ds frustration regarding BISLs 
failure to pay her the compensation after she provided them with her bank details, Im unable 
to comment on whether the additional compensation they awarded was fair. It is Miss Ds 
decision whether she chooses to accept, or reject, the additional amount BISL offered in 
their most recent complaint response.
I note that BISL have accepted their error regarding the regulated activity I can consider. I 
note Miss D provided BISL with evidence that she called them on the day in question and 
BISL have confirmed a recording of the call, or any note of what was discussed, cant be 
located. So, they dont dispute Miss Ds testimony that she wasnt provided with the service 
they wouldve expected.
To recognise this failure, BISL offered to pay Miss D £50 compensation plus £7.93 to cover 
the costs of the calls she made. And they explained they would consider refunding Miss D 
any recovery costs she incurred subject to a suitable proof of payment being provided.
I note Miss D initially accepted this offer. And having considered this, I think it is a fair one, 
that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already 
been made.
I think it fairly recognises BISLs failure to direct Miss D appropriately to the correct business 
to arrange recovery. And Ive no doubt BISLs failure to do so led to delays in Miss D being 
recovered, which wouldve been frustrating and upsetting.
But I think it also fairly reflects that BISL were the broker in this situation, and not the insurer 
and provider of the recovery service. So, BISL would never have been able to arrange 
recovery for Miss D. I think it also reflects the fact that, within the policy documents sent to 
Miss D by BISL, it was made reasonably clear who Miss D should call if she needed to be 
recovered. And this wasnt BISL.
But as Ive already stated, I wouldve expected BISL to signpost Miss D appropriately. And I 
think its accepted they didnt. So, if Miss D did incur recovery costs because of this, I would 
expect BISL to consider covering these costs, upon receipt of a suitable invoice. From what Ive seen, I dont think Miss D has submitted this information at this present time.
So, considering the activity I can look at, I think the offer put forward by BISL, and accepted 
by Miss D, is a fair one. And so, I dont think BISL need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
This decision is written on the assumption BISL have arranged payment of the offer to Miss 
D, as theyve been provided with the correct bank details they need. If this isnt the case, Id 
expect BISL to honour the offer they put forward, that Miss D has accepted.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint about Brightside 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman