DRN-3870387
The complaint
Mr B through a representative (for ease of reference Ill just refer to Mr B) complains that 
Embark Services Limited (Embark) has made numerous errors when administering his 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is related to a previous complaint considered by this service. As part of that 
complaint Embark made an offer to waive fees of approximately £1,400 and to pay £1,000 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Part of Mr Bs ongoing issues with Embark was 
its failure to pay this £1,000 which is has now apologised for and paid. I cannot consider the 
late payment of the above as this relates to complaint handling and is not something this 
service can consider.
Mr Bs complaint now is that he wasnt informed that a fund had been suspended when he 
tried to sell down his assets to transfer away from Embark. The funds were transferred on 27 
January 2020, and Embark collected a transfer out fee of £125 before the money was sent 
to the receiving scheme. Mr B then made enquiries and it became clear one fund had not 
been sold as the fund had been suspended at the time.
Embark agreed it shouldve communicated better about this with Mr B but it said it factored 
this into the compensation previously paid. And it said it had already told Mr B via his 
financial adviser that the fund had been suspended in December 2019.  
However, the ombudsman who made the award on the previous complaint had stated he 
hadnt considered this as part of his award made in his decision.
So Embark looked into matters again, and it realised it hadnt sent the information to Mr Bs 
financial adviser as it had thought  so it offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. It also offered to refund the transfer out fee of £125. It said in the meantime it would 
hold the fund without charge and send over the proceeds to the new provider at the earliest 
opportunity.
Whilst Embark conceded it could have been confirmed to Mr B that the fund couldnt be sold, 
it still believes Mr B wouldve gone ahead with the transfer  so it didnt think this had 
changed his position.
Mr B continued to add complaint points and issues whilst the complaint was with this service 
as he felt Embark had made further mistakes that either hadnt been previously considered 
or were new. 
Mr B then made further contact with Embark after the fund was unsuspended in May 2021. 
Embark was unaware of this and believes it hadnt been informed of this fact  but in any 
event it said it wasnt its role to monitor investments. It said it could only act on Mr Bs 
instruction to sell the fund. However, it had previously led Mr B to believe once the fund was 
unsuspended it would be sold automatically  when this was in-fact incorrect. It apologised 
for this and offered an additional £100 for this error. It asked Mr B to complete a further 
investment sale instruction. Which he did and the value of which has now been sent to Mr 
Bs provider.
Our investigator looked into matters and felt that Embarks offer had been fair. He agreed 
that Embark hadnt sufficiently set Mr Bs expectations and communicated clearly but he felt 
the offers made, adequately compensated Mr B for this.
Mr B was unhappy with Embarks answers to his complaint points (plus the time taken) and 
didnt agree with the investigator that the offers made were fair. Ive summarised Mr Bs key 
points relevant to the complaint issues I can consider:
Embark has underplayed the mistake it made in sending a communication to the 
wrong business.
Embark shouldve been aware of the suspension of the fund as it had been told by 
another business but it hadnt passed this information onto Mr B as it shouldve done.
Mr B wondered what wouldve happened had he not discovered the fund hadnt been 
sold.
Mr B agreed he wouldve continued with the transfer regardless as he was keen to no 
longer be a customer of Embark.
Embark had been told of the unsuspension of the fund but again didnt act or pass 
this information onto Mr B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make it clear at this point I cannot consider anything that was already considered 
as part of the other complaint referred to in the above section. I can see that Mr B is in part 
requesting payment for losses/fees referring back to the original complaint but I cannot look 
into that.
Mr B has raised a number of issues whilst this complaint has been with our service and 
weve received responses from Embark about this through the journey of the complaint. But 
for clarity what Ive considered in this decision is the issue with the communication around 
the fund suspension and the issues around the communication of the lifting of that 
suspension.
Mr B has provided us with some detailed submissions, but Ive only summarised the points 
that I think are key to the relevant complaint issues. I dont mean this as a disservice  I 
have taken into account everything he has told us. The level of detail Ive included in my 
decision is merely a reflection of the informal nature of this service.
With regards to the transfer of funds and the issues with the communication around the 
suspension of the fund, its clear Embark didnt provide a good service. It sent the information 
to an incorrect party  therefore Mr B didnt receive this information. And when handling his 
complaint it made further mistakes. It should be noted I cannot consider complaint handling 
when making an award as it is not a regulated activity.
Ive thought about what difference Embarks error made to Mr B and I dont think it changed 
his position. He has agreed that he wouldve transferred out in any event. But I appreciate it 
must have been frustrating for Mr B to have been given wrong information.
Embark also led Mr B to believe that when the fund was unsuspended the transfer of funds would take place essentially automatically but in fact this was incorrect. The evidence 
provided by Mr B suggests the fund provider had notified Embark of the unsuspension, but it 
had previously said it had no record of this. I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr 
B to have again been given wrong information, but I can see the funds have now been sold  
so again I dont think this changed his position.
Embarks offer of compensation for its initial error of not communicating the suspension of 
the fund to Mr B was £100 plus a return of the £125 fee on wind-up of the policy. I think this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate the continuation of service errors 
was frustrating for Mr B but these were administrative errors that dont appear to have a 
material impact.
Embark also apologised and offered another £100 for its error regarding the unsuspension of 
the fund. Again I think this is fair and reasonable  whilst recognising the continued 
frustration felt by Mr B.
Ultimately, its clear Embark hasnt always provided a good service to Mr B and he has 
become increasingly upset with its errors. But I think its also fair to recognise that Embark 
over the course of these two complaints have offered to pay out quite a substantial amount 
of compensation for its service errors. Whilst I appreciate that the continued errors will have 
caused Mr B a lot of annoyance and frustration, I dont think the material impact of these 
errors has been significant. Mr B was still able to transfer his funds (bar the suspended fund) 
which regardless of Embarks communication wouldve been untransferable at the time in 
any event. And whilst it didnt communicate well with Mr B around its unsuspension, Mr B 
was able to transfer the fund despite this.
I appreciate there are other errors that wouldve added to Mr Bs upset that I havent 
commented on, such as the late payment of the offer, but as Ive explained I cannot consider 
this as its not a regulated activity and also relates to the previous decision.
Putting things right
Embark should pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused around the notification 
of the suspension of the fund. It should also refund the transfer out fee as it offered to do so 
of £125.
It should also pay £100 for its incorrect communication regarding the unsuspension of the 
fund.
This brings the total distress and inconvenience here to £200 plus the refund of the transfer 
fee. For the reasons explained, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
Upon Mr Bs acceptance of this decision Embark Services Limited should make payment as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman