DRN-2519463
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) mishandled his legal expenses 
insurance claim.
Ageas uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses policy on its behalf, so any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr H is unhappy that Ageas delayed seeking the recovery of his 
house insurance excess, and also says he suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of 
its handling of his claim and subsequent complaint.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint and recommended Ageas pay £200 compensation. 
The insurer agreed to settle the complaint on this basis and sent Mr H a cheque for this 
amount, but he disagreed as he considers Ageas should pay £300. As Mr H didnt agree, the 
matter has been escalated to me to determine.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint, but I will not be making any further 
award as I consider £200 to be fair compensation in all the circumstances. 
Like the investigator before me, I agree that Ageas should have acted sooner to recover 
Mr Hs home insurance policy excess that he paid as a result of the road traffic accident 
caused by the third party. The terms of his policy state:
Uninsured Loss Recovery
What is insured;
You are covered for Advisers costs to pursue damages claims arising from a road 
traffic accident against those whose negligence has caused you to suffer loss of your 
insurance policy excess or other out of pocket expenses.
I understand Mr Hs home insurance policy was separate and distinct to the motor insurance 
policy/legal expenses provided by Ageas. But the uninsured loss clause does not specifically 
or exclusively limit the other out of pocket expenses to those related to the motor insurance 
policy alone. And given that Mr H was compelled to claim on his home insurance policy to 
make good the damage caused to his garage by the negligence of the third party driver, I 
think the excess he had to pay for this claim can reasonably be construed as an out of 
pocket expense such that it should be covered under his policy with Ageas. I understand 
the policy also excludes claims relating to an agreement you have entered into with another 
person or organisation, but the insurer cannot reasonably provide cover on the one hand 
only to then take it away with the other. If the insurer wants to limit the other out of pocket 
expenses to those related to the motor insurance policy alone, it should clearly specify this 
in its policy wording. 
I appreciate Ageas eventually instructed its solicitors to seek recovery of the home insurance 
excess as a gesture of goodwill. But for the reasons set out above, they ought reasonably to 
have covered Mr Hs claim from the outset and have sought recovery when he first made the 
claim. So I agree that Ageas has caused avoidable delays in reimbursing Mr H the excess 
he paid, and that this has likely caused distress and inconvenience as a result of him having 
to chase this matter and argue his case  as well as being out of pocket of the amount of his 
home insurance excess. 
Mr H also says that Ageas failed to respond to his formal complaint and had to write to the 
insurer numerous times for information and answers. I have taken this into account when 
considering the appropriate level of compensation that should be awarded in this case.
The investigator recommended an award of £200, but Mr H does not consider this to be 
commensurate to the experience he has had with Ageas and submits that further 
compensation should be paid.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to
award further compensation to Mr H, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions
of Ageas and its agents have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or 
upset, which Im not persuaded it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating for Mr H, and I can see that he has 
had to dedicate time and effort into getting this matter resolved. But I dont consider that the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Ageass handling of his claim or subsequent 
complaint would warrant any further compensation at a higher level. The insurer eventually 
recovered the amount Mr H was out of pocket by (albeit as a gesture of goodwill). And if he 
didnt feel he was getting anywhere with his complaint with Ageas, under our rules he was 
entitled to bring the matter to this service within eight weeks  whether he had received an 
adequate response or not. 
Having said that, I do accept that the service Mr H received from Ageas could have been 
better. But for the times it did fall below an acceptable standard, I consider an award of £200 
to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to 
pay £200 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman