DRN-2889985
The complaint
This is a complaint that Ulster Bank Ltd mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs R. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2005. Ulster Bank sold Mrs R 
the policy at the same time that she applied for the card by filling in a form. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Mrs R has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
I think Ulster Bank made Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it 
 although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. Ive looked at an example 
of the credit card application form Ulster Bank used at the time, and I think its very likely this 
form, or one very similar, was used for Mrs Rs application. It has this section:
CREDIT CARD REPAYMENT PROTECTOR (CCRP)
CCRP is designed to protect your monthly credit card repayments in the event of 
accident, illness, death or involuntary unemployment (including redundancy) and is 
available to the Principal Cardholder only. CCRP costs 78p for every £100 shown on 
your statement balance. A minimum charge of 15p is made for outstanding monthly 
balances of less than £20 (no charge is made if your balance is nil). Please see full 
credit card terms and conditions of use for more details. For cover tick this box.
I think this makes it clear that you have a choice, and you need to actively tick the box if you 
want it. 
Ulster Bank didnt recommend the PPI personally to Mrs R as being particularly suitable for 
her individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
was up to Mrs R to decide if it suited her needs and whether it was worth the cost. 
The information on the form could have been a bit clearer, including setting out the limits on 
how long it would pay out for.  But I dont think fuller and clearer information about costs and 
benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. The PPI would 
have paid out on top of any work sick pay and probably for longer, and also on top of any 
redundancy pay. Shes also told us she didnt have savings  and even if she had, the PPI 
would have helped delay when shed need to rely on those. So the PPI could have made 
Mrs R more financially secure if she lost earnings due to long-term sickness or redundancy. 
And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy. 
So, overall, I dont see that the PPI was mis-sold. 
This means Ulster Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R. But 
Ulster Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Ulster Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because Ulster Bank didnt 
tell Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Ulster Bank has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
If it has not already made the payment:
Ulster Bank has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ulster Bank should also pay back to Mrs R any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Ulster Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs R the 
difference between what Mrs R owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission 
and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Ulster Bank 
should also pay Mrs R 8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some 
point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back the tax if 
she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Ulster Bank Ltd does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs R. But Ulster Bank Ltd does have to pay back to Mrs R any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman