DRN-4351752
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited poorly handled a claim under 
her home insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Acromas, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for 
which it takes responsibility.
What happened
In January 2023, Mrs A noticed a damp smell and damage in her kitchen units. She 
contacted her home emergency provider who arranged for a water detection team to trace 
and access the cause. In February 2023, they found a leak behind the shower which they 
believed had been ongoing for some time.
Mrs A made an escape of water claim under her home insurance policy with Acromas. The 
leak had come from Mrs As bathroom, so many tiles had been removed to access it. And 
the leak had soaked through to the kitchen over time, causing damage to the units and the 
food within them, with mould and damp throughout.
Acromas accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster. Dehumidifiers were provided to 
dry out the kitchen. But this was found to be ineffective because the units were still installed, 
and Mrs A was advised her kitchen shouldve been stripped out first. 
Several months went by without any real progress to the claim. Mrs A continually chased 
Acromas but in May 2023 her kitchen still hadnt been stripped out and damage to her 
property was escalating, with paint peeling off the walls and further damp and mould 
appearing.
By early June 2023, the kitchen had been stripped out and dried. Mrs A provided Acromas 
with details of her losses regarding food wastage and increased electricity costs. And she 
provided quotes for a new kitchen and bathroom, asking for a cash settlement under her 
policy to avoid further delays by waiting for Acromas to arrange repairs. 
Acromas made Mrs A aware that she needed to wait for the quotes to be validated before 
she proceeded with the works. But Mrs A was clear that she was unable to wait any longer 
as the matter had already been ongoing for too long, and she was without a fully functional 
kitchen and bathroom.
Mrs A expressed her dissatisfaction to Acromas throughout her claim about the delays / slow 
progress, the behaviour of two agents that attended her property, and the reimbursement of 
her losses. Acromas only addressed the delays aspect as a formal complaint and offered 
£350 compensation to put things right. 
Mrs A brought her complaint to our Service and our Investigator was of the view that it 
should be upheld. He said whilst £350 compensation was fair for the delays, Mrs A should 
be compensated another £150 for the other aspects of her complaint. In addition, he said 
Acromas should reimburse Mrs As losses in respect to her electricity bill and the work shes 
had carried out to repair her property, plus 8% simple interest.
Mrs A was satisfied with this outcome, but Acromas didnt agree. It later said it would 
increase its compensation to £500 if the complaint outcome of upheld was removed, but 
Mrs A didnt accept this. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays and customer service
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) requires Acromas to handle claims promptly and fairly, provide information on the 
claims progress, and to not unreasonably reject a claim. 
Its not in dispute that Acromas failed to handle Mrs As claim promptly. It took four months to 
strip out and dry her kitchen which is an unreasonable amount of time. Acromas 
acknowledge this and has offered compensation of £350 to put things right. I need to decide 
whether thats fair, taking into account the impact this had on Mrs A.
I can see that Mrs A has continuously called and emailed Acromas in an attempt to progress 
her claim. She was given incorrect information about the order in which the strip out / drying 
process should be completed. And a visit from the loss adjustor was missed because Mrs A 
was given no notice of it. So its clear to me Acromas hasnt met its obligations.
In addition, Mrs A complains that one loss adjuster turned up smelling strongly of an illegal 
substance. And another agent left her front door open after attending her property when she 
wasnt home. I appreciate Acromas say theres no evidence of these instances, but Im not 
sure what evidence theyre expecting Mrs A to be able to provide given the nature of the 
allegations. Im satisfied shes given a credible testimony of events and I have no reason to 
disbelieve her.
Ive no doubt this experience wouldve caused Mrs A distress and inconvenience, especially 
as she was concerned the delays were potentially causing further damage to her property by 
allowing the damp and mould to get worse. So Im inclined to agree with our Investigator that 
an additional compensation payment of £150, bringing the total to £500, is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Claim settlement
Under Mrs As policy, Acromas has the ability to choose how to settle a claim at its own 
discretion, this could be to either repair, replace, or cash settle. 
The policy also states Acromas is only required to pay for the replacement of damaged items 
and their matching sets. And if it was able to source these repairs / replacements through its 
own suppliers, then it can limit the cash payment to what it wouldve paid them. This is a 
common term across policies of this nature.
In this case, Mrs A has asked Acromas to cash settle the claim to bring the matter to a 
conclusion as she was unhappy with the delays. Its not in dispute Mrs A proceeded with the 
work to her property without Acromas consent. I can understand why she couldnt wait any longer. As Ive explained above, Acromas had already proven that it wasnt handling this 
claim promptly and Mrs A had understandably lost faith and patience. 
So Im not persuaded that because Acromas didnt validate the costs, it can avoid them 
completely. But by proceeding without consent, Mrs A has taken away Acromas ability to 
arrange or carry out the repairs itself. As a result, it seems clear to me that Acromas wont 
be able to source the repairs through its own supplies at potentially a lower cost. 
So, Mrs As choice to carry out the works without Acromas consent satisfies me it can limit 
any settlement to what it wouldve cost Acromas to source and fit the same specification of 
repair / replacement work had it used its own agents or suppliers. 
As such, Im directing Acromas to cash settle Mrs As claim for the works carried out to her 
kitchen and bathroom in line with the policy terms and conditions, plus interest, subject to 
proof of payment being provided. 
If it hasnt already, Acromas should also reimburse Mrs As losses in respect to her electricity 
bills plus interest. This is subject to Mrs A providing any prove required of the increase.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to:
settle Mrs As claim for repairs by cash payment, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, plus 8% simple interest* from the date Mrs A paid this to the date its 
reimbursed subject to prove of payment.
settle Mrs As claim for losses in regard to her increased electricity costs, plus 8% 
simple interest* from the date Mrs A paid this to the date its reimbursed subject to 
prove of payment.
pay a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. If 
Acromas has already paid its original offer of £350, it only needs to pay the remaining 
£150.
If there are any outstanding elements to Mrs As claim, Acromas should progress 
these promptly and without further delay.
*If Acromas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman