DRN-4357761
The complaint
Mr M complains that Rooftop Mortgages Limited is unreasonably preventing him from 
continuing to let out a property on which it has a residential mortgage. 
What happened
Mr M took out a residential mortgage in 2007 with a different lender. The mortgage was 
transferred to Rooftop in April 2019. 
Mr M has been letting out the property since 2015. He says the previous lender agreed he 
could let the property perpetually and amended the terms and conditions. Rooftop says this 
is a residential mortgage and it didnt consent to Mr M continuing to let out the property. It 
suggested Mr M refinance to a buy to let mortgage. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying Rooftop acted in accordance with the 
mortgage terms and conditions and its own policies.
Mr M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. Im required to explain why I reach my 
decision. But I dont have to comment on or respond to each point made by Mr M or use his 
numbered questions as the format for my decision. I should also say that where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr M took out a residential mortgage in 2007. Rooftop provided a copy of the mortgage 
terms and conditions issued to Mr M by the original lender. Im satisfied these are the 
mortgage terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ms mortgage.
The mortgage terms and conditions say the property must be used as Mr Ms principal 
residence. The mortgage offer issued to Mr M in 2007 says its a condition of the mortgage 
that the borrower must not let the property without prior written consent. Mr M agreed to 
these terms and conditions when he took out the mortgage.
Mortgage lenders can consent to borrowers taking steps that would otherwise be a breach of 
the mortgage terms and conditions, such as letting the property. 
In late 2015 the previous lender gave consent for Mr Ms property to be let on an assured 
shorthold tenancy (AST) for six months. The tenancy  and the lenders consent to it  
expired in mid-2016. Mr M has continued to let the property. He didnt provide evidence of 
the previous lender agreeing to this. 
Mr M contacted Rooftop about a payment deferral in 2020 as his tenants werent paying rent 
(this was during the Covid-19 pandemic). Rooftop told Mr M in mid-2020 that this was a 
residential mortgage and he should consider taking advice about re-mortgaging with a buy to 
let mortgage. Mr M said hed provide evidence he had consent to let the property on a long-
term basis. Rooftop says it didnt receive this from Mr M and couldnt find any record of it in 
the mortgage records. Mr M hasnt provided this evidence to us.
In late 2021 Rooftop received notice from the local authority that Mr M had applied for a 
HMO (house in multiple occupation) licence. It contacted Mr M and there were discussions 
about him letting the property. 
Rooftop wrote to Mr M in late 2021 saying while it would honour consent given by the 
previous lender this would be reviewed at the end of the AST. It said it wouldnt consent to 
the property being let as a HMO and if Mr M wanted to proceed with this hed need to re-
finance. Rooftop also referred to a letter from the local authority about the unauthorised use 
of an outbuilding as self-contained accommodation. 
Rooftop told Mr M its policy is not to consent to properties being let beyond a maximum 
period, which Mr M had already exceeded. 
Mr M says the lender gave consent for the property to be let on a perpetual basis. He didnt 
provide evidence of this. Mr M says the mortgage terms and conditions were amended to 
allow him to let the property. He didnt provide evidence of this either. I dont agree that by 
writing to Mr M at his correspondence address Rooftop (or the previous lender) consented to 
him letting the property indefinitely. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think the previous lender amended the mortgage 
terms and conditions or consented to Mr M letting the property indefinitely. I think its for 
Rooftop to decide whether to consent to Mr M continuing to let the property. 
Rooftops policy is to give consent to let on an AST in certain circumstances (which dont 
apply here). It doesnt consent to long term lets. Mr M has been letting the property since 
2015. From what hes said he has no intention of moving into the property. Rooftop told 
Mr M clearly that it wouldnt consent to him continuing to let the property or use it for a 
purpose other than his principal residence. I think this was consistent with its own policy and 
I dont think it was unfair. I dont think its unfair for Rooftop to suggest that Mr M refinances 
with a buy to let mortgage. That would be consistent with Mr Ms use of the property.
Mr M told Rooftop the same tenants (the two people that signed the AST in 2015) were still 
living in the property. He didnt provide a copy of a recent tenancy agreement to support this. 
Mr M also told Rooftop in late 2021 the reason he applied for a HMO was so that he could let 
the property to more tenants. He told Rooftop there were already locks on internal doors, 
which he said was allowed under the selective licence he currently had.
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Rooftop to send an agent to inspect the 
property and to establish how it was occupied. I think it was reasonable for the agent to 
leave letters for the occupants. The mortgage terms and conditions say that Mr M must allow 
Rooftop (or its agent) access to the property at all reasonable times for any survey or 
inspection which it deems reasonably necessary, for which allow Rooftop can apply a 
charge. The charge for a field agents visit is set out on Rooftops fee tariff.
Rooftop refunded the charge for the field agent sent in early 2022 as it hadnt given Mr M 
prior notice of its intention to send a field agent to the property. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Rooftop to refund fees related to other visits. Mr M has explained his interpretation of various parts of the mortgage terms and conditions. 
For instance, he says Rooftop can only send a surveyor to inspect the property and then 
only if something needs to be fixed. I dont find Mr Ms interpretation reasonable. However, 
whether a contract has been breached is ultimately a matter for a court.
The mortgage terms and conditions say the property must be used as Mr Ms principal 
residence. So theres no need for the terms and conditions to set out the basis on which the 
property could be used for any other purpose. Rooftop doesnt have to provide its internal 
policies to Mr M, and wouldnt consider it fair to require it to do so.
I dont think Rooftop treated Mr M unfairly when it didnt give consent to let and suggested he 
refinance on a buy to let basis. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Rooftop to consent to Mr M continuing to let the property.
I think Rooftop gave a clear explanation as to why additional interest was applied to Mr Ms 
account in some months (in summary, due to interest rate changes and months having 
different numbers of days). 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman