DRN-2655318
The complaint
Ms E says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to go with a credit card (account number ending 2012). The card 
was taken out in or around 1996 and the account was closed in 2004. 
What happened
Ms E is concerned about the high rates of commission that RBS may have potentially 
charged to her card.
Ive therefore been asked to look into the commission that RBS received from the sale of the 
PPI policy. The Financial Conduct Authority has issued guidelines about credit card sales 
where a business expected to get a high level of commission and profit share. Businesses 
can be asked to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium, as well as any interest that may have been paid because of that.
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said that RBS didnt need to do anything to tell Ms E 
about commission because the credit agreement dates corresponding to the credit card 
were outside the time-frames for us to consider commission. Ms E didnt accept our 
adjudicators view so the complaint has to me for a decision.
To be clear, this final decision is about the commission element only. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI and commission 
on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint about the 
commission. In general terms, the rules about commission relate to cases where 
the consumer:
took out the credit the PPI was sold with (for example a credit card) on or after 6 
April 2007; or
took out the credit the PPI was sold with before 6 April 2007, and it was still 
running on or after 6 April 2008.
Ive seen evidence from RBSs own systems that Ms Es card was taken out in 1996 and 
closed in 2004. This means her case isnt affected by the guidelines Ive set out above. 
So Ive checked the dates very thoroughly and as her credit card account was no longer 
running on or after 6 April 2008, I can confirm her case isnt caught by the commission 
guidance. In short, her credit card dates mean RBS doesnt have to pay her any money 
in respect of the commission it got.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms E but because of the dates she held the credit card between, 
Im not upholding her complaint about commission.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, there isnt a commission complaint to uphold 
and so I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman