DRN-4254340
The complaint
Ms K, a sole trader, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt update her address and
telephone number on her Bounce Back Loan (BBL) account. Ms K feels that because she
didnt therefore receive notifications that payments were due on her BBL or that it had fallen
into arrears, that she shouldnt be considered responsible for the subsequent defaulting of
the BBL by Lloyds for non-payment.
What happened
In June 2020, Ms K successfully applied for a BBL for £3,750 and received the loan funds
into her Lloyds business bank account that same month. As per the BBL scheme, Ms K
wasnt required to make any payments towards the BBL for the first twelve months, meaning
that she was scheduled to begin making payments towards the loan in July 2021.
On 28 September 2021, Ms K contacted Lloyds and updated her address and telephone
number with them. However, while Lloyds updated most of Ms Ks accounts, they didnt
update the information on the BBL account. This meant that, regarding the BBL account,
Lloyds continued to send letters and text messages to Ms Ks old address and phone
number, such that she never received them.
Several months later, Ms K was contacted by a debt recovery agency (DRA) at which time
she discovered the Lloyds had defaulted her BBL for non-payment and passed the debt to
the DRA to collect. Ms K wasnt happy about this, especially as she hadnt received any
notices from Lloyds that her responsibility to make payments towards the BBL had begun or
that any BBL payments had been missed. So, she raised a complaint with Lloyds.
Lloyds acknowledged that they hadnt updated Ms Ks details correctly on the BBL account
and they apologised to Ms K for this and made a payment of £80 to her as compensation for
any upset and inconvenience that may have caused. However, Lloyds didnt accept that their
not updating Ms Ks details correctly meant that they were responsible for Ms Ks BBL being
defaulted for non-payment, and so didnt uphold that aspect of her complaint. Ms K wasnt
satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Lloyds should fairly
be considered responsible for Ms K not making payments towards the BBL as Ms K
contended and felt the response Lloyds had issued to Ms Ks complaint already represented
a fair outcome to what had happened. Ms K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 July 2023 as follows:
Ms K feels that, because Lloyds didnt update her address and telephone number on 
her BBL account correctly, and so sent notices about that account to an incorrect 
address and telephone number, that Lloyds should be considered responsible for her 
not making the payments she was required to make on the BBL, when that 
requirement to do so began.
I dont agree with Ms K here, and instead I feel that it was Ms Ks responsibility, as 
the BBL account holder, to have been aware of the status of her BBL account, 
including when she was required to begin to make payments towards it.
One reason I hold this position is because Ms K was given information when she 
took out the BBL as to when she would be required to make payments towards the 
loan. To that effect, I note the following from the what you must pay section of the 
BBL facility email sent to Ms K by Lloyds at the time the loan was taken out in June 
2020:
 you dont need to make any payments for 12 months. You must then 
make 60 monthly payments of £62.50. You must also pay interest that we 
charge for each month. These payments start 13 months after we pay the 
loan to your account.
It must also be noted that when Ms K contacted Lloyds to update her details at the 
end of September 2021, she had already missed the payments towards the BBL that 
she was required to pay in July, August, and September 2021  meaning the BBL 
was already three months in arrears when Ms K contacted Lloyds to update her 
details with them.
It seems to me that there are two possible scenarios here. Either Ms K contacted 
Lloyds soon after she changed her address and telephone number, meaning that the 
letters and text messages that Lloyds sent to the old details about the missed 
payments in July, August, and September were sent at a time when those details 
were correct, meaning that those communications were received by Ms K and not 
acted upon by her. Or Ms K didnt update her address and telephone number with 
Lloyds in a timely manner, meaning that the reason she wasnt receiving the 
communications Lloyds sent in those months was because of her own inaction.
Whichever of the two scenarios described above is correct, it seems clear that Lloyds 
didnt do anything wrong regarding these three payments and how they issued 
messages and letters to Ms K about them. Accordingly, Im satisfied that Ms K should 
be considered solely accountable for not making these payments towards the BBL as 
she was supposed to.
I also feel that Ms Ks responsibility and accountability for her BBL remains intact 
beyond this point. This is because, ultimately, I feel it was Ms Ks responsibility to 
have taken note of when she needed to make payments towards the BBL and to 
have monitored her BBL account  which, in the absence of received statements and 
letters, she could have done either online or by telephoning Lloyds and asking about 
it, or in reference to the information she was given when she opened the BBL  as 
described previously. And I feel that Ms Ks responsibility in this regard remained 
even after shed contacted Lloyds and after Lloyds had failed to update her address 
and telephone number as they should have done.
So, while I accept that Lloyds did make a mistake here by not updating Ms Ks details
correctly, I dont consider that mistake as being the main contributing reason that Ms 
K defaulted on her BBL account. Instead, I feel that Ms K defaulted on her BBL 
because she failed to make payments towards the BBL which it was her 
responsibility to have been aware of and which she should reasonably have been aware of given the information that had previously been provided to her and the 
access to the BBL account she had.
However, Ms K does make a valid point that Lloyds have an obligation to provide a 
default notice to her before defaulting her account. And because Lloyds didnt update 
Ms Ks address and telephone number correctly, the fact is that they didnt provide a 
notice of default to her. Ive therefore considered what I feel may have happened, 
had Ms K received the default notice to her correct address, had Lloyds not made the 
error in not updating it.
Lloyds sent the default notice to the incorrect address on 1 November 2021, and that 
notice gave Ms K 14-days to repay the balance of the BBL, which was £3,785.83. 
Upon review of Ms Ks statements for her Lloyds accounts, its notable that the 
business current account generally retained a low balance around this time, and that 
on 1 November 2021 her personal current account was approximately £630.00 
overdrawn.
However, its also notable that on 8 November 2023  which was within the 14-day
timeframe given on the default notice  Ms K received £5,000.00 into her personal 
current account. And while a large outbound payment made immediately after 
receiving the £5,000.00, which took the balance of the account down to 
approximately £3,100.00, I do feel that there may have been a chance that Ms K 
could have made the necessary payment of £3,785.83 to Lloyds within the 14-days 
to avoid the defaulting of the BBL.
As such, my provisional decision here will be that Ill be upholding this complaint on 
the basis that Lloyds must give Ms K the same opportunity to repay her BBL within 
14-days that she wasnt originally given because of the sending of the default notice 
to the wrong address.
This means that if Ms K is able to pay the £3,785.83 required of her at the time of the 
default notice within 14-days of the date that I issue any future final decision in 
confirmation of this provisional decision  which I provisionally intend to do around 20 
July 2023  that Lloyds must consider the BBL as being paid before the 14-day 
deadline given in the 1 November 2021 default letter had expired, and must amend 
their credit file reporting accordingly from November 2021 onwards to show that no 
default occurred.
However, if Ms K cant take advantage of this opportunity to repay the BBL within 14-
days, then I feel it would be fair for the default that Lloyds recorded following the 1 
November 2021 default notice to remain in place and continue to be reported to the 
credit reference agencies as it presently is.
Lloyds have apologised to Ms K for not updating her details correctly on the BBL 
account, and theyve made a payment of £80 to Ms K as compensation for any 
inconvenience and trouble this may have caused. Matters of compensation can be 
subjective. But given the full circumstances here  including that I dont feel that this 
failure to update Ms Ks details should fairly or reasonably be considered as 
consequential as Ms K contends  the £80 that Lloyds have already paid Ms K does 
feel like a fair amount here. And I can confirm that its commensurate with what I may 
have instructed Lloyds to pay, had they not already done so.
Again, I must reiterate that I dont consider this compensation amount to be in any 
way for Ms K incurring the defaulting of her BBL, but solely for the isolated upset and 
inconvenience she incurred at discovering that her address and telephone number hadnt been updated when it should have been  which, as explained above, I dont 
accept was an event which directly led to Ms K not making payments towards her 
BBL.
Ms K also feels that because her address and telephone number werent updated 
correctly, she was denied access to payment deferment options that were usually 
available to BBL account holders. But such payment deferment options were 
generally only available when payments on a BBL were up to date. And given that 
Ms Ks BBL was already three months in arrears when she attempted to update her 
contact details with Lloyds, I dont feel that she was likely deprived of these possible 
options in the manner that she contends.
Finally, Ms K is unhappy that Lloyds passed her BBL debt to a DRA without her 
consent. However, the transferal of debt to a DRA is a common practice and one 
which is addressed and permitted both by the facility letter emailed to Ms K and by 
the terms of the BBL  which Ms K agreed and consented to when she took the loan. 
And Lloyds didnt require any further authorisation from Ms K beyond this to transfer 
the debt to the DRA as they did.
Ms K responded to my provisional decision and provided information about her personal and 
financial circumstances in 2021, including that she left her previous address in April 2021 
before updating it with Lloyds in September 2021. However, while I acknowledge that Ms K 
was going through a difficult time, I still feel that ultimately, as the account holder, it was for 
Ms K to have monitored and managed her Lloyds accounts, including the BBL. And this 
includes updating her contact preferences with Lloyds.
Ms K has explained that she had a mail redirection in place from her old address but never 
received any redirected letters from Lloyds. But Im satisfied that Lloyds did send letters to 
Ms K at her old address. And I wouldnt hold Lloyds accountable for these sent letters not 
being redirected to her  given that the redirection of letters isnt something over which 
Lloyds have any control.
Ms K has also said that she had several phone calls with Lloyds personal and business 
banking teams during 2021 and at no time did anyone mention the BBL. But I dont feel that 
its unfair or unusual for telephony agents to discuss the specific account theyre asked 
about by the telephoning customer and to not pre-emptively review other accounts without a 
request. And I also feel that these telephone calls gave Ms K an opportunity to update her 
understanding of the present state of the BBL by asking the agents about it  in line with her 
responsibilities as the BBL account holder.
Finally, Ms K feels that Lloyds should have contacted her to offer the PAYG deferment 
options to her before the payments became due on her BBL. But there wasnt requirement 
for Lloyds to reach out to BBL account holders in the manner that Ms K suggests here. And 
Lloyds have confirmed that information about PAYG options was added to their website and 
internet banking platforms for their customers to review. 
And, as per the above, I feel it was incumbent on Ms K as the account holder to have 
monitored and understood her BBL account and to have requested a PAYG payment 
deferral before the payments on the BBL started to become due, if shed wanted to benefit 
from such a deferral.
All of which means that it remains my position that Lloyds havent done anything wrong or 
unfair by administering Ms Ks BBL in line with how the BBL agreement confirmed to Ms K 
when she accepted the loan how the BBL would be administered.Accordingly, while my final decision here will be that Ill be upholding this complaint in Ms Ks 
favour, Ill only be doing so on the limited basis as described in my provisional decision. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms K was wanting, but I hope shell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Lloyds must give Ms K the same opportunity to repay her BBL within 14-days that she wasnt 
originally given because of the sending of the default notice to the wrong address.
This means that if Ms K can pay the £3,785.83 required of her at the time of the default 
notice by 2 August 2023  which is 14-days from the date of this letter  Lloyds must 
consider the BBL as being paid before the 14-day deadline given in the 1 November 2021 
default letter had expired and must amend their credit file reporting accordingly from 
November 2021 onwards to show that no default occurred.
However, if Ms K cant repay the BBL within 14-days from the date of this letter, then the 
default that Lloyds recorded following the 1 November 2021 default notice should remain in 
place and continue to be reported to the credit reference agencies as it presently is.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman