DRN-3263923
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains about the sale of a tradesmans insurance policy by Mark 
Richard (Brokers) Ltd. C is represented by one of its directors, Mr M.
What happened
C approached Mark Richard in November 2017 as it wanted to take out a tradesmans 
insurance policy. Having assessed its demands and needs Mark Richard recommended a 
policy which C took out. The policy renewed the following year on the same basis. In August 
2019 C made a claim on its policy because a labour only sub-contractor had an accident at 
work and was taking action against it. 
After investigating the claim, the insurer of the policy said Cs actual workforce was different 
to that listed on the statement of fact (which said it didnt have any labour only sub-
contractors). That led to C having to pay around £9000 towards the claim that had been 
made. C said Mark Richard was responsible for that loss because it hadnt explained the 
difference between bona fide and labour only sub-contractors to it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted the recommendation Mark Richard 
made was based on the information Mr M (on behalf of C) provided when taking out the 
policy. If Mr M had been unsure what category any contractor fell into he could have asked 
Mark Richard about this. In the absence of any questions from Mr M about this she didnt 
think Mark Richard had done anything wrong in recommending this policy to C. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed approached Mark Richard because of their knowledge and 
expertise and it was their responsibility to ensure the product being sold was fully explained 
to customers. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this was an advised sale then, under the relevant rules, Mark Richard was required to 
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. To do so the rules require it to 
establish a customers demands and needs using information readily available and by 
obtaining further relevant information from a customer. 
Ive thought about whether it did that in this case. I can see Mark Richard did obtain 
information from C prior to making its recommendation. That included how long it had been 
established for and the make up of its workforce. The information Mark Richard recorded 
said two people worked in the business, C had no labour only sub-contractors and five bona 
fide sub-contractors. I appreciate that information appears to have been inaccurate but I 
dont think Mark Richard has done anything wrong here; it sought relevant information from 
C and based the recommendation it made on that information. 
As well as recommending a suitable policy Mark Richard was also required to provide clear, 
fair and not misleading information about it to C. I can see it provided C with a Statement of 
Fact which said: 
You should read this statement of fact carefully and verify that all material facts and 
circumstances have been disclosed to us and that the information contained within it is 
correct prior to the risk being placed on cover
The Statement of Fact set out the number of labour only and bona fide sub-contractors C 
had declared to Mark Richard and contained an Important Notice which said in respect of 
the employers liability section of the policy:
Employers' Liability - proprietors or partners of unincorporated companies do not need to be 
included in the number shown on the schedule but working directors and all other employees 
i.e. direct employees, labour only subcontractors or other self-employed persons for labour 
onlymust be included
I think it would have been clear to C from that wording that the schedule needed to show 
directors and all other employees and that included labour only sub-contractors. 
And if C was unclear about the meaning of these terms it could have sought clarification 
when first providing information to Mark Richard, following receipt of the Statement of Fact or 
at the subsequent renewal. This was a commercial contract so there was a duty on C to 
make a fair presentation of risk (meaning it needed disclose everything it knew or ought to 
have known which would influence the insurers judgement about the risk it was taking on). 
The use of labour only and bona fide sub-contractors isnt unusual in the building industry 
and I think those terms are generally well understood by businesses working in that sector. I 
note C had been established for around 15 years at the point it approached Mark Richard. 
And in any event the Statement of Fact says if you are in any doubt or require clarification of 
what must be declared to us, please discuss this with your agent.
So while I appreciate C has suffered a substantial loss as a result of the claim that was 
made against it I dont think thats come about because of anything Mark Richard got wrong. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M (on behalf of C) to accept or reject my decision before 28 
April 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman