DRN-3087291
The complaint
 Mr M complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his account and havent released 
money held in the account back to him. 
What happened
Mr M had an account which had a card issued by Wirecard and was administered by Pockit.  
In July 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Ms account. At the time Mr Ms balance was £60, which 
Mr M says was made up of his gambling winnings.
Over the following months, Mr M sent emails to Pockit to try and get access to the money in 
his account. In response, Pockit asked Mr M to explain how he was using the account and 
how the account was funded. Mr M told Pockit that he funded his account mainly from 
gambling at bookies and casinos. And had paid his cash winnings into the account. He said 
he wasnt able to provide any evidence of his gambling transactions other than what could 
be seen on his account activity. 
In August 2021, Pockit wrote to Mr M and told him it was closing his account and returning 
his account balance to source. But Mr M never received any money.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He asked Pockit for more  
information about the review it had conducted and the whereabouts of Mr Ms account 
balance. Other than requesting Mr Ms new bank account details, Pockit didnt provide any 
information. The investigator obtained Mr Ms account information and passed this onto 
Pockit. Its not clear why Pockit asked for this information. But to date Mr M is still without his 
funds. 
The investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint He didnt think Pockit had demonstrated that Mr M 
wasnt entitled to the money in his account. To put things right he said Pockit should release 
Mr Ms balance to him. Mr M agreed. Pockit didnt respond. So, the matter has been referred 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pockit has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. And it must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in 
full or partially while they carry out their review. And ask customers for information about 
payments made into an account to ensure it is complying its legal obligations. So, I cant say 
Pockit treated Mr M unfairly when it decided to review Mr Ms account  it was entitled to do 
so. And having reviewed the terms and conditions of the account, it did so in line with these 
too.
Pockit asked Mr M for information about how he was using his account  in particular where 
the money in his account originated. I can see from the emails between Pockit and Mr M that 
he said the money had come from gambling at casinos and bookmakers. But apart from the 
activity on his account he didnt have anything to support his explanation. It appears that 
Pockit werent satisfied with Mr Ms explanation. And decided that Mr M wasnt entitled to 
balance in his account (£60). And based on recent information weve received from them, 
returned the £60 to source. But Pockit hasnt provided this service with the information it 
relied on to take this action. It also hasnt provided any evidence to show what investigation 
it conducted to satisfy itself that Mr M wasnt entitled to the money in his account. 
I accept that Mr M hasnt been able to provide any paperwork to support what hes said, 
such as a betting slip. But from looking at his account statements I can see that Mr M 
regularly made and received payments to and from different gambling businesses. And paid 
cash into his account. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I dont find Mr Ms 
explanation implausible.
In summary, based on the information Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Pockit carried out a 
thorough enough review on Mr Ms account to make the decision they did. Ultimately, Pockit 
should be satisfied that Mr M wasnt entitled to the money to return it back to the original 
source. And as theyve not provided any evidence to support the actions it took, I cant say 
how Pockit satisfied themselves that Mr M wasnt entitled to the funds in his account. So, in 
this particular case, because of the lack of information, I cant be satisfied that Pockit has 
treated Mr M fairly. It therefore follows that Pockit should refund Mr M the balance of his 
account, which according to Mr Ms account statements at the time was £60.
My final decision
 My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ms complaint, Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited should:
Refund Mr M the amount of money in his account at the time the account was 
restricted - £60
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman