DRN-4465277
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined her travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of what happened so I will only summarise events here. 
Mrs C made a claim for the costs of a one night hotel stay and an eight day group-based 
wildlife trek on her annual multi-trip travel insurance policy with Admiral.
Mrs C had originally been due to leave the UK on 9 March 2023 and fly to a country Ill call 
C via a country Ill call S. She would spend one night in a hotel in C on arrival, and start a 
wildlife trek the following day there on 10 March 2023. However, Mrs Cs flight to S ended up 
being delayed, by just under 10 and a half hours, and so as shed have missed her 
connecting flight from S to C and found it difficult to catch up with the trek once it had 
started, she chose to abandon her trip. 
Admiral declined Mrs Cs claim and said the circumstances of it werent covered. It 
maintained that decline following a complaint from Mrs C too, so Mrs C brought that 
complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked at what had happened.
Our investigator didnt think Admiral had acted unreasonably. They thought it had declined 
the claim in line with the terms of Mrs Cs policy, and so they did not recommend her 
complaint be upheld. 
Mrs C disagreed with that and explained why she thought she was fully entitled to the costs 
claimed for. She said she was delayed by more than 24 hours for the wildlife trek itself so it 
should have been covered in view of the policy wording. She said Admiral had been able to 
write the policy in a way that allowed it to get out of paying legitimate claims, shed bought 
the policy on the basis of it covering eventualities, everyone shed spoken to couldnt believe 
the situation she was in, and we should have Admiral change its policies retrospectively.
So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im very sorry to disappoint, I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Admiral to decline this claim. Let me explain why. 
Admiral had a responsibility to handle Mrs Cs claim both promptly and fairly, and not 
reject it unreasonably. The cover available was contained within the relevant policy 
documentation, and having considered this I note the abandonment provision was 
described in the policy terms and conditions as:
Abandoned international departure (outbound journey only)
We will pay you up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule if you decide 
to abandon your trip because the departure of your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train 
is delayed by more than 24 hours (or cancelled with no alternative transport available 
within 24 hours of the scheduled departure), because of strike, industrial action, 
adverse weather conditions or mechanical breakdown. 
In the circumstances of this claim Mrs Cs flight wasnt delayed by more than 24 
hours. It was delayed by about 10.5 hours, which wasnt in line with the requirements 
of the policy. I understand why Mrs C chose to abandon her trip, but I cant fairly 
conclude that it was unreasonable of Admiral to find that the abandonment 
requirements hadnt been satisfied on this occasion given the minimum time limits 
hadnt been met.
Consideration was given to whether Mrs Cs claim could be covered under the 
policys delayed departure provision too, but this section only applied where the 
insured had eventually gone on their trip. That didnt apply in the circumstances of 
Mrs Cs claim though, and so again I cant fairly conclude that it was unreasonable of 
Admiral to find that the delayed departure requirements hadnt been satisfied on this 
occasion either.
I appreciate Mrs C says she was delayed by more than 24 hours for the trek itself 
and should be covered in line with the wording of her policy. The word trip is 
however specifically defined within this policy as meaning:
A journey that begins and ends at your home during the period of insurance that 
is either within the UK where you have paid a fee to stay in pre-booked 
commercially-operated accommodation (more than 25 miles away from your home 
for more than two consecutive nights), or outside the UK.
So the start of Mrs Cs trip wouldnt have been when the trek in C started. Her trip 
was considered to begin and end at her home. And again, the word home was 
specifically defined as The UK address where you live permanently.
I recognise that Mrs C will be disappointed by this decision and I am of course sorry 
to hear about the circumstances that led to her abandoning her trip. I am however 
unable to find that Admiral acted unreasonably in declining this claim.
This service is unable to direct an insurer to rewrite its policies. An insurer is entitled 
to choose what risks it does and does not want to cover and will underwrite its 
policies with this in mind. I understand that Mrs C strongly disagrees with Admirals 
position, but her policy wasnt designed to cover every eventuality and Admiral 
declined this claim in line with the relevant policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman