DRN-2711895
The complaint
Mr C complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) put 
him at a disadvantage, by not informing him sooner that some of his cover would be 
cancelled. 
What happened
Mr C took out a protection plan with Royal London in 2016. This comprised of life cover, 
unemployment cover and waiver of premium (unemployment) cover. 
The unemployment cover elements of Mr Cs policy were due to run until he reached 
retirement age. And were underwritten by another insurer which I will refer to as S. 
In November 2019, S advised Royal London that it would be putting its business into an 
orderly run off and would not be accepting new applications or renewals. And in March 
2020, S told Royal London that it would no longer be able to continue to provide 
unemployment cover. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy state the following:
We reserve the right to withdraw Unemployment Cover and Waiver of Premium 
(Unemployment) or alter their terms if [S] is unable to continue to provide this cover 
on the current terms. If this happens well try to find an alternative provider, but if we 
cant, the cover will be cancelled or altered from the next anniversary of the date 
cover started. Well give you 30 days written notice of any change of insurance 
provider and well tell you at least 90 days before we cancel the cover or alter its 
terms. 
Royal London wrote to Mr C in March 2020. It told him S was no longer able to provide his 
unemployment cover. And it said because of this, the cover would be cancelled in July 2020. 
Mr C complained to Royal London. In summary he said he thought it should have informed 
him of the changes at S as soon as it became aware in November 2019, and shouldnt have 
waited until March 2020. He said he thought Royal London had gained an advantage during 
this time, during which it continued to collect his premiums. Mr C also said had he been 
informed sooner, he would have had greater opportunity to find a new policy. He wanted 
Royal London to continue his unemployment cover, or pay him a substantial amount of 
money to end the policies. 
Royal London said it hadnt known Mr Cs policy would need to be cancelled when it 
received advice from S in November 2019 about its intentions. It said there were only certain 
circumstances in which the unemployment cover could be cancelled, and that these were 
not triggered until March 2020. It said it had explored alternative ways to offer continued 
cover for the unemployment policies, but had been unsuccessful. And it was unable to 
underwrite the unemployment cover itself. 
Unhappy with Royal Londons response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Royal London 
had acted unfairly. And they didnt think it was unreasonable that it hadnt advised Mr C of 
the changes sooner than it did. 
Royal London made no further comments on the investigators view. However, Mr C 
disagreed. He said he thought it was made clear to Royal London in November 2019, that S 
would not be renewing policies, so there was an unreasonable delay in him being advised of 
this, and this had unfairly disadvantaged him. 
Mr C asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Royal London has a 
responsibility to communicate in a way which is clear fair and not misleading. And must act 
honestly and fairly.
Having done so, I dont think Royal London has done anything wrong. And Ill explain why. 
The terms of the unemployment cover state the cover can be withdrawn, or the terms 
altered, if S is no longer able to provide the cover. And they state that if an alternative 
provider cant be found, the cover will be cancelled. And thats what happened here, 
as S was no longer able to underwrite the cover. Royal London has also said it 
attempted to find another insurer to step in, but it was unsuccessful. 
The policy terms also state Royal London must provide 90 days notice before 
cancelling the cover. And Im satisfied that Royal London adhered to this by writing to 
Mr C on 27 March 2020, before his cover was cancelled on 1 July 2020. 
S notified Royal London in November 2019, that it would not be accepting new 
applications for cover, or renewals. However this didnt automatically mean S would 
no longer under-write Mr Cs unemployment cover. Mr Cs cover was not renewable 
annually, and was set to run until he retired. So I dont think Royal London could 
reasonably be expected to have known that it would definitely have to cancel Mr Cs 
cover, or when this might happen. And because of this, I dont think Royal London 
needed to make Mr C aware of the changes at that time, as it wasnt clear that he 
would be impacted, or when. 
Ive seen evidence of a letter sent to Royal London dated 2 March 2020, which said 
S was no longer able to provide the unemployment cover. And it instructed Royal 
London to notify policyholders that the cover would be cancelled. Royal London 
wrote to Mr C on 27 March 2020, notifying him of what had happened, and that his 
unemployment cover would be cancelled on 1 July 2020. Considering the level of 
action Royal London would likely have needed to take to send a mailing to all of its 
affected customers, I dont think the time taken between it being informed by S, and 
writing to Mr C, was unreasonable. Mr C has questioned whether it was fair for Royal London to continue to collect 
premiums for his unemployment cover after November 2019. Mr C was covered by 
his unemployment policies up until the date they were cancelled in July 2020, so the 
insurer was still on risk during that time. Had Mr C made a valid claim which met the 
policy terms, before his unemployment cover ended, its my expectation that this 
would have been paid. And Ive seen nothing which causes me to think this wouldnt 
have been the case. So it follows that I dont think it was unfair for Royal London to 
continue to collect Mr Cs premiums, up until the policy ended. 
I appreciate Mr C would have preferred to have continued with his unemployment cover as 
he expected when he took it out. And Ive noted his comments about the difficulties in finding 
a new policy, and the extra time he would have had to do this, if hed been made aware 
sooner that his cover would be cancelled.  However, as Ive explained, I dont think Royal 
London has acted unfairly, so it would be unreasonable for me to hold it responsible for the 
unfortunate situation Mr C found himself in. And so I wont be asking Royal London to do 
anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman