DRN-1760308
The complaint
P is a limited company. Its director, Mr R, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted 
access to its foreign currency account.
What happened
HSBC wrote to P on 4 December 2018, saying that it needed to update and confirm some of 
its business details as part of its efforts to prevent fraud and financial crime. It asked that P 
arrange a telephone appointment. And it said the information had to be provided by 25 
February 2019.
Mr R completed the review over the phone on 28 January 2019. And he says that he was 
then told that no further information was required. So it came as a shock to him when he 
found that he couldnt use Ps foreign currency account on 1 May 2019. He complained later 
that day.
HSBC responded on 3 May 2019 to say that Ps account was being reviewed in line with the 
banks regulatory requirements  and that the restrictions on the account couldnt be 
removed until this was complete. So Mr R referred his concerns to us.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. He found that it had asked P for further information after the telephone 
appointment  but as this wasnt provided, it had restricted the account before later closing it. 
He thought it had been entitled to do so under the terms and conditions of the account, and 
given the banks broader regulatory responsibilities. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said he didnt receive any further requests for 
information from HSBC  if he had, he wouldve acted on them to prevent disruption to his 
business. He thought the bank had been intent on closing Ps account from the outset and 
used the review to justify its decision. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has explained that it needed further information from P to enable it to better 
understand its business and how it operates. Banks have a number of legal and regulatory 
responsibilities to make checks like this  and can face significant penalties if they dont. So I 
dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in asking P for certain information about its business.
While I can see that Mr R completed a telephone review following HSBCs initial request, 
HSBC has shown that it sent P a letter on 28 January 2019 with a further request. This 
thanked Mr R for the information previously given, but said that there were some additional 
gaps to fill in  so it asked that he get in touch by the original deadline of 25 February 2019. 
And it reminded him that the account could be closed if he didnt response in time. As HSBC didnt receive the further information it needed from Mr R by the deadline, it wrote 
to P again on 26 February 2019 to say that it would be restricting the account on 1 May 
2019. It said that if Mr R wished to retain the account, he should call to book in a further 
telephone review. With no further contact from Mr R, the account was restricted on 1 May.
As above I think HSBC was entitled to ask P for information and I dont think its specific 
requests were unreasonable here. And as it didnt receive that information, I dont think its 
decision to restrict the account was unreasonable either. This was carried out in line with the 
terms and conditions of Ps account, which allowed services to be withdrawn with 60 days 
notice. HSBC provided that notice to P in its letter of 26 February 2019.
Mr R says he didnt receive either of HSBCs letters, which is regrettable. But I can see that 
both were correctly addressed, so if they went astray thats not something I can hold the 
bank responsible for. I note the bank also took additional measures, in the form of pop-up 
messages on Ps online banking pages, to make Mr R aware of what was happening and the 
need for him to get in touch.
So looking at everything, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in its review of Ps account 
or in its decision to restrict access from 1 May 2019.
Matters have moved on since the complaint was first referred to us, in that HSBC has since 
closed Ps accounts altogether. I understand Mr R has made a separate complaint about 
that decision. And I note hes also unhappy with how long it took the bank to release Ps 
funds. I cant consider either of those matters within this complaint  so if Mr R retains 
concerns that hed like us to look into, he should let our investigator know. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman