DRN-3995536
The complaint
Mr S complains about Monzo Bank Ltd. He says that Monzo didnt do enough to protect him 
from becoming the victim of a scam and would like Monzo to refund him the money he has 
lost as a result of being scammed. 
What happened
Mr S came across an advert on Facebook from a supposed expert in helping people to trade 
in Cryptocurrency for profit. He was looking to slow down and work less as he had a difficult 
manual job which was taking physical toll on his body.
Mr S completed a contact from and was contacted by an account manager (now known to 
be the scammer) who said they would help him to achieve good returns on an investment.
Mr S was persuaded to invest. However, in late December 2022, Mr Ss account showed 
that he had lost the supposed profits he thought he had been making. He got in touch with 
the scammer who persuaded him to invest further in order to recoup his losses as his 
account had apparently been mis-managed by an individual who no longer worked for them.
Mr S later discovered that he had been the victim of a scam and complained to Monzo.
Monzo didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr S brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator thought that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld in part. Mr S accepted this, 
but Monzo did not, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Ss complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Was Mr S the victim of a scam?
It is not in dispute that Mr S was the victim of a scam here  he was persuaded to purchase 
crypto and transfer this onto the scammer  and once the money had reached the scammer 
was unable to access his supposed profits of get his money back. 
Ive listed the payments Mr S made below.
Date Payment type Payee Amount
03/12/2021 Debit card CRO £0.06
03/12/2021 Debit card CRO £3,993.14
11/12/2021 N/A CRO £0.06 CREDIT
14/12/2021 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £50.00
14/12/2021 Debit card CRO £2.522.61
14/12/2021 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £500
15/12/2021 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £50
15/12/2021 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £80
20/12/2021 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £3,000
23/12/2021 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £9,950
29/12/2021 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £3,000
07/01/2022 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £2,000
12/01/2022 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £3,000
02/03/2022 Faster payment Foris Dax MT Ltd £5,873
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr S isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr S authorised the payments.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr S did authorise the payments in question here. They 
were made by with his debit card and under his instruction for the faster payments. I 
understand that Mr S had been tricked by the scammer into instructing Monzo to make the 
payments  but while MR S never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this 
doesnt change the fact that he authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance.
Recover of the payments Mr S made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Monzo to do anything further 
until it had been notified there was a scam.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Monzo) and the merchants (here, CRO).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would unlikely have been successful. This is 
because CRO is a legitimate company and provided the services that Mr S had requested of 
it  the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet of Mr Ss 
choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is therefore a separate 
matter  and so a successful chargeback would likely never have been possible  and so I 
dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Similarly, for the payments made via the Faster Payment scheme to Foris, while Monzo could have contacted Foris to try and recall the funds that had been sent, again the service 
Mr S requested (the purchase of crypto) had been completed, and so Foris had done what 
was asked of it here too, and would have declined the request.
Should Monzo have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Monzo reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr S made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Mr S authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Monzo should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr S and the payments in question here.
The first eight payments
Having considered the first eight payments Mr S made, I dont think that there was anything 
that should have prompted Monzo to take any extra steps before processing Mr Ss payment 
instructions. Mr S appears to have opened his Monzo account with the intention of 
purchasing crypto, so there was no other activity for Monzo to compare his usual spending 
pattern with, and none of the payments up until this point were of significantly large value.
Payment nine
This payment was nearly £10,000  a significant amount of money. And given what Ive said 
above about Monzos responsibilities above, unusual enough for Monzo to intervene. At this 
point Monzo should reasonably have contacted Mr S establish whether the transaction 
posed any possibility of placing him in financial harm before processing it. But it did not do 
so.Had Monzo contacted Mr S, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Mr S about the 
payment  including what the payment was for, and the surrounding context  and to 
proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scam.
Nothing Mr S has said leads me to believe that he had been coached, or told to lie about the 
payments he was making, and so I think that had Monzo acted as I would have expected, it 
would quickly have established that Mr S was likely the victim of a scam.
By January 2019, Monzo should already have had a good understanding about how scams 
like the one Mr S fell victim to work  including that a consumer is often persuaded to move 
money from one crypto-wallet in their own name to the scammer. 
Had Monzo given Mr S a meaningful warning that what he had told it bore all the hallmarks 
of a sophisticated scam  I think that he wouldve taken this warning seriously and not taken 
the risk of continuing with the payment.
So, I think that Monzo couldve prevented Mr Ss loss from payment nine onwards.
I have taken into account that Monzo has said that it cant be expected to intervene on every 
payment made in relation to the purchase of crypto  and I agree. Not every payment for the 
purchase of crypto is a scam  and I understand that lots of customers use Monzo as their 
method for conducting such transactions. But payment nine was for a significant amount of 
money, and while I would not expect Monzo to intervene with every payment made, it does 
have a responsibility as outlined above to protect its customers from potential financial harm.
Should Mr S bear some responsibility for the loss?
While I do consider that Monzo should have prevented the payments made from payment 
nine, I do also have to consider if Mr S should bear some responsibility for the loss here too, 
by way of contributory negligence.
Mr S was not a sophisticated investor  and was persuaded by the professional appearance 
of the scammer, and the advice that it gave him. The scammer had built trust with Mr S by 
encouraging him to invest slowly as first and allowing him to make a small withdrawal from 
his supposed investment. I also cant see that there much information online about the 
scammer when Mr S made his payments  so even if he had researched them himself, I 
dont think he would have found anything to give him cause for concern.
I understand that Monzo believes that the onus is on the consumer to conduct their own 
research and to invest sensibly. It goes on to say that genuine investment platforms carry 
the caveat that capital is at risk, and that consumers who make poor investment choices 
are not reimbursed due to lack of research or inexperience.
But this was not a genuine investment  it was a scam. And Monzo was the expert here - 
and had more knowledge on the intricacies of these types of scams. 
It follows that I am satisfied no deduction for contributory negligence should be made in this 
case.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I dont think that Mr S would have continued to make the payments 
from payment nine onwards had Monzo done what it ought to and intervened.
So Monzo should refund Mr S £23,823.00.It should also pay Mr S 8% simple interest from the date the payments were made until the 
date it makes payment to Mr S (minus any lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman