DRN-1169436
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain about the sale of a single premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy which they bought in 1998 in connection with a personal loan arranged by 
Nationwide Building Society. They complain the policy was mis-sold. 
What happened
Mrs R and Mr R said they did not know PPI was optional and they didnt need the PPI 
because they had good employee benefits and other insurances and savings. Our 
adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. He said that Nationwide had made it 
clear to Mrs R and Mr R that the policy was optional and that theyd been given enough clear 
information to make their own decision about it. Mrs R and Mr R didnt agree with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again by an ombudsman.
The policy only covered Mrs R, so sometimes I will only mention her; but I will refer to both 
Mrs R and Mr R where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out on our website 
about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint them, so 
Ive set out my reasons below.
I first looked at whether Nationwide made them aware the policy was optional. They 
specifically complain they were not told this. 
The sale was conducted at a meeting. I dont know what exactly was said to them during the 
sale. But Mrs R and Mr R signed the loan application form to say YES, I would like to take 
advantage of the peace of mind offered by LoanCare Cover I also saw they could have 
ticked or signed the NO option on the same page. So because they had that choice, I think 
the policy was shown as an optional product.
Nationwide told us Mrs R and Mr R also received a loan agreement after the sale. The 
agreement referred to Optional Credit Insurance which they both signed. So I also think it 
was made clear to them on that document that PPI was optional.
Nationwide told us that in line with its practices at the time, this sale was non-advised. And 
Mrs R and Mr R say the sale was advised. But I dont think its clear whether they were given 
a recommendation to take the PPI. So Ill continue on the basis the sale was non-advised. 
For non-advised sales, Nationwide only had to give Mrs R and Mr R enough clear 
information so they could make their own decision. So I first looked at their circumstances at 
the time of the sale to see what sort of cover they might have needed.Mrs R was eligible for the PPI cover, so she satisfied the criteria to be able to buy it; they 
had life insurance, savings and a healthcare policy but I dont think these things covered 
exactly the same things as the PPI. And the PPI meant they could keep their savings for 
other expenses; Mrs R said she was entitled to at least six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was off sick. So I think they probably would have 
needed cover if she couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. And I 
think the benefit from the PPI would have given Mrs R some income in addition to and for 
longer than her sick pay to make the loan repayments.
I then looked at the information that Nationwide gave to Mrs R and Mr R about the PPI to 
see if they could have made an informed decision.
I dont know how the things not covered by the policy (the exclusions) were explained to 
them. But I dont think Mrs R would have been affected by the main ones. So even if theyd 
been given detailed information about the exclusions, I dont think it would have changed 
their decision about buying the policy.
I have seen the loan agreement did set out the cost of the loan and the cost of the PPI 
policy, together with the total monthly cost Mrs R had to pay. So the costs of this PPI were 
set out quite clearly. I dont know what was said to her during the meeting about costs, but 
the loan agreement was signed by Mrs R and Mr R. So I think they probably saw the cost of 
the policy at the time of the sale. And I dont think that any more detailed information about 
the cost and benefit would have changed their mind about buying it.
In summary, I think Mrs R and Mr R were probably aware the policy was optional. I also think 
that they still would have bought the policy even if theyd been given more detailed 
information. This means that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman