DRN-2902900
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs D complain an international payment they made with HSBC UK Bank Plc was 
returned and as a result they got back a lower amount than they had deposited.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr C and Mrs D made an online transfer of £28,000 from their HSBC 
account to a euro account they hold with another bank (Bank C). Mr C and Mrs D were 
charged for making this transaction. 
The transfer was unsuccessful, and the funds were returned to Mr C and Mrs Ds HSBC 
account. Because of the relevant fees and a different currency exchange rate, when the 
funds were returned this resulted in Mr C and Mrs D receiving over £1,500 less than the 
payment sent.   
Mr C and Mrs D complained to HSBC as they said this wasnt their error and felt HSBC 
hadnt processed the transfer correctly. HSBC investigated the complaint and said they 
hadnt done anything wrong so didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr C and Mrs D remained unhappy so referred the complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint and didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
Mr C and Mrs D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
To uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that HSBC did something wrong or that 
they didnt provide clear information to Mr C and Mrs D about what the potential 
consequences with the transfer being returned could be. 
HSBC have shown us internal records detailing the return of funds and the reason provided 
by Bank C that the information provided was incorrect. But Mr C and Mrs D have said that 
they provided the correct details for the transfer. 
So Ive checked the details provided by Mr C and Mrs D against the information HSBC used 
to process the transaction. From the information HSBC have given us it shows the details 
they used were the same as those provided by Mr C and Mrs D. I cant be certain if these 
details were correct but I am satisfied that HSBC used the information they were given by Mr 
C and Mrs D so I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong here. 
Ive gone on to consider if HSBC let Mr C and Mrs D know what the consequences of a 
returned transfer would be. HSBC has sent us screenshots of the information Mr C and Mrs 
D would have seen when making the transfer. 
I can see above where it asks Mr C and Mrs D to confirm the transfer, it says if this 
payment cannot be made or is returned by the foreign bank for any reason, the payment will 
be reversed. If there is movement in exchange rates which leads to a gain or a loss, this will 
be passed to your account. In the circumstances I think Mr C and Mrs D were made 
sufficiently aware of the potential consequences of the payment not being successful, before 
it was made. So, I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong in using the lower currency 
exchange rate available at the time the funds were returned to them. 
So, given what Ive said, I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong in respect of the 
transfer and the return of funds, and from what Ive seen they have correctly used all the 
details provided by Mr C and Mrs D. I do understand that Mr C and Mrs D will be 
disappointed with my decision, but I hope they understand why I wont be upholding their 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold Mr C and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman