DRN-3497835
The complaint
Miss B says that Santander UK Plc unfairly handled her claim for reimbursement for a 
faulty laptop that she had purchased via a credit card.
What happened
In October 2020 Miss B purchased a laptop via an online marketplace site. She paid 
the purchase price of £263.48 with the credit card she held with Santander.
When the laptop was delivered Miss B confirmed her order. Unfortunately, around one 
month later the laptop developed a fault and Miss B was unable to use it. She contacted 
the merchant that had supplied the laptop. The merchant asked for photos of the problem 
which Miss B supplied. After some exchanges the merchant asked Miss B to open a 
dispute via her order.
Miss B says she tried to open the dispute but wasnt able to as it was now outside of the 
30- day time limit for doing so. She contacted the merchant and explained the problem 
and asked where she should return the laptop. Miss B says the merchant stopped 
responding to her enquiries.
Miss B contacted Santander and disputed the charge on her credit card for the laptop, 
explaining that it was faulty. Santander declined a chargeback claim for the laptop. It said 
the chargeback scheme rules were provided by Mastercard and not itself. Santander said 
that as the laptop was supplied with a warranty and hadnt been returned by Miss B it 
couldnt pursue a chargeback for her.
Miss B was unhappy at Santanders response and complained to it. Santander said it 
was upholding Miss Bs complaint because it hadnt looked at whether she could make 
a claim for reimbursement via section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said it 
would now forward her claim to the section 75 department.
Santander, having reviewed Miss Bs claim under section 75, declined it. It said that it 
was a requirement for any claim under section 75 to have an unbroken debtor-creditor-
supplier chain, but this wasnt the situation with Miss Bs purchase of the laptop. This was 
because she had ordered and paid for the laptop via the online marketplace site and not 
directly with the merchant whod supplied the goods.
Miss B complained to this service about Santanders decision. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that she thought Santander 
had handled Miss Bs claim for reimbursement for the defective laptop fairly.
Our investigator said she thought Santander had reasonably applied the chargeback 
scheme rules. She also said she was satisfied that as the debtor-creditor-supplier chain 
had been broken section 75 couldnt apply.
Miss B disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she had tried to make 
contact with the merchant, but they had stopped responding to her. Shed been unable 
to send the laptop back as it had been delivered from China via Spain and she had no 
return address. Miss B said shed asked how to return it but got no response from the 
merchant.
Miss B also said she had lost the opportunity to use the dispute service run by the 
online marketplace because of the time shed taken trying to resolve the issue directly 
with merchant. The dispute scheme had only operated for 30 days after delivery of the 
goods.
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to 
me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
The issue for me to consider here was whether Santander had handled Miss Bs claim for 
reimbursement of the cost of the laptop fairly. I didnt think it was disputed that there was 
a fault with the laptop as the photos clearly showed a problem with its functioning. 
However, the cause of the fault was unknown though it appeared to have developed 
around one month after Miss B had received it.
When Miss B had made her claim to Santander, it had first considered using the 
chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing 
payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the 
companies which run the card networks, here thats MasterCard. It allows customers to 
ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services they've 
paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund.
The Card Scheme sets out the necessary conditions under which a claim can be 
processed. These are that the cardholder engaged in the transaction, the cardholder 
contacted the merchant to resolve the complaint and the merchant refused to adjust the 
price, repair the item or replace it. It also says that for disputes involving goods the 
cardholder must have either returned the item or have informed the merchant that the 
goods were available for pick-up.
If Santander feels that a claim won't be successful, then it doesnt have to raise a 
chargeback. So, Santander isnt obliged to make a chargeback if it concludes that the 
chances of success would be remote. Santander said that as the laptop came with a 
one- year warranty and Miss B hadnt returned it then her claim didnt meet the criteria 
for the chargeback scheme to apply. And it decided not to a raise a chargeback for 
Miss B.
Looking at the evidence, I was satisfied that Miss B had engaged in the transaction as 
she had used her credit card to pay for the laptop. Id also seen she had contacted the 
merchant and raised the problem with them. The merchant at first appeared to have 
responded to Miss Bs enquiries but having told her to open a dispute via the online 
marketplace it then failed to respond to her when she informed it that this wasnt 
possible. Id seen Miss B had told the merchant on at least two occasions that she 
couldnt follow its advice to open a dispute. She had also asked about how she could 
return the laptop during this exchange though the merchant hadnt responded to that 
query either. Miss B said that communication had then stopped between her and the 
retailer. Miss B provided copies of her correspondence with the merchant to Santander 
when making her claim.
Miss B said that as her complaint about the laptop had arisen after thirty days from 
receipt of the goods, she wasnt able to use the dispute service available from the online 
marketplace. She said that seeking reimbursement via Santander was her only option.Looking at the criteria for a chargeback I didnt think Santander had acted fairly here in 
declining to pursue a claim for Miss B. I thought Miss B had provided sufficient evidence 
that the merchant, by ceasing its contact with her, had refused to assist her with her 
claim. Id also seen that she had made enquiries about returning the laptop. There didnt 
appear to have been a return address provided with the laptop as it had been posted 
from China via Spain. Miss B said she needed an address to return it to.
I thought in these circumstances that Santander hadnt considered whether Miss B had 
satisfied the criteria of having informed the merchant that the laptop was available for 
collection. It appeared to have only considered that as Miss B still had the goods then the 
criteria werent met. So, I thought Santander could have done more about assisting Miss 
B with a chargeback claim.
I also thought that had Santander proceeded with a chargeback claim on behalf of Miss 
B that it was more likely than not to have been successful. This was because the 
merchant had stopped responding to Miss B so I didnt think it likely it would have 
responded to Santander and defended the claim either.
Id seen that Santander had considered whether a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 could be pursued. Under section 75 the consumer has an 
equal right to claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or 
services if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part. 
For section 75 to apply, the law says that there has to be a debtor-creditor-supplier chain 
to an agreement and a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the 
chain.
Santander had explained that here the debtor-creditor-supplier had been broken because 
of the use of the online marketplace by Miss B to order the laptop. While I appreciated 
Miss B felt strongly that there was a chain, Im afraid I agreed with Santander. Miss B had 
paid for the laptop via the online marketplace site and not directly to the merchant. This 
meant that the required direct link to the supplier had been broken. I agreed with 
Santander that Miss Bs claim for reimbursement via section 75 wasnt valid because it 
didnt comply with the criteria set out in the legislation.
So, for the reasons given, although I agreed that Santander had acted fairly when 
deciding Miss Bs claim didnt fulfil the criteria for a claim under section 75, I didnt think it 
had acted fairly in respect of deciding not to pursue a claim under chargeback. And, as 
set out above, I thought a chargeback claim would have been successful. I was therefore 
intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint. And in light of that, I thought it would be fair for 
Santander to refund her the sum of £263.48 being the cost of the laptop.
So, I asked Santander to re-work Miss Bs credit card account as if £263.48 had not 
been paid, refunding any interest and charges in respect of that amount. If this 
calculation resulted in a credit balance Santander needed to refund this and pay interest 
on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date of said credit balance to 
the date of settlement
Neither Miss B nor Santander has asked me to reconsider any parts of my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party disagreed with my provisional view, I still reviewed it against the 
evidence. I havent changed my mind. For the reasons set out above, I think Santander could have done more to assist Miss B with a chargeback claim. I also think such a claim 
would have been likely to have been successful as I dont think the retailer would have 
defended it.
Im therefore upholding Miss Bs claim. 
Putting things right
Im asking Santander to do the following:
To re-work Miss Bs credit card account as if £263.48 had not been paid, 
refunding any interest and charges in respect of that amount. If this 
calculation results in a credit balance Santander needs to refund this and pay 
interest on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date of said 
credit balance to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Im asking Santander 
UK Plc to do the following:
To re-work Miss Bs credit card account as if £263.48 had not been paid, 
refunding any interest and charges in respect of that amount. If this 
calculation results in a credit balance Santander needs to refund this and pay 
interest on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date of said 
credit balance to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman