DRN-4255484
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not make it clear the mechanism used to 
exchange funds received in a different currency. 
What happened
Mr L says he opened a HSBC account and a HSBC international currency account so he 
could receive United States Dollars (USD). He says he went through the marketing and 
account information prior to opening the accounts. He says the information stated the money 
would be exchanged, but it didnt state the mechanism used. He says he searched the 
application (app), and he could only find one rate, which led him to believe that was the 
exchange used, however, he was later informed that was not the exchange used. Mr L made 
a complaint to HSBC. 
HSBC did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said they use a live rate system that is updated 
every 40 seconds. They said their rate is derived from the live interbank market rate using 
the mid-rate, which is the average between the sell and buy rates, with their retail margin 
applied. HSBC said they dont advise customers what their margins are, but they are 
included within the rate. They said its possible to see higher rates advertised elsewhere, but 
they do not use these rates and they could be calculated differently. HSBC said if Mr L 
wished to know the exact amount he is going to receive, he would need to request the 
sender to instruct the payment be received in the desired currency, and the remitting bank 
would then calculate the foreign exchange rate that is to be used and he would be aware of 
the exact amount prior to receipt. Mr L brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said that the terms and conditions state 
that the funds would be converted to Pounds Sterling (GBP) using the HSBC Exchange 
Rate. He said HSBC dont detail what formula is used, and the HSBC rate includes a margin, 
which isnt publicly available at any point, so Mr L wouldnt know the specific rate hed get. 
He said the website Mr L referred to states the rates shown are for informational purposes 
only, and it goes on to say they arent available to customers as HSBCs own risk appetite, 
costs and charges arent included, so he thought it was relatively clear for Mr L to know the 
rate on HSBCs website wasnt one he was likely to get. Our investigator said the only way to 
know for sure what amount hed receive would be to ask the sending bank to issue the 
payment in the required currency. But this may not result in a higher amount.
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said he doesnt believe HSBC acted in line with The Consumer Protection from 
Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, The Business Innovation & Skills (BIS) Guidance for 
foreign exchange providers, he believed HSBC acted as a bureau de change, he doesnt 
remember seeing any warnings, they described the exchange rates as great rates and 
competitive rates, and he found a better exchange rate with a third party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ls complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome. But I can assure Mr L I have read everything he has 
said.
I must make it clear to Mr L that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how they 
should operate their international payments procedures and what mechanism they should 
use. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the 
power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Mr L has said that he suspects HSBC are not complying with their obligations under certain 
legislation. Ive taken the relevant legislation into account when deciding this complaint  
given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair 
and reasonable. If Mr L wants a decision that HSBC has breached certain legislation then 
hed need to go to Court. 
Mr L has said that he had read all of the information prior to opening his accounts. Ive 
looked on HSBC UKs website  which is the relevant website here, to see what information 
they provide. Mr L has said that HSBC didnt make it clear what exchange mechanism they 
used, so Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account which he opened, as Mr L is 
likely to have confirmed he read and agreed to these terms before he opened his Global 
Money Account (GMA).
But I am satisfied that the terms are clear what mechanism HSBC use for incoming 
payments. Page four of the terms has a section called Paying Money into your GMA and 
there is a table which shows a payment received From any HSBC UK account in another 
persons name or any account outside HSBC UK, in a foreign currency, which is the section 
which is applicable here. The table also shows Mr L when he can use the money and it says 
Right after we convert the money to GBP using the HSBC Exchange Rate at the time we 
receive it. So Im satisfied that Mr L was made aware that HSBC will use their own 
exchange rate, the HSBC Exchange Rate, at the time they received it. 
If Mr L was in any doubt about the mechanism used prior to him receiving the funds, then it 
would have been proportionate for him to contact HSBC about this for any further 
information to decide if he wanted to use them or not, but Ive not seen that Mr L has done 
this. Instead it appears he has found a website from HSBC which shows a currency 
conversion. 
But Mr L was not signposted to this website by HSBC. This website makes no mention of the 
HSBC Exchange Rate applicable to his GMA. Ive noted the website does not have the co.uk 
ending that Mr Ls GMA webpage uses, and it appears to be more of a HSBC global page as 
opposed to being UK specific. But regardless of this, Im persuaded that Mr L ought to have 
known the figures he saw on this page werent the exchange rate he would get. 
I say this because there is several indications of this on the page. One of these says Please 
note: Rates available to customers will be subject to additional costs. So Im not persuaded 
that the figures on this page were indicative of the HSBC Exchange Rate which Mr L would 
be receiving. The webpage also says This site provides HSBCs mid-market rates with a 1 
minute delay. Rates displayed are delayed by 1 minute. The rates shown will refresh every 
60 seconds. These rates are indicative and are for informational purposes only. They are not available to customers and do not reflect tradeable prices on past or future transactions.
So HSBC have said these were for information purposes only, and they are not available to 
customers. The terms to Mr Ls GMA also shows HSBC have different exchange rates as 
the aforementioned table in his terms and conditions also shows if money is received From 
any of your HSBC UK accounts to any of your currency balances, in a different currency, 
then they would convert the money using the HSBC Global Money Exchange Rate at the 
time you make the payment. 
In addition, the webpage also confirms that the mid-market rate does not include our costs. 
The HSBC exchange rate offered to you includes our risk appetite, the costs and charges we 
incur when conducting the transaction, and our commercial return on the risk we assume 
under the transaction. And there is a disclaimer which said The information contained on 
this site is not (and should not be taken as) investment advice, an offer to sell or buy 
currencies, or other instruments, nor to enter into any transactions.
So Im not persuaded that Mr L should be under the impression that this information he 
found on this webpage would be an indication of the exchange rate he would get when 
HSBC did not signpost him to this website, or tell him this is what he would get, the website 
says rates available to customers will be subject to additional costs, it is for informational 
purposes only, they are not available to customers, it didnt say that it was the HSBC 
Exchange Rate, it said it was not an offer to sell or buy currency, and the mid-market rate 
doesnt include their costs. 
Ive considered what Mr L has said about HSBC using terms such as great rates and 
competitive rates. Ive not seen any evidence that HSBC have used the term of great rates 
and HSBC said they dont use this term. But Ive seen evidence they use the term 
competitive rates. Mr L has said he found a better rate elsewhere. But Im not persuaded 
that just because Mr L has told us about one company with more favourable rates, that 
HSBC has been misleading with this term. The term used is not the best rates or a similar 
term. Mr L would need to compare all of the rates available from the potentially thousands of 
rates available to see if this is competitive or not. But Im unable to conclude from the 
information Mr L has provided that this claim is misleading. So I cant conclude HSBC have 
done anything wrong here or havent acted in line with The Consumer Protection from Unfair 
Trading Regulations 2008.
Ive also considered what Mr L has said about HSBC being a bureau de change. While I can 
understand his logic, the GMA facilitates transfers, payments, deposits of funds in different 
currencies and not bureau de change services, which is what the BIS is for. But I have 
considered the BIS Guidance for foreign exchange providers that Mr L has mentioned 
regardless. I do note from this document that it is guidance, not regulation itself as it says 
You should not treat this guidance as a substitute for the regulations themselves. I have 
also looked at the regulations relating to this.
I also note point five of the guidance states There is no requirement in the regulations to 
give exchange rate indications, but when an exchange rate indication is given, it must 
conform to the regulations. So this confirms that there is no requirement in the regulations 
(not guidance), to give exchange rate indications. And based on the information of the 
website Mr L found, I cant reasonably say he was given an indication of the HSBC 
Exchange Rate which would be applicable to his GMA based on the information on this 
webpage which Ive highlighted earlier in this decision. So it follows I dont require HSBC to 
do anything further. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman