DRN-3413486
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after falling victim to a
car purchase scam.
What happened
Mr J saw a sports hatchback advertised on a social media marketplace. He contacted the
advertiser, which was claiming to be a car dealership selling repossessed vehicles based in
the East Midlands. Mr J recalls that he spoke to the dealership on the phone and they
exchanged emails about the car and arrangements for its delivery. Mr J explains that the
person he was speaking to sounded knowledgeable and that the emails he received
included a link to a website which looked legitimate. Mr J explains that he checked the
dealership on Companies House and the details matched up.
Mr J asked if he could view the car, but the dealership said this would not be possible
because it was located in Scotland in a banks parking lot. Mr J asked if it would be possible
to see a live video of the car, but the dealership said it would take some time to arrange this
as there is not a showroom. The dealership provided Mr J with photos and a document to
show that the vehicle was free of finance. The purchase price was £6,480, which was to
include delivery to Mr Js address. Mr J has explained that he didnt think this was suspicious
as it is normal for repossessed cars to be cheaper than the market price. Mr J decided to go
ahead.
When Mr J was making the payment, he queried the account details. He was paying an
individuals account and not a business bank account. He sent a screenshot of what he
could see over to the dealerships support team who confirmed the account details as being
correct. Mr J has explained that he didnt think anything of this because he was already sure
he was dealing with a genuine company.
Unfortunately, Mr J wasnt dealing with a genuine dealership and was instead interacting
with a fraudster. Hed been tricked into sending money to the bank account details hed been
given. Mr J realised he had been the victim of a scam when all contact with him ceased. He
contacted Monzo to report what had happened and raised a fraud claim.
Monzo investigated Mr Js fraud claim but concluded it had no responsibility to refund his
loss. It tried to recover the money from the receiving bank, but no funds remained.
Unhappy with the banks position, Mr J complained. In its final response, Monzo said he did
not take enough steps to check who he was paying and was not covered by fraud protection
measures as a result. It paid Mr J £100 compensation because its customer support team
made a mistake when logging the complaint, meaning it was not responded to on time.
Mr J referred his complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into things and said
Monzo should have refunded Mr J. He explained that Monzo has agreed to adhere to the
provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM
Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised
Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. He didnt
think any of the exceptions set out in the CRM Code applied to this case. He also thought
that Monzo should have done more than it did to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr J.
Mr J agreed. But Monzo did not. The bank felt the low friction warning it displayed as part of
the payment process was enough because the payment wasnt out of the ordinary and did
not display risk factors indicative of falling victim to a scam. It pointed out that Mr J had never
met the seller and didnt inspect the car in person. It suggested the price for the car was too
good to be true and that Mr J had assumed this level of discounting was realistic without
making any further checks.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
On 18 July 2022, I issued my provisional decision to both parties. In it, I explained why I was 
minded to partially uphold the complaint and say that Monzo must refund half of the money 
Mr J lost, along with interest. 
My reasons are provided in italics below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether
Monzo should reimburse some or all of the money Mr J lost in line with the provisions of
the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done more to protect
Mr J from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr J has been the victim of a scam. He was tricked into making
the payment and didnt receive anything in return for his money. But this isnt enough, in and
of itself, for Mr J to receive a refund of all of the money hes lost from the bank.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, both the bank and its customer have obligations. If it
can be shown that the customer has met their requisite level of care, then they will receive
full reimbursement. If the customer has not done this, then it is for the firm to show that it has
met its obligations under the Code, one of which is the provision of an Effective Warning
when the firm identifies an APP scam risk in a payment journey. If a firm has not met its
obligations then it, subject to any liability by the bank which received the money, will be liable
for 50% of the customers loss.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr J had a
reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods, but neither do I think
Monzo provided an Effective Warning to him when it should have done. So Im currentlyminded to think the fair outcome is for Monzo to refund 50% of Mr Js losses.
Did Mr J meet his Requisite Level of Care under the CRM Code?
I have first considered whether Mr J failed to take the requisite level of care required for
Monzo to choose not to reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code which it has
agreed to adhere to.
The exceptions set out in the CRM Code that are relevant to this case are:
The customer ignored an Effective Warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
was legitimate.
Did Mr J ignore an Effective Warning?
Monzo says it did not need to provide an Effective Warning in relation to the payment Mr J
was making. At the time Mr J made the payment, Monzo displayed what it describes as a
low friction warning which provides generic information which can apply to more than one
type of scam risk.
As Monzo readily accepts that it did not provide an Effective Warning aimed at trying to
reduce the prospect of a vehicle purchase scam from succeeding, it follows that Mr J cannot
be fairly said to have ignored it. I dont think the generic information Mr J was presented with
should have resonated with him to such an extent that it should have had a material effect in
preventing the vehicle purchase scam that took place. The information Mr J was presented
with was not designed to affect his decision making so that the prospect of this vehicle
purchase scam succeeding was reduced.
Did Mr J have a reasonable basis for believing the payment he made was legitimate?
Ive also thought about the steps Mr J took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the
transaction and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payment. Having
done so, I am not currently persuaded Mr J had a reasonable basis for believing that the
payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or
services and the person or business he transacted with was legitimate.
This is not a finding I have made lightly. I am mindful that this was a sophisticated scam.
From what Mr J has told us, the fraudster created websites and faked operations to appear
legitimate. Mr J spoke with the fraudster on the phone, which would have gone a long way
towards building his trust and lowering his defences.
But the car Mr J wanted to purchase was advertised for sale at £6,480 including delivery to
his address on the other side of the country. Having reviewed recognised industry trade
guides that provide average car sale prices based on make, model, vehicle age and
mileage, this price is considerably less than what comparable were being sold for at the time
of the scam. The information I have seen suggests the typical market value for this car with
this specification and in this condition was between £20,000 and £22,000. The HPI
document that was provided to Mr J by the fraudsters gives a similar indicative valuation.
Mr J was aware that the car was priced below its market value. I do accept that a car that
has been repossessed might not achieve a price towards the top end of the estimatedranges. But I think Mr J should have been much more sceptical about why a dealership
would be willing to sell this car for so much under its market value.
If a car has been repossessed, it is in the finance companys interests to recoup as much as
they can. Theres no good reason for a finance company to let a car go for less than a
quarter of its market value, which it would have to have done for the dealership to be able to
buy it and sell it on at a profit at this price point. Mr J was not buying a car that had been
previously written off or that had known mechanical problems. Ive not seen anything to
suggest that Mr J thought critically about the level of discount that was being offered and
I think he ought to have done.
I think Mr J was aware of the importance of making sure that a seller genuinely has an item
they are offering for sale as he was initially prepared to travel to the East Midlands to view
the vehicle, which was not an inconsiderable distance from his home. The fraudster then told
him the car was located in Scotland in a banking parking lot. I can understand why Mr J then
asked to see video footage of the car instead as that would have been a much bigger
journey for him to undertake. But the fraudsters came up with an excuse as to why this
would not be possible to do.
In addition to this, Mr J was aware that he was paying an individual. I think he ought to have
been more concerned about this than he ultimately was, especially against the backdrop that
he could not view the car in person and no video footage was available. Mr J contacted the
fraudsters in order to confirm the account details hed been given were correct. But he did
not question how or why the individual he was going to pay was connected to the dealership.
Mr J explains that he had checked the dealership on Companies House so he was confident
he was dealing with a legitimate company, but the person he was sending money to was not
named as a director or a person with significant control.
I accept that Mr J did undertake some checks, but he ultimately placed a lot of trust in
strangers. I consider that Mr J ought to have had greater concerns about the deal and that,
in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of scrutiny on his part. Buying a car sight
unseen at a considerable discount was always a big risk. I think Mr J should have had done
more than he did to question the arrangement before paying any money. The information
Mr J saw online, including the websites and the support chat had been fabricated by the
fraudsters. By not carrying out sufficient checks to independently verify the situation when
the purported sale price was so far under the true value, Mr J did not have a reasonable
basis for believing this was a legitimate sale and so fell below the level of care expected of
him under the CRM Code.
Did Monzo meet the standards expected of a firm under the CRM Code?
Even though I dont think Mr J had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment,
he may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money he lost if Monzo didnt meet the
standards it has agreed to adhere to under the CRM Code.
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide Effective
Warnings to their customers. It sets out that an Effective Warning should enable a customer
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an Effective Warning should be understandable,
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Monzo says its low friction warning went far enough in the individual circumstances of this
complaint. To support this, Monzo explained there were no indicators to suggest that this
payment was any more likely to be a purchase scam more than a genuine purchase. It
points out that Mr J had the cleared funds in his account to make the purchase and that thepayment went to an account with a confirmation of payee match. It pointed out that the
payment was made from Mr Js usual device and that it had been verified with his payment
credentials. It felt that the actions it took were proportionate to the circumstances and
suggested it would be disruptive to legitimate payment journeys to be expected to intervene
in payments of this type.
As Monzo has identified, there are lots of factors to consider when thinking about when it
should have identified a scam risk in particular payment journey. The Code says that firms
should consider the payment against normal transactional data and customer behaviour. But
Mr J was making a payment of over £6,000 to a new payee, which was not an insignificant
amount of money. I think the payment Mr J was making had sufficient risk factors so that
Monzo was required to deliver an Effective Warning. Ive not seen anything that suggests it
would have been particularly onerous, costly or disruptive for Monzo to have provided an
Effective Warning.
Mr J is not an expert in scams and doesnt have the same level of knowledge or experience
of this type of vehicle purchase scam as the bank does. If Monzo had given an Effective
Warning as I think it ought to have done, including giving advice on how Mr J could have
protected himself from this type of scam, and prominently explaining the potential
consequences of making an irrevocable payment, then I think this wouldve been important
contextual information that would have had a material impact and affected his decision to go
ahead and send the money. Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me it is more likely
than not that Mr J would have continued with the purchase regardless.
In addition to this, Mr J was making a payment that was out of character and unusual for
him, so I think Monzo should have intervened to question the payment he was making and
that action would have, on balance, prevented the scam. The effect of this finding is limited
as it does not change the position that a fair outcome would be for both parties to share
responsibility for the loss as I am mindful that Mr J did not take enough care with the
purchase, but it does mean that Monzo should pay interest on the partial refund from the
date of loss rather than the date it declined the claim under the CRM Code.
Recovery of funds
Monzo did try to recover the money Mr J had sent. Ultimately this was not successful. But
that outcome is not surprising given that fraudsters tend to move the funds on very quickly.
As the fraudster was in touch with Mr J at the time he was making the payment, it seems
more likely than not that they were able to utilise the funds as soon as they were sent.
Overall
I know this is going to be disappointing news for Mr J, especially as our Investigator had
previously recommended that Monzo ought to be responsible for refunding all of the money
lost. But having carefully considered everything, I have reached the conclusion that Mr J did
not meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code and that Monzo did not meet its
standards as a firm as it failed to provide Mr J with an Effective Warning. I am currently
persuaded that failure is likely to have had a material effect on preventing the scam. I also
think Monzo should have done more to protect Mr J. As a result, I think a 50% split of liability
for this loss is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr J thought the decision was unfair, especially as it had taken almost a year to reach this 
point. Monzo didnt agree with the provisional decision either. It said the code does not require it to 
do more than make best efforts when it comes to detection and prevention of scams and it 
was confident that it had made the best efforts here.
It felt it had robust processes in place to identify potential scam cases and that it didnt make 
any mistakes in what it did in this situation. It didnt think it was appropriate to say the bank 
should bear any responsibility for Mr Js loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of all that was on file before my provisional decision as well as the 
arguments put forwards since. Having done so, I am sorry to have to disappoint both parties 
but I consider that the outcome I reached in my provisional decision is still fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances here, and for the reasons I have already outlined. For 
completeness, I will explain why the points raised in response do not change my position.  
Mr J lost a lot of money to a fraudster, so its understandable why hes disappointed with the 
position Ive taken. This was clearly a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards Mr Js 
situation. But I need to consider not just whether Mr J believed what he was being told, but 
whether it was reasonable for him to do so. For the reasons Ive already explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think Mr J had a reasonable basis for believing the money he 
was paying was for genuine goods or that the person he was paying was legitimate, so he 
did not meet the level of care required of him under the CRM Code. 
Monzos position is that it had done enough to meet the obligations it has agreed to follow 
under the CRM Code. It says the Code requires it to do no more than make best efforts 
when it comes to detection and prevention of scams. But at SF1(2), the Code says that 
where a firm identifies an APP scam risk, it should provide Effective Warnings to customers. 
The phrase best efforts is not included in the CRM Code. 
Mr J was making a payment of over £6,000 to a new payee. This wasnt something he 
typically did and I still think Monzo should have identified an APP scam risk in this payment 
journey and that it should have provided Mr J with an Effective Warning at that time, in line 
with the CRM Code. In this case, Monzo failed to provide Mr J with an Effective Warning 
when it should have done and that failure is likely to have had a material effect on preventing 
the scam.
As a result, I still think the outcome I proposed in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
To resolve this dispute, Monzo Bank Ltd should now:
Pay Mr J a refund of 50% of the £6,480 he paid to the fraudster, less any funds it has 
been able to recover and any redress that it has already paid
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Mr J made the payment until the 
date of settlement
If Monzo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so Mr J can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Js complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman