DRN-2934645
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited was registered to him before he acquired it. Hes also unhappy that he hasnt 
received extras he purchased with the agreement.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS.
Mr C is unhappy because he believes the car was registered to him in February 2018 before 
he acquired it. He feels that hes missed out on two months worth of benefits and that the 
car is worth less because it was registered two months earlier. Mr C is also unhappy 
because he didnt receive extras he purchased as part of the agreement including a 36-
month warranty, a 36-month European support package and 12 months road fund licence.
Mr C complained to MBFS. He said the supplying dealer registered the car without his 
approval.
In response, MBFS said that the finance documents stated the registration date of the car as 
February 2018 and that Mr C was aware of this date at the point of supply.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the finance agreement stated the date 
when the car was first registered, and he didnt think it was unreasonable to expect Mr C to 
have read the agreement before signing it.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he hadnt received what hed been promised or what he paid for. 
He said the car was registered to him in February 2018 without his authority and without him 
having paid a deposit or entered into the agreement. He said when the car broke down in 
Italy, he was left stranded because the vehicle wasnt on the Mercedes system. He said hed 
provided the supplying dealer with an invoice for a battery, but it had refused to reimburse 
him because it wasnt a Mercedes battery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This clearly states that the car was first registered in 
February 2018 and that it had 150 miles on the odometer at the point of supply. I would 
expect a consumer to read an agreement before signing it. So I think Mr C was aware  or 
ought to have been aware  of the date of the cars first registration. It was then up to Mr C 
as to whether he was happy to proceed with the agreement or not. I can see that Mr C 
signed the agreement and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions.
Mr C has said that the car was registered to him before he entered into the finance 
agreement. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this was the case.  What I can say is 
that it wouldve been the supplying dealer who was responsible for registering the car on the 
DVLA database, because a brand-new car isnt allowed to leave a dealership without being 
registered. Once registered, the DVLA will send a V5 certificate to the registered owner. If Mr 
C is correct about the supplying dealer registering the car in his name in February, around 2 
months before he entered into the finance agreement, then he would have received a V5 
document in the post, which wouldve alerted him to the registration of the car in his name. 
Mr C hasnt said that this happened. I think its more likely that the supplying dealer 
registered the car to itself before it entered negotiations with Mr C.
Ive also considered the other aspect to Mr Cs complaint which is about extras he says he 
purchased with the car which he hasnt received. Ive thought about whether there has been 
a misrepresentation here.
In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the 
supplying dealer made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr C to enter into the 
contract. In order to find a breach of contract, I would need to see evidence that the 
supplying dealer didnt do something it was meant to do under the terms of the contract.
There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr C and the dealer. Because I wasnt 
present, I cant be certain of what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the 
contemporaneous documents and decided whats most likely to have happened. Ive looked 
at the vehicle order form provided by Mr C, but I cant see that it makes any reference to 
road tax or a warranty or European cover. Ive reviewed the available emails between the 
dealer and Mr C, but I cant see any reference to these extras. Ive also looked at the finance 
agreement but similarly, it doesnt mention any of these items. I have seen, in 
correspondence from MBFS, a reference to Mr Cs complaint that he hasnt received a 
warranty. MBFS has explained to Mr C that he needs to take this up with the manufacturer 
via the dealership, as the warranty isnt something the MBFS are responsible for. In 
conclusion, and on the basis of the information available to me, Im unable to say that theres 
been a breach of contract.
Taking everything into account, and whilst I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling about this, 
Im unbale, on the basis of the evidence provided, to say that MBFS has done anything 
wrong here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman