DRN-2769784
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1997. Mrs K says HSBC UK Bank Plc  trading as first direct (first direct) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
What happened
Mrs K took out a PPI policy in 1997 as a standalone product but it was taken out at the same 
time she obtained a mortgage with first direct. The policy would have covered Mrs Ks 
mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if she was to unwell to work or became 
unemployed. She paid monthly for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs K says the policy was sold to her during a telephone call and shes said she was told 
she had to have the PPI to get the borrowing. But I think first direct made her aware that the 
policy was optional and that she agreed to take it out  even if she doesnt recall this 
now.
First direct hasnt got a recording of the sale conversation. This isnt surprising given that 
the call took place 23 years ago. As there isnt a recording, I dont know what was said, 
so in situations like this I need to consider what I think is most likely to have happened.
Based on what we know about how first direct sold similar policies at the same time as 
Mrs Ks policy was sold, it seems likely that the script the adviser would have been 
following during the call would have prompted them to explain the policy was optional. 
And it would have asked Mrs K if she wanted the cover before it was arranged. The 
application documents would have then been sent to Mrs K for her to complete in her own 
time and return to first direct. 
The PPI was a standalone policy and not linked to Mrs Ks mortgage. First direct have sent 
a sample copy of the application form Mrs K is likely to have completed at the time. On there 
it has a section about what to do if the applicants mortgage isnt with first direct. So, I think 
Mrs K would have known the PPI wasnt compulsory. 
First direct didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information First direct gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think Mrs K has lost out by anything first direct might have done wrong.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs K has said - including what she has said about 
the PPI not paying out when she was made redundant. But Ive only looked at the mis-sale 
element of her complaint. If Mrs K wants to raise a complaint about the claim against the 
policy, she will need to do so separately. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman