DRN-2447203
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited because it declined his claim.   
What happened
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. So, Ill now 
summarise the key arguments.
Mr D had a group income protection policy with his employer. He brought his complaint as a 
beneficiary under that policy. Mr D was off work from May 2019 with IBS and has suffered 
with other medical conditions since such as, depression, anxiety, osteoporosis in his right 
knee and diverticulitis. Mr D is no longer employed by Avivas policy holder, owing to his 
poor health, he accepted a settlement which ended his employment. 
In my provisional findings, I found that there was enough persuasive evidence to support 
Mr Ds claim that he was too unwell to work and so I upheld his complaint. I invited both 
sides to put forward any new evidence or arguments. 
Mr D accepted my findings, however, Aviva did not. In summary, Aviva said;
Mr D was having problems with his employer as early as February 2019. It 
highlighted occupational health report from that time documented the problems he 
was having with his working environment. It suggested that this evidence was 
persuasive enough for it to consider the issues surrounding his absence in May 
2019 were solely related to stress at work;
Mr D had refused to take medication for the illnesses he was suffering and;
It had concerns about paying the recommended settlement directly to Mr D as his 
employer is its policy holder and so it would usually pay any settlement to them. 
Aviva also raised concerns that if it were to pay the settlement directly to Mr D then 
he would be disadvantaged as hed effectively have no contributions made to his 
work-placed pension scheme and it could also have potential tax implications for 
Mr D. 
So, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Avivas response to my provisional findings, I partially agree 
with its comments about how to pay the settlement, but I disagree with what its said about 
Mr Ds ability to work from May 2019 up until his last day of employment on 30 November 
2020. Ill explain why. 
I understand Avivas arguments about Mr Ds ability to work. I can see how its made the 
connection it has when relying on the contemporaneous evidence available here and there 
are conflicting accounts about Mr Ds ability to work. But overall, Im more persuaded by the 
evidence of those who physically examined him, rather than doing so remotely. I also note 
that Mr D has since explained that whilst discussing his health problems with occupational 
health and Aviva, the work-place issues were explored as he was under the impression that 
was the purpose of those calls. He also drew attention to the health problems he shared 
during those conversations and that they appeared not to have been considered. 
I noted this in my provisional findings as I felt Aviva had effectively ignored the health-related 
problems Mr D shared with it. Since then, Aviva disputed this and clarified that it felt the 
work-related stresses were more of a barrier to Mr D returning to work. I wanted to 
acknowledge that, but it still doesnt change my view for the reasons Ive already explained.
Aviva highlighted a medical report from February 2019. Within this report, theres evidence 
to suggest that Mr D was experiencing problems at work borne from reported issues with his 
working environment. Aviva has essentially made the connection thats the main reason Mr 
D hasnt returned to work. I think its important to recognise that this report falls outside the 
window of absence Ive investigated as its a few months prior to Mr Ds IBS illness which 
ultimately led to him being too unwell to work. That said, I recognise there were reported 
issues which were unresolved between Mr D and his employer. But Im not persuaded that 
they were of a magnitude that precluded him from work. I say that because Mr D had 
previously continued to work despite these problems. 
The problems Mr D had with his working environment were on-going over a significant 
period and theres evidence that they predated the medical report in February 2019. Mr D 
continued to work throughout that period and so Im less persuaded that the underlying 
work-related issues were the reason he was unable to work from May 2019. 
Aviva has raised concerns about paying the suggested settlement directly to Mr D instead of 
its policy holder. Ive carefully considered its arguments here and upon reflection, Im 
persuaded by what its said. Aviva should therefore pay the settlement to the policy holder, 
Mr Ds employer, so it can make the necessary deductions for tax purposes. Mr D also has a 
work-place pension scheme and so contributions will need to be made prior to paying the 
remaining settlement to Mr D. Initially, I considered the relationship between Mr D and his 
employer to be in a position where that might not have been possible. But I take on board 
Avivas concerns here and Im persuaded by its position. 
I also accept Avivas point about Mr D not taking medication for his condition. Its an 
important point. But I should say that he found the medication he was initially prescribed 
unhelpful as it didnt help manage his symptoms or his pain levels. And so, Mr D was 
referred to a specialist for further examination and this culminated in a diagnosis of 
diverticulitis. Consequently, I think this shows that Mr D was suffering with an illness that 
wasnt necessarily fully understood and so I dont think itd be fair to suggest that he was 
being uncooperative by not taking medication that seemingly wasnt helping him. 
I also recognise Avivas comments about Mr D perhaps being able to work part time and so 
it could have potentially paid a proportionate settlement. But, unfortunately, Mr Ds claims 
were not accepted. And so, there was no assessment made on his functional capacity and 
his ability to work on a part time basis. Therefore, it would not be fair for Aviva to make a 
retrospective assessment, nor a proportionate settlement on that basis.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr Ds claim in full and the deferral period should start from the date of his initial absence (May 2019). Aviva should 
also add 8% simple interest on the settlement amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman