DRN-4117116
Complaint
Mr F has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr F with a first loan for £4,100.00 in September 2017. 
This loan had an APR of 81.1% and a term of 30 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £8,244.00, including interest, fees and charges of £4,144.00, was due to be 
repaid in 30 monthly instalments of just under £275. This loan was settled early, in 
November 2020, with some of the proceeds from loan 2.  
Everyday Loans then provided Mr F with a second loan for £6,000.00 in November 2018. 
£3,774.20 went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan had an APR of 
69.4% and a term of 30 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£11,157.90, including interest, fees and charges of £5,157.90, was due to be repaid in 30 
monthly instalments of just over £370.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Fs complaint and she thought Everyday Loans didnt 
do anything wrong when providing loan 1. But she also that Everyday Loans ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr F with loan 2. So she thought that Mr Fs 
complaint should be partially upheld. 
Mr F didnt disagree with our adjudicators assessment. But Everyday Loans disagreed with 
the outcome on loan 2. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. As 
the parties appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loan 1, this decision on 
only looking at whether Everyday Loans should have provided Mr F with loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Fs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr F could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before loan 2 was provided. The results of which showed that Mr F was significantly more 
indebted than he was at the time he was provided with loan 1. Im also concerned some of 
Mr Fs indebtedness was made up of payday and other high-cost lending. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr F has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Fs financial position wasnt as a 
result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Mr Fs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Fs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 2, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Mr F. As Everyday 
Loans provided Mr F with loan 2, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr F ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan 
he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr F lost out because of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr F by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr F aid on loan 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr F to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded about loan 2 from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman