DRN-4223655
Complaint
Mr H has complained about loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly lent him these loans.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr Hs representative 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr H with loans for £1,000.00 and £800 in April 2021 and December 2021. 
The loans were due be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £228.56 and £164.44 
respectively. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr Hs applications after he provided details of his monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit searches it 
carried out on Mr H. The information Mr H provided about his income and expenditure 
showed hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. L2G says, 
in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr H has said Mr H 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that these were Mr Hs first loans with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr H 
was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what 
it was told. 
That said given the circumstances here, particularly the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the total charge for credit, I do think that L2G ought to have done more to find out about 
Mr Hs actual expenditure. However, I dont think that L2G finding out more about Mr Hs 
actual expenditure would have prevented it from lending to Mr H on either occasion.
I say this because the information Mr H has now provided now suggests the loan payments 
were affordable. His bank statements show me that he had enough funds to make the 
monthly loan payments once his committed non-discretionary expenditure was deducted 
from his income. So, in my view, even if L2G had gone into the depth of checks Mr H 
appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  I dont think that 
doing so would have resulted in it making different lending decisions. 
Ive also kept in mind that Lendable provided a second loan to Mr H and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But loan 2 was for less than the 
amount of loan 1 and it consolidated some of what Mr H already owed into lower monthly 
payments at a much lower interest rate too. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt unfair for L2G to have provided loan 2 to Mr H in the 
circumstances that it did here. 
I accept that its possible Mr Hs actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information 
provided or in his pattern of lending. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, given 
everything Ive seen suggests that the payments in question were affordable, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for L2G to provide these loans.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman