DRN-2021868
The complaint
Mr A complains that Quilter Wealth Ltd has mis-sold him an Income Protection policy.
What happened
Mr A completed an enquiry for Quilter Wealth to see if it could find him a suitable Income 
Protection policy. Following his enquiry he received a call back and an advisor went through 
the types of cover available to him, based on the information hed provided it as part of the 
enquiry. 
Mr A initially was looking for a policy that paid out £1,000 a month, but during the call he 
then reduced this to £800 a month. It recommended him a policy that paid out 70% of his 
income, with a benefit of up to £800. This policy was selected as it was the only one with the 
benefit and the short-deferred period Mr A said he needed.
Unfortunately Mr A became too unwell to work in late 2019, so put in a claim on the policy. 
His claim was accepted, but the benefit he received was much less than £800. He 
complained to the insurer and to Quilter Wealth about this  with this case only looking into 
the policy sale. Mr A said the policy mustve been mis-sold, as it now wasnt paying out what 
hed asked for. He recalled asking for a policy that paid a guaranteed sum of £800. Quilter 
Wealth disagreed and said the policy was correctly sold, but that unfortunately Mr As 
accounting was quite complex, which is what caused him to be paid less than he expected.
Mr A brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that he did think Quilter Wealth had made an error in the sales call, as it had told Mr A 
the policy benefit was based on the previous 12 months earnings when this was in fact three 
years earnings, as he was self-employed, not employed. But the investigator said he didnt 
consider this wouldve made a difference to Mr As decision to take out the cover.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I corresponded with Mr A and 
Quilter Wealth once the case had been passed to me. This was to understand Mr As 
accounts in more detail and Quilter Wealths position on the sale. As part of this I explained 
to Mr A that I was struggling to equate the earnings hed declared with the account 
information we held. And in the same respect I was uncertain of how hed reached the 
benefit figure  considering his earnings at that time. Mr A asked for me to formalise our 
conversation, and my investigation, with a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A argues that Quilter Wealth mis-sold him the policy as he required a policy that paid out 
£800, but this isnt what he was sold. Hes told us he didnt want to be paid out anymore or 
any less than this amount and that hed asked to be insured for this fixed amount. He said he 
wouldnt have expected to be insured for less unless he was expressly told otherwise. But 
on listening to the sales call I think he was told otherwise.
For the majority of the initial sales call Mr A is enquiring about £1,000 benefit, rather than 
£800. The advisor explains to him that the insurer can cover 70% of what his income is. So 
in order for him to be eligible for £1,000 he needs to earn £17,142. The advisor also explains 
that if Mr As income was to drop below this he should call up and the monthly benefit should 
be reduced, so his premium reduces and hes not over insured. The advisor then explains 
again that the insurance will only cover 70% of Mr As earnings. So I think this makes it clear 
that the policy isnt paying out a guaranteed sum each month, but instead a percentage of 
the amount Mr A earns.
I also say this because the advisor works through an example with Mr A in the sales call. 
Mr A asks what would happen if he hadnt earnt £1,000 (a month, over the year) but instead 
his average earnings were a little less. He asks if the policy would just pay a little less or not 
at all. The advisor explains that the claim wouldnt be declined, but would pay out what 
Mr As average had been  so hed maybe receive £900 in benefit, but wouldve still paid the 
premium for £1,000. Its at this point Mr A decides to take out a benefit of £800 instead. 
Considering the advisor went through this example, I cant agree Quilter Wealth didnt make 
it clear to Mr A that the benefit could be less than the full amount. Or that hed be paying a 
premium for the full benefit under the policy, even if he didnt qualify for the full benefit when 
he claimed. 
As this was an advised sale, Quilter Wealth is responsible for recommending a suitable 
policy for Mr A that meets his needs and the requirements he set out. This means it needs to 
ask Mr A the right questions and base its advice around his answers. But this therefore does 
also rely on accurate information being provided by Mr A.
From listening to the sales call and looking at the application paperwork provided, Mr A says 
hes self-employed and earnt  on average - £24,000 in the last year. Following this part of 
the call the advisor does makes a mistake and tells Mr A that the amount hed be paid out 
would be based on the last 12 months earnings, when actually its based on the last three 
years. So Ive considered the information that was discussed in the call and whether this 
error by the adviser meant Mr A was mis-sold the policy.
As Ive set out, Mr A gives his earnings as £24,000. Mr A has provided us with his accounts 
from 2014 when he started trading, so Ive been able to look at his income for 2016 to 2017, 
the year before he took out this cover. But in reviewing this, the only figure close to £24,000 
is Mr As turnover  so Ive considered whether the adviser was unclear with his questions 
around earnings. The call goes as follows:
Adviser: Would you say thats [in relation to £24,000] an accurate figure? 
Mr A: Yeah um.. obviously it depends on workbut yeah itd be on average Id say
Adviser: Is that what you report for tax purposes, so thats after all of your business 
expenses have been deducted?
Mr A: Yes thats right
Listening to the call Im satisfied the adviser was clear about the figure he needed. This is 
especially because he checks the £24,000 is after deductions  which a turnover figure is 
not. I asked Mr A why he provided this figure, as I couldnt align it with his accounts  based 
on what Ive seen, the figure reported for tax was only £7,000 at that time. But he wasnt 
been able to recall why he gave this figure, due to the time passed and having limited 
recollections of the call.
Considering the adviser makes it clear the policy benefit is based on Mr As earnings and 
does ask clear questions around this, I cant say this policy was mis-sold. While the adviser 
did incorrectly ask for only one years income instead of three years, the figure Mr A gave in response to this was incorrect. So I cant safely say that if the adviser had asked for the two 
previous years income, that these wouldve been correctly provided either. The adviser 
based his advice on the income figure Mr A gave  and as this was quite different to Mr As 
accounts, this has then led to issues when hes gone to claim.
I appreciate Mr A says that if hed known he wouldnt have received £800 a month (if he 
needed to claim), then he wouldve looked elsewhere for a policy that did pay out what he 
needed. Or hed have asked to be re-quoted for a lower amount with lower premiums. But 
from listening to the call, I consider it was made clear how the policy worked. And I think its 
more likely that he did understand the £800 benefit wasnt guaranteed at the time. And with 
this knowledge, he chose to go ahead with this cover. While I have considered his testimony 
now, Im not persuaded this is what he understood of the policy during the sale.
Ultimately, from reviewing the sales process and the calls that took place, I cant agree Mr A 
was mis-sold this policy by Quilter Wealth. I think that it was correct to recommend this 
policy based on the information it was provided by Mr A about his employment and earnings. 
And it was made clear to him that the benefit wasnt fixed at £800, but instead was linked to 
his average earnings.
I also note that Mr A has brought a separate complaint about how the insurer has calculated 
his benefit and categorised his employment. And in this (and as part of his response to the 
investigator and me on this complaint) hes argued that he does earn enough to receive a 
benefit of £800. So, if this argument was to be correct, then arguably this policy wouldve 
been correctly sold, as it should provide the benefit Mr A asked for. I havent looked into his 
complaint to the insurer and cant comment on whether the benefit was correctly paid or not. 
But if Mr A does believe he qualifies for the full benefit, then it also seems, by this logic, he 
wasnt mis-sold the policy.
I understand from Mr As complaint points on the insurer complaint that he considers hes 
not being paid the correct sum due to varying terms for income and a technicality around 
how they define employment. So Ive considered whether Quilter Wealth shouldve done 
more to check these terms before advising Mr A to take this cover. But considering the 
situation hes described and the level of information its taken to determine the benefit due, I 
dont think this does fall within Quilter Wealths general remit or what Id reasonably have 
expected it to do when recommending this policy. So this hasnt changed my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman