DRN-2737576
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt do enough to 
assist him in recovering money hed paid to a third party in relation to freelance services.
What happened
Mr T sourced a freelancer (V) through an introducer service (U) to carry out some IT work 
for him. Mr T says that in addition to introducing him to V, Us service included time tracking 
to log Vs work, receiving payment from Mr T and holding it until he approved what V had 
produced. Mr T made a number of payments to U, including two payments using his 
Barclaycard credit card totalling £2,112.50.
Mr T says the work he commissioned wasnt delivered, but despite this U released his 
payments to V. He was dissatisfied with the response he received when he complained to U, 
and subsequently asked Barclaycard to assist. Barclaycard raised a chargeback for one of 
the payments, which Us bank defended. Mr T queried the position and Barclaycard made 
further representations, this time on both payments. Mr T said that U hadnt provided time 
tracking information and that he must therefore have been misled.
Barclaycard told Mr T Us bank had defended the claims on the basis that V had been paid 
for the hours worked, and that it couldnt pursue the chargeback further. Mr T complained to 
Barclaycard, reminding it that Us service hadnt been met because it hadnt delivered the 
time tracking information as hed expected. He says that in response Barclaycard gave him 
incorrect information about the claim outcome, saying that one of the claims had been 
successful while acknowledging its service had been poor and paying Mr T £225 for his 
inconvenience. As I understand it, only one of the claims was defended by U.
Mr T remains unhappy with Barclaycards handling of matters, and wants it to compensate 
him for the amounts he paid on the card. He referred his complaint to us, saying that other 
card providers had reimbursed payments hed made for the same service. He maintains U 
either failed to deliver the agreed service or misled him as to the service it would provide, 
giving rise to a potential claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA1974). Mr T thinks that if Barclaycard had handled his claim differently, hed have 
recovered all his payments.
Our investigator felt that in representing the chargebacks, Barclaycard had taken reasonable 
steps to pursue Mr Ts claim, despite ultimately being unsuccessful. He noted Barclaycard 
had received counter-arguments from Us bank that suggested pursuing matters further 
wouldnt result in a successful outcome, so Barclaycard declined to take the claim to 
arbitration by the card scheme.
The investigator also thought Mr Ts claim under section 75 unlikely to be successful. Mr Ts 
initial cause for dissatisfaction was with V, and there wasnt a sufficiently direct connection 
between the parties and Barclaycard for a claim to be brought under section 75.
There was such a connection for a claim in relation to Us actions. But the investigator 
considered the available evidence wasnt suggestive that U had misled Mr T or that it had 
failed in its contractual undertakings towards him. So he didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld, or that Barclaycard needed to take any further steps to resolve it.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Hes asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Barclaycard to take any further action in relation to 
Mr Ts complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr T, but I hope my explanation 
will be helpful to him in understanding the reasons for this conclusion.
Firstly, I need to draw a distinction between the work being carried out for Mr T by V and the 
service being provided to him by U. Mr T had a contract with U for its services. A separate 
contract for the freelance work existed between Mr T and V. The latter wasnt funded by 
Mr T's card payments, as would be necessary for a successful chargeback or section 75 
claim. Mr Ts card payments were made to U, who subsequently made payments itself to V.
As the investigator noted, in its terms of service U disclaims responsibility for the 
performance of freelancers, who are engaged by the user. That seems to me consistent with 
the principle of engaging someone on a freelance basis. So if Mr T has an issue with the 
work V carried out or the amount it billed for its services, he needs to take this up with V, 
rather than U (or his bank).
the chargeback claim
Mr Ts chargeback claim is based on what he thinks is either a failure by U to provide the 
service he paid for, or that the service he did receive wasnt what U described when he 
signed up to it. Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card 
scheme's rules, not the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for 
Barclaycard (or me) to decide whether either U or Mr T was right.
Rather, Barclaycards role was to raise the appropriate chargeback based on the reasons Mr 
T gave, and consider whether any filed defence complies with the relevant chargeback rules. 
Where it does, Id expect the card provider to consider the likelihood of success in the event 
of moving to the arbitration stage.
From what I can see, thats what Barclaycard did. The chargeback claim was raised on the 
basis U hadnt provided Mr T with agreed services. U responded on one of the claims with a 
valid defence under the card scheme rules. Barclaycard has said that this response didnt 
suggest the matter was appropriate to be put for arbitration through the card scheme.
I dont think that was an unreasonable stance for Barclaycard to take, based on what I can 
see it received. I appreciate Mr T thinks the outcome might have been different if 
Barclaycard had submitted both claims simultaneously. He might be right about that, though 
of course that includes the possibility U might instead have sought to defend both claims.
Of course, there were some shortcomings in the way Barclaycard dealt with Mr Ts 
chargeback claims. Barclaycard has acknowledged this, and paid him £225 to compensate 
for that. But overall, I dont think I can properly say that the way Barclaycard handled the 
chargeback claims makes it liable to pay him any more than that, or to reimburse the 
amounts he paid.the section 75 claim
One effect of section 75 of the CCA1974 is that, where an individual buys goods from a 
supplier using credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the lender and the 
supplier, that individual can in certain specific circumstances bring a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way he could against the 
supplier. In the context of Mr Ts claim, the supplier was U and Barclaycard was the lender.
I think Barclaycard ought to have considered this potential liability further, rather than focus 
on whether such an arrangement existed between Mr T, V and Barclaycard. But I have to 
question whether, if it had done so, this would have led to any significant difference in the 
outcome of his claim.
There are some other potential difficulties in Mr T being able to bring a section 75 claim, or a 
connected complaint to us. The nature of his arrangements with both U and V are not 
suggestive he was wholly or mainly outside of his business, trade, craft or profession, as 
would be required for him to meet the definition of a consumer under our rules. He would 
have to meet the definition of a micro-enterprise or small/medium-sized enterprise, taking 
into account the size of any linked enterprises in which he holds a significant interest.
If Mr T was acting in the course of his business, its questionable whether he was doing so 
as a sole trader or on behalf of one of his limited companies. If it was the latter, then he 
wouldnt have the right to claim under section 75, as the CCA1974 excludes limited 
companies from the protections section 75 affords. But even if Mr T can demonstrate the 
former, I dont think such a claim would be likely to be successful. Ill explain why.
Mr T believes he has a claim either for breach of contract or misrepresentation against U. 
But based on the terms of service that U supplied in response to the chargeback claim, I can 
see a similar outcome if Barclaycard sought to defend its own position under the connected 
lender liability of section 75.
Similarly, while Mr T says he was misled about the service U undertook to provide to him, I 
dont consider the available evidence supports that position. The terms of service Ive seen 
indicate that the hours billed would be deemed approved unless Mr T disputed them within 
five days of the weekly invoice.
Ive seen nothing to support Mr T being told payment would only be released when he 
approved it. Mr T acknowledges he has used Us services on several occasions, so he 
would have been familiar with the way in which billing arrangements worked. And the time 
tracking arrangements appear to have been in operation (other than when V switched them 
off as agreed in contract negotiations with Mr T), which is what appears to have led at least 
in part to billing reversals in late May and early June 2019.
As Im satisfied Mr T hasnt suffered any material detriment from the way Barclaycard 
interpreted his section 75 claim, I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decisionOverall then, while I understand Mr Ts frustration at what he considers to be overcharging 
on Vs part, I dont think this is something that can be properly rectified in the course of a 
section 75 claim against Barclaycard that extends only to the actions of U. My final decision, 
therefore, is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman