DRN-3700877
The complaint
Miss I complains that a car supplied under a agreement with Leasys UK Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2019 Miss I was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract hire 
agreement with Leasys.
Miss I was unhappy with the quality of the car. When it was delivered, there were scratches 
on the alloy wheels, a dent in one of the doors, a faulty taillight and missing air caps.
Miss I contacted the broker who advised her that the issues could be repaired.
Following repairs, the car was returned to Miss I. The initial issues had been repaired but 
there was further damage to the car. Miss I asked to arrange GAP insurance, Scratch 
Protect and Alloy Protect but was advised that she needed to have purchased these 
products within 90 days of the point of supply.
Miss I complained to Leasys. In its final response, Leasys said it had tried to contact Miss I 
to investigate her concerns about the quality of the car but had been unsuccessful in 
speaking with her. It said it was unable to uphold the complaint as it hadnt seen any 
evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. With regards to the GAP insurance and 
after care products, Leasys said Miss I would have to take this up with the broker, as it was 
responsible for the sale of these products. 
Miss I was unhappy with Leasys response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was satisfied that there were defects with 
the car when it was supplied and that there was further damage after the repairs had been 
carried out. The investigator noted that a lot of Miss Is complaint points related to the 
service shed received from the broker and explained that these issues couldnt be looked 
into as part of a complaint against Leasys, because Leasys  as the finance provider - 
wasnt responsible for the actions of the broker. The investigator said that Leasys hadnt 
persuaded him that it had tried to contact Miss I about her complaint and acknowledge that 
Miss I had suffered some loss of enjoyment due to the issues with the car. He said he 
thought Leasys should pay compensation of £150  for distress and inconvenience and 
refund 5% of all monthly payments made by Miss I.
Miss I didnt agree. She didnt think the compensation reflected the extent of distress and 
inconvenience shed suffered. She set out in some detail the impact that the issues with the 
car had caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law, guidance, standards, codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Miss I was supplied with a car under a hire agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and one which we have the power to look into a complaint about.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this case. It implies that the supplier of goods  
Leasys  was required to ensure that the car was of satisfactory quality. In determining what 
is satisfactory quality, the CRA sets out factors which should be considered, such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality also includes factors such as 
fitness for purpose, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Miss I was supplied with a brand new car. So I think its fair to say that Miss I had an 
expectation that the car would be of a very high standard and that it wouldnt break or fail 
within a reasonable period.
From whats been said by all parties involved in this case, its clear that there were faults with 
the car when it was supplied. Its accepted by Miss I that these faults were repaired. But 
there was further damage when the car was returned to her.
I can see that Miss I raised the further damage with both the repairing garage and the 
broker. The damage included scratches to the passenger door and the bumper. Ive looked 
at the photos which Miss I supplied at the time. I can see that there are scratches to the door 
and bumper.
Because the car had faults when it was supplied, Im of the view that it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair. 
Because the car was returned to Miss I with further damage after it had been repaired, Im of 
the view that the car remained of unsatisfactory quality. Miss I couldve rejected the car at 
this point. Shes told this service that she decided not to reject the car because the 
agreement was coming to an end.
Miss I has raised a number of complaint points. Many of these relate to the service which 
she received from the broker. I appreciate that Miss I has had a frustrating experience. 
However, I cant fairly hold Leasys responsible for issues which dont arise out of the finance 
agreement.
That said, I think Leasys should accept some responsibility for what has gone wrong here. 
The car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, and this has impacted on Miss I. 
Shes had to return that car for repairs at a cost and an inconvenience to herself, at a time 
when she was trying to deal with several family related issues as well. Shes had to drive the 
car with damage, which has spoiled her enjoyment of it. And shes said that she didnt hear 
from Leasys when she raised her complaint, despite Leasys saying that it tried to contact 
her. I havent seen any evidence of Leasys attempts to contact Miss I, so Im minded to 
conclude that it failed to do so.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Leasys should refund a proportion of Miss Is monthly payments 
and pay compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ive considered what level of refund 
and compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I agree with the figures 
suggested by the investigator.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Leasys UK Ltd must:
Refund 5% of all monthly payments made by Miss I under the agreement together with 8% 
simple interest per annum on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman