DRN-4365085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G, through their representative, complain that The Mortgage Business Plc
(TMB) has treated them unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage, during a period
when it was no longer offering new mortgages. Mr and Mrs G say that because of their 
circumstances and the tighter lending rules around affordability checks, introduced as part of 
the Financial Authoritys (FCA) review in 2014, theyve been unable to re-mortgage 
elsewhere and as such, are considered mortgage prisoners.
What happened
In around May 2007 Mr and Mrs G took a mortgage with TMB. The mortgage was taken out 
on interest only terms over 20 years. Mr and Mrs G agreed the mortgage on a fixed interest 
rate of 5.49% until 31 July 2009. At which point the mortgage reverted to TMBs Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR). 
TMB withdrew from the mortgage market in 2008, which meant that after Mr and Mrs Gs 
fixed interest rate product ended, they were charged the SVR, and were unable to apply for 
a new fixed rate product with TMB. 
There were occasions during the period of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage where TMB customers 
could explore re-mortgage options through other lenders within the Lloyds Banking Group. It 
doesnt appear Mr and Mrs G explored those options and as such they remained on TMBs 
SVR until they redeemed their mortgage in November 2019, which according to TMB, was 
through a re-mortgage to a different lender.
Over the years spanning the period of the mortgage, there have been a number of changes 
to both the Bank of England base rate (base rate) and the SVR. The key things to note 
regarding the history of the changes are as follows:
From the mortgage start date in 2007 until January 2009, the variations TMB made to 
its SVR were largely made soon after the changes to the base rate and largely by the 
same amount  maintaining a margin of 2.44% during this time.
By March 2009 the difference between the base rate and the SVR increased from 
2.44% to 4.34%.
In 2011, TMB increased its SVR by 0.11% outside of any changes to base rate. It 
has told us this was due to an increase in the costs.
Following the change in 2011, TMBs SVR remained static at 4.95% until
September 2018. 
For the remainder of the mortgage, the changes TMB made to the SVR were largely 
made soon after changes were made to the base rate, and by the same amount. 
On 7 September 2021 Mr and Mrs Gs representative raised this complaint with TMB on their 
behalf. The complaint letter set out in summary:
TMB withdrew from the mortgage market in 2008 and stopped offering new interest
rate products. Because of the tighter rules around affordability checks introduced as
part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) review in 2014, Mr and Mrs G 
became mortgage prisoners and were unable to move their mortgage to another 
lender, with no choice but to remain on TMBs SVR.
The SVR charged by TMB since Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage reverted was unfairly 
high, especially in these circumstances where Mr and Mrs G and other customers 
were unable to re-mortgage with another lender.
The way TMBs margin between the SVR and the base rate increased over the years 
is unfair.
TMB's discretion to set and vary its SVR was subject to an implied term that it could
not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, arbitrarily, or in a
way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do.
TMBs actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA handbook whereby a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a 
breach of MCOB 11.8.1 which provides that in situations where a customer is either 
unable to enter into a new regulated mortgage contract with their existing lender or a 
new mortgage lender, a lender should not take advantage of the customers situation 
or treat them differently to other customers with similar characteristics.
Mr and Mrs G seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they paid
on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to what
they deem to be a reasonable rate.
TMB responded to the complaint on 2 November 2021. In summary it said it did not uphold
the complaint for the following reasons:
Part of the complaint about events that occurred more than six years before the
complaint was made had been brought too late.
The SVR is not a base rate tracker mortgage. The mortgage offer states the SVR is
variable (in the given circumstances) under the mortgage terms.
The mortgage terms and conditions set out when the SVR may be varied. When 
TMB exercised its right to vary the SVR, it did so in accordance with the terms and 
conditions.
TMB was entitled to make a commercial decision in 2008 to stop accepting any new
business applications. Its customers were made aware of such decision by letter in or
around August 2008. As was the case in October 2011, when Mr and Mrs G were
notified of an increase to the SVR due to changes in regulation regarding capital
reserves.
If Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the interest rate being charged on their mortgage
by TMB they were free to re-mortgage elsewhere. Over the years TMB has, in
several ways informed Mr and Mrs G of the options available to them if they wished
to explore re-mortgaging with a different lender including another company within the
Lloyds Banking Group. Its not clear what steps, if any, Mr and Mrs G took at the end
of the fixed rate period to review any options to re-mortgage.Mr and Mrs Gs representative referred this complaint to our service on 6 April 2022. Our 
investigator issued his opinion on the limitations to our jurisdiction and what this meant
for Mr and Mrs G. In summary, he said:
The complaint was raised on 24 August 2021, so he concluded that the complaint
about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years prior to this,
had been raised in time. Which would be from 24 August 2015 onward. So, he was 
satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 24 August 2015 
onward were fair and reasonable.
That under DISP 2.8.2(R) where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than
six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought within
three years from the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have
become aware, that they had cause for complaint. The investigator explained why
he thought Mr and Mrs G ought reasonably to have been aware of their cause for
complaint more than three years before making their complaint. So, he didnt think
this part of the rule gave them any more time to complain.
When considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 24 August 2015
onward, he would need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in
order to determine whether the rate charged during the period he can look at is fair.
He would also need to consider whether the variation clause is itself an unfair term
as a matter of law. He concluded both of these things were part of all the 
circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under the DISP rules and
are relevant to whether the interest charged from 24 August 2015 onward is fair and 
reasonable.
In the event he recommends any redress, he would only be able to award for the
period that is in scope of this complaint  24 August 2015 onward.
Mr and Mrs G accepted our investigators findings on our jurisdiction. TMB also hasnt
objected to our service continuing with our investigation of the complaint on this basis. As
such our investigator subsequently issued his opinion on the merits of Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint. The investigator first issued his opinion, not upholding this complaint on 
3 January 2023. He recently sent an updated view letter dated 7 September 2023. Although 
his opinion remained the same, the investigator expanded on certain parts of the complaint. 
His most recent opinion, in summary, said:
He doesnt agree that Mr and Mrs G can be defined as being mortgage prisoners. 
TMB has largely been an inactive lender since 2008. As an inactive lender TMB 
didnt offer any products to any of its customers. He explained why, in his opinion, 
TMB had not breached the relevant MCOB rules and why Mr and Mrs G havent 
been treated any less favourably than other TMB customers.
He accepts that TMB couldve done more to let its customers know sooner about the 
alternative specialist inter-group re-mortgage process in 2014. That said, in Mr and 
Mrs Gs case, hes not persuaded that even if theyd known about this route sooner, 
they would have acted any differently in the circumstances. So, he cant safely say 
that Mr and Mrs G had lost out due to TMBs actions. 
In relation to the interest rate charged during the mortgage term, he was satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage contract did not commit to track the base rate, they were
made sufficiently aware of the relevant terms and TMB has sought to charge interestin accordance with those terms. So, no unfairness has arisen for Mr and Mrs G.
The difference between the SVR and the base rate largely increased in 2009. The 
investigator set out that this was a time of significant change in the wider market as a 
result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and 
was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates. TMB has provided 
some available information to show that its cost of funds did not reduce in line with 
the base rate during this period.
For the remainder of the period (until the mortgage was redeemed), the only
changes TMB made to the SVR were made soon after changes were made to
the base rate, and by the same amount.
Overall, the investigator didnt think there was anything to suggest that TMB has
acted unfairly or unreasonably, or that Mr and Mrs G have overpaid interest.
The interest rate applied to this mortgage over the term has remained generally in
line with the SVRs of other similar lenders across the market. The rate Mr and Mrs G
paid was not an obvious outlier and was not manifestly excessive.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the investigators opinion. In summary it said:
It didnt agree with the conclusion reached regarding the unfair terms of the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs Gs primary complaint about a breach of an implied term has 
not been addressed by the investigator; and 
It does not agree with the investigators interpretation and response to whether 
TMB's actions as a closed book lender constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA 
handbook and a breach of MCOB 11.8.1.
As this complaint could not be resolved informally, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into
account the relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my
decision.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our
service.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be
disappointing for Mr and Mrs G. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
I have explained the position relating to TMBs objection to our service considering
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint under the DISP rules relating to time limits for bringing complaints.Ive also set out our investigators findings in relation to this.
Neither TMB or Mr and Mrs G have sought to challenge the findings of the investigator on
this point. But for completeness, I can confirm that I largely agree with the investigators
findings when considering our jurisdiction. The approach the investigator took reflects the 
decision of the High Court in an application for judicial review of another Ombudsmans 
decision in a similar case. As such I am satisfied:
I do have the power to consider a complaint about the amount and fairness of the
interest Mr and Mrs G have been charged, but only from 7 September 2015 onwards
 the complaint about charges before that date are out of time. I note the investigator
gave a date of 24 August 2015, but I have seen evidence that this complaint was in 
fact first raised on 7 September 2021; and
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charges that are in time, it is
necessary for me to take into account the historic changes to TMBs SVR, since
the SVR charged during the period that is in time is the result not only of decisions
TMB made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to it. This
includes considering whether the rate charged derived from earlier reliance on
an unfair term or for reasons other than those allowed by the contract. Thats
because each time TMB charges interest, it must have a fair and lawful basis for
doing so.
For similar reasons, Im satisfied our service only has the power to consider
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about their ability to obtain access a new interest rate with
TMB in the last six years leading up to their complaint being made  so from
7 September 2015 onwards. Mr and Mrs G say theyre unhappy about being on the
SVR as opposed to a fixed rate over the years. This is something they would have
known at the time over the years since 2008 and as such Mr and Mrs G ought
reasonably to have been aware of their cause for complaint more than three years
before making their complaint. So, I didnt think this part of the rule gives them any
more time to complain.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised many individual complaint points. However,
I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mr and Mrs Gs inability to access a new interest rate with TMB, which they say, by 
definition, made them mortgage prisoners; and
Mr and Mrs G have paid an unfairly high rate of interest compared to what they 
should have paid. The way in which TMB has exercised its discretion to set and vary 
its SVR is in breach of an implied term.
Our investigator has issued a lengthy view addressing Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. The 
investigators view echos a previous Ombudsmans lead decision which is indicative of our 
services approach to cases like this one about TMB. There are also many other published 
decisions of this nature against several other lenders that set out our services approach on 
similar cases. 
Its important to note that the complaints brought to our service by Mr and Mrs Gs 
representative about TMB are identical to one and other. Notwithstanding that each 
customers circumstances must be considered individually - the key facts and substance of 
these complaints remains the same. Its for these reasons that I dont think its necessary to repeat everything our service has 
already set out in previous final decisions. Rather Ill summarise the key findings, turning my 
attention specifically to the reasons why Mr and Mrs Gs representative say they remain 
unhappy with the response given by our investigator. 
Access to interest rates
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage was taken out in 2007. Under the terms of the mortgage offer, 
they had a fixed interest rate until 2009, after which the mortgage would revert to TMBs
SVR  and this in fact happened. Neither the mortgage offer nor the mortgage terms and 
conditions say that TMB has to make another fixed rate available after the initial one ended, 
or that it has to offer Mr and Mrs G any rate other than the SVR.
This means that Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage has operated as the contract said it would, on the 
terms they agreed to when they borrowed the funds in 2007. And theres nothing beyond the
mortgage terms which say that TMB has to offer new rates either  theres no law, or rule
of mortgage regulation which says that a lender has to offer new rates to existing customers.
From 2008, TMB was not offering new rates to any existing customers. Until 2011, there was 
an option of re-mortgaging directly to another lender within the same group (subject to 
application). In October 2011 the option of an inter-group re-mortgage was no longer 
possible. TMB did not start offering this option again until 2014. As Ive said, it was not 
obliged to do so. Mr and Mrs G were not therefore being treated any differently to other TMB 
customers. Their mortgage was operating as it should have done according to its terms and 
conditions. And therefore, I dont think TMB treated them unfairly in respect of in the interest 
it charged them during this period.
In April 2014 TMB decided to offer their customers another specialist inter-group re-
mortgage to Bank of Scotland, subject to eligibility. Our service isnt satisfied that TMB made 
this sufficiently clear to all its customers until it changed the wording in its annual statements 
from 2019 onwards  which made this option clearer. So, Im satisfied that there was a 
period between 2014 and 2019 when customers could have potentially lost out on the option 
of securing a new fixed rate deal  had they wanted one.
After considering all the evidence provided, I do conclude that TMB should have informed 
Mrs and Mr G in April 2014 of the possibility of applying for a new interest rate product using 
the internal re-mortgaging process, or at the very least invited them to call TMB to discuss 
the interest rate, as they did do as part of their 2019 statements.
Whilst its not in dispute that TMB ought to have given clearer information to its customers 
sooner than it did, that doesnt automatically follow that our service will uphold every 
complaint of this nature. Its necessary to consider each consumers circumstances 
individually to establish on balance whether theyd likely have acted differently, had they 
known of their options sooner. That said, Ive thought about the fairness of this in the context 
of Mr and Mrs Gs case and Im not persuaded that they would have acted differently in the 
circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
At a general level, SVRs have a legitimate purpose and can benefit consumers through 
providing flexibility. There is no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs G actively sought a new 
rate from TMB during their mortgage term or that they tried to re-mortgage with a different 
lender. In addition, theres nothing to suggest they expressed any form of concern about 
their inability to access a new interest rate until their representative raised the complaint for 
them after the mortgage was redeemed. So, on balance, the information presented to me 
suggests that at the time, remaining on TMBs SVR appears to have suited Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances. Im also not persuaded that they werent able to re-mortgage with a different lender, had they tried. I say this because from the information available they were 
successfully able to re-mortgage with a different (mainstream) lender in 2019 without any 
known difficulty. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Gs representatives arguments in relation to the FCAs rules and 
regulations they say apply here. 
The FCA has, in the MCOB handbook, set out an evidential provision for the fair treatment of 
customers who are unable to source deals with their existing lender or move their mortgage 
elsewhere. Im satisfied MCOB 11.8.1 E applies here. 
In summary, in situations where a customer is either unable to enter into a new regulated 
mortgage contract with their existing lender or a new mortgage lender, a lender should not 
take advantage of the customers situation or treat them differently to other customers with 
similar characteristics. To do so may be in contravention of Principle 6.
There was a period where Mr and Mrs G were unable to access a new product with TMB. As 
such they satisfy 11.8.1 (1). Whilst Im not persuaded that they couldnt obtain a new 
mortgage with a new lender, the provision still applies as 11.8.1 does not require both (1) 
and (2) to be satisfied before it is relevant to considering whether they were fairly treated, it 
requires either to be satisfied. 
11.8.1 E does not require all customers to be treated the same. But it does, in my view,
show that there may be unfairness where a borrower is treated less favourably than a 
borrower who shares similar characteristics, for example, by offering less favourable 
interest rates or other terms. Where the lender offers less favourable products to some 
customers, it may give rise to the possibility of unfair outcomes in some situations.
For reasons Ive explained, Mr and Mrs G werent being treated any differently to any other 
TMB customer and as such there has been no contravention of Principle 6. So, Im unable to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs G were treated unfairly by TMB in relation to accessing a lower 
interest rate.
That leads me to consider whether TMB took advantage of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
by setting the SVR unfairly during this period. 
The fairness of the interest rate charged
Our investigator already set out the relevant terms of the mortgage, specifically those set out 
in Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer and those in relation to how the SVR operated. Hes also 
explained in detail why he is satisfied that TMB has operated within the relevant terms and 
conditions and that the way the terms have been used hasnt resulted in Mrs Mr and Mrs G 
being treated unfairly. This is supported by extracts of information TMB has provided about 
the impact of its funding costs during the global financial crisis. Albeit limited due to the time 
thats passed - this information is corroborated by what we know about general market 
conditions at that time.
When considering everything I am not persuaded that TMB operated the express contract 
terms in an unfair manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mr and 
Mrs Gs mortgage. I dont think there is any basis to say that TMB somehow contributed to 
Mr and Mrs G being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage during the 
period I can consider, and Ive seen no evidence to say that the interest they charged during 
that period was unfair for any other reason.
The representative continues to argue that TMB has breached what it says was an impliedterm, not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or
irrationally. Our service has explained in several decisions thus far our position in relation to 
this point. For the reasons set out above, if there was such a duty in the present case, Im
satisfied that TMB did not breach it since it approached the question of varying the SVR in
line with the express terms of the contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as such I dont expect The Mortgage 
Business Plc to take any action in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman