DRN-3311650
The complaint
Ms J and Mr M complain HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded a default on Mr Ms credit file after 
they fell into arrears on their joint current account overdraft.
As this decision only deals with the default being applied to Mr Ms credit file, Ive mainly 
referred to him throughout the rest of the decision.
What happened
Mr M had a £5,000 agreed overdraft limit  he exceeded his limit by around £3,500. This 
meant that action was needed to return the account to be within the limit of £5,000. Mr M 
says that for around ten months the account didnt have any funds paid into it. He says on 
numerous occasions during 2020 he told HSBC he was in the process of selling a property, 
which would then clear the overdraft. He says despite telling HSBC of his new address, 
correspondence was sent to his old address meaning he wasnt told the account was going 
to be closed  or that a default would be registered. He says he was never told on the phone 
his credit rating could be affected.
HSBC said they couldnt locate any agreement in which theyd stop their collections process 
for the outstanding amount. They said the Final Demand was sent to Mr M, at the address 
they held on file for him, on 17 August 2020. This Final Demand said if Mr M didnt repay the 
overdrawn amount of £8,342.65, then they would report a default to the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs). HSBC added its Mr Ms responsibility to keep his address up to date with 
them. Overall, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M asked us to look into things, saying hed seen copies of the 
correspondence. He says he was provided with one letter thatd been sent to the wrong 
address, and an undated letter to the correct address. He says he received neither of these 
letters but did have redirection on his post. And he didnt think sending these documents out 
by post during the Covid-19 pandemic was safe either.
One of our Investigators considered Mr Ms complaint but found HSBC had done everything 
they should have by writing to him. She said she found no evidence of the calls hed referred 
to and couldnt see hed updated his address with HSBC.
In response Mr M maintained he had spoken with HSBC on the phone, had updated his 
address with them, and didnt think the letters being sent was enough. Mr M also said he 
was going to get evidence of the calls. Mr M updated us and said he received a reply from 
his phone provider, but they were the wrong customer details. Later on, he said hed 
received a CD with the data on it but needed to access it. The last update from Mr M 
regarding the calls was a court order is needed to access the call logs. Ive also noted Mr M 
has concerns over not receiving copies of letters to his online account with HSBC.
As Mr M didnt agree with the outcome of his case, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has explained there were a lot of phone calls between him and HSBC where they 
agreed to keep the account open prior to the default letters. Hes suggested one part of 
HSBC doesnt know what the other part is doing.
As Mr M knows, weve asked HSBC for all records regarding phone contact he had with 
them, and theyve not been able to provide us with anything to show he was speaking to 
them, and had reached this agreement, as hes said. So, we asked him to provide the call 
logs to show he had been speaking to them as hed said. As Ive set out above, hes not able 
to provide us with this evidence.
I think this is unfortunate, but I can only decide Mr Ms case based on the evidence available 
to me. Here, Ive seen nothing from HSBC to suggest Mr M had reached an arrangement 
with them  otherwise why would they be sending the letters asking him to repay the debt. 
And there are no phone records, from either HSBC or Mr M himself, to show these 
conversations took place. Without that, I cant reasonably say there was any agreement 
reached in phone calls before the default was applied  as there is no evidence of the calls, 
and the evidence I do have (the letters) suggest no agreement was reached.
Ive seen Mr M also had concerns about his address being updated, and said hed tried to do 
it many times with HSBC. Again though, Ive seen no evidence of Mr M attempting to change 
this prior to May 2020 when it was changed. But, even if HSBC didnt change it, Mr M has 
said he had postal redirect. So, regardless of whether it was or wasnt changed, it seems 
Mr M should have received the letters sent anyway.
In respect of Mr Ms concerns about HSBC using the postal method during Covid-19, 
although I know, at times, there were some delays, there isnt any suggestion post was 
routinely going missing during this time. 
Similarly, with the online records of the letters. Mr M has been clear and consistent saying 
he was under the impression an agreement had been reached and that he didnt have to 
repay the overdraft straightaway. But, again, HSBC were writing to him, at the address they 
held for him at the time, saying he needed to pay it back. So, while its unclear whether they 
did or didnt put the letters on the online account, I dont think this makes a material 
difference. I say that because, as Ill go on to explain, Ive found they did send out the letters 
as they were required to do.
Ive seen our Investigator set out a clear timeline of the letters HSBC say they sent  most of 
which are asking Mr M to repay the overdraft. Mr M, in response, has told us he received 
some of these, but not two letters I think are key.
The first is dated 14 April 2020  which says HSBC might default the account and report this 
to the CRAs. And the second letter is dated 17 August 2020 saying the final payment is due 
by 4 September 2020 otherwise the account will be defaulted.
The first of these letters was sent to Mr Ms old address. But hes told us he had postal 
redirect so at face value there isnt any reason why he shouldnt have received this. 
The second letter was sent to Mr Ms correct address  again, there isnt any reason I can 
see why he wouldnt have received this.Both letters are correctly addressed to the respective addresses as far as I can see. I 
understand Mr M says he didnt get these letters. And Ive seen no reason to question 
Mr Ms comments about this. But, ultimately, what Im testing is whether HSBC have carried 
out their actions correctly. Here, Im satisfied they did send out copies of these letters to the 
two addresses  both of which said they might report a default to the CRAs if the payment 
wasnt made to bring the account up to date. There isnt any dispute that the account wasnt 
brought up to date by 4 September 2020 as HSBC required.
So, taking everything into account, there are no records of any phone contact showing an 
agreement to not have to repay the overdraft straightaway, HSBC did correctly send letters 
asking for repayment of the overdraft, and the overdraft wasnt repaid by the required date. 
Because of this, I wont be requiring HSBC to remove the default from Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman