DRN-2291674
The complaint
Mrs H seeks a partial refund of an advice related fee she paid to Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) in 2010.
What happened
Barclays Wealth Management service recommended, to Mrs H (in 2010), the investment of 
£350,000 in an International Offshore Bond (the bond). For this purpose, Barclays also 
opened an Execution Only account for her  she was an investment professional at the time 
and did not require ongoing investment advice for the bond. However, she paid an advice 
related fee to Barclays and she has highlighted that the fee included the following (as quoted 
from the Financial Planning Report (the report) Barclays sent her at the time)  
An initial charge of 2%  This covers Legal & Generals costs of setting up the bond 
wrapper and our initial and ongoing advice I am giving you. [my emphasis]
 Barclays Wealth Private Bank would be involved in the management of drawing benefits 
and would be able to advise you, working with your tax advisers as required, on the most tax 
efficient ways of drawing funds. [my emphasis]
Mrs H has quoted further from the report to support the following:
That her objective for the bond was to serve as an investment  in terms of growth 
and tax efficient income  for the future purpose of funding her childs private 
secondary school fees. 
This objective, in 2010, involved an outlook of around 11 years  as her child was 
around two years old at the time. In the interim, no drawings from the bond were 
planned or needed  it was also Barclays recommendation, based on Mrs Hs 
position, not to take such drawings.
The hybrid of an execution only account alongside an arrangement for ongoing 
advice was based specifically on the idea that she did not need investment advice for 
the bond during the relevant 11 years, but she would need advice on drawing from 
the bond, in the most efficient way, thereafter. 
In 2015 Barclays terminated its execution only account service. The options it gave Mrs H 
included the following:
To transfer to its advisory or discretionary management service.
To transfer to a custody and sale only account service whereby purchase dealing 
would not be permitted, but sales were permitted, and the proceeds of such sales 
could be held in cash.
To transfer to another firm.
Mrs H found that none of the account options appealed to her (or her needs)  as an 
investment professional herself, she needed neither the advisory nor discretionary 
management service; and the custody and sale account service essentially negated any 
ability to conduct dealings in the bond. She began the process of moving the bond to 
another firm in 2018.
Both parties have commented on the merits (or otherwise) of the decision to terminate the 
execution only service  with Barclays stressing that it was a reasonable exercise of its 
commercial discretion  and on the merits (or otherwise) of the above options. However, Mrs 
Hs complaint arises from the termination event itself. 
She says she paid, in 2010, a total fee to Barclays that included a sub-fee for a specific 
advisory service that would be required from around 2021 onwards; that this relates to the 
drawings that would be made from the bond from that year onwards; that this was clearly 
understood and agreed between her and Barclays at the time; that the same is reflected  
throughout the report; and that the decision in 2015  which included confirmation that no 
advisory service will be given in the custody and sale account  meant she had paid up front 
for a service that she would no longer be getting. It is on this basis that she claims a partial 
refund of the fee she paid.
Barclays disputes the assertion that Mrs H paid up front for advice she would receive at the 
future points of drawing from or closing the bond. In the main, it says the advice related fee 
she paid was for the initial advice she was given and for any ongoing advice given during the 
period the bond remained with it; and that it was her choice to transfer the bond away; so, for 
these reasons, it would not be fair to give her the refund she has requested.
One of our investigators concluded as follows:
She noted and agreed with Barclays offer to Mrs H of £500 for the trouble and upset 
the matter had caused her.
She broadly agreed with Mrs Hs claim but noted the absence of information to 
confirm precisely how much of the total fee she paid (around £7,000) related to the 
future advice she needed. 
She considered that a fair outcome would be for Barclays to increase its offer to 
£1,000  covering the trouble and upset caused to Mrs H in the entire matter.
Barclays disputed this outcome and retained its position on the complaint  that it was Mrs 
Hs choice to transfer the bond and that it did not undertake to give her tax related advice on 
withdrawals from the bond. The investigator then asked for its explanation of what was being 
offered to Mrs H in terms of advising her on tax efficient drawings from the bond (as quoted 
above). Barclays said it would have been limited to requesting up-to-date information about 
the bond from the Bond Provider; to presenting such information (and relevant documents) 
to Mrs H in writing; and then to forwarding to any withdrawal application she made to the 
Bond Provider.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs complaint is focused on the specific advice service  as she has described and as I 
have summarised above  which she says she paid for but was deprived, because of 
Barclays service changes in 2015. The specific advice service I refer to is that related to 
making tax efficient withdrawals from the bond from 2021 onwards.My initial observation is that the issue in dispute is not about Barclays discretion to review 
and/or revise the services it provides. I am satisfied that it had such discretion in 2015 and it 
does not appear that Mrs H has argued otherwise. I consider her point is that Barclays had 
received payment for the specific advice service and was contractually obliged to deliver it, 
irrespective of its service changes in 2015.
In terms of the bond being moved away from Barclays, I do not consider that it was as 
simple as a matter of choice for Mrs H. Given that Barclays change of service meant the 
account (and associated service) no longer catered for her needs and given that there were 
no alternatives within Barclays that did so, it is more accurate to say the change of service 
prompted her decision to move the bond.
I am persuaded that there is a reasonable amount of merit in Mrs Hs claim. However, and 
as identified by the investigator, a notable flaw within it is the lack of evidence of precisely 
what the specific advice service cost her  which essentially means the claim cannot 
accurately be quantified. Given that it is a claim for a refund, it cannot fairly be resolved on 
an arbitrary calculation  such refund should accurately reflect the relevant payment (or any 
relevant part of it) for the service in dispute. In the alternative, I agree with the investigators 
proposal  as I summarise and order further below.
The report features enough contents to establish that investing and providing for her childs 
private secondary school fees was the only driving force and objective behind Mrs Hs 
investment in the bond. The report cites her as being an investment/finance professional (at 
a high level) and being without the need for advice from Barclays in terms of investments 
within the bond. As such, the use of an execution only account makes sense. 
However, logic in having the execution only account is then tested by the fact that she paid 
for an ongoing advice service. Such a service conflicts with the idea of an execution only 
account (where, ordinarily, no advice is included). In reading the report as a whole  
especially the areas in which Mrs Hs objectives are addressed and where the bonds 
relevance to those objectives are addressed  ample evidence from it provides support for 
the arrangement that she has described. 
On balance, I accept that the arrangement was indeed to have an execution only service in 
the context that it was for dealing purposes only  no ongoing investment advice (for 
investments within the bond) would be required and none would be given; but it was 
expressly coupled with a deferred service in which future advice on drawing from the bond 
(when the objective for the bond was to be discharged) would be required by Mrs H and 
would be given to her by Barclays. Fair and meaningful reading of the report illustrates this 
arrangement. The deferred service is what she paid for but did not receive.
I do not accept Barclays suggestion (or argument) that its role to advise on tax efficient 
drawings from the bond was limited to conveying information back and forth between Mrs H 
and the Bond Provider  there is no element of advice in this.
Putting things right
In the absence of a credible and accurate basis upon which to calculate a refund to Mrs H, I 
am satisfied that she must be compensated for the trouble and upset that has been caused 
to her by what would have seemed to her, in 2015, like an abruptly unfair termination of the 
deferred service she had relied upon for the future and for having paid for that service only to 
be deprived of it (without a refund).
For the above reasons, I agree with the investigators conclusion and I order Barclays to pay 
£1,000 to Mrs H.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to pay her £1,000 within 28 days of receipt of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman