DRN-3845259
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the service he received from TSB Bank plc (TSB Bank) when he was 
trying to access the funds he held in a savings account with them.  
What happened
Mr S said that he went to a TSB Bank branch, on 26 April 2022, to request a cheque to be 
drawn on his savings account he held with them. He said that during that visit he was told 
there would be a £20 charge to issue the cheque, but Mr S said that he wasnt happy with 
this. So, as an alternative option, he said he was offered a bank transfer free of charge, but 
he didnt want this option as he still wanted a cheque. As Mr S felt he couldnt get access to 
his funds, next day he raised a complaint with TSB Bank. 
Mr S said that, on the same day, he immediately received a response from TSB Bank. But 
he was unhappy as this response was sent without any kind of investigation and it didnt 
provide any explanation. So, he said that on a few more occasions he chased TSB Bank for 
a response and that on each call TSB Bank staff reminded him that he could refer his 
complaint to our service, as TSB Bank have already issued a response on his complaint the 
same day his complaint was raised (27 April 2022).
A few days later, after visiting the first branch and initially raising his complaint with TSB 
Bank, Mr S went to a different branch of TSB Bank. This second branch gave him a cheque 
and didnt charge him the £20 that the first branch wanted to charge him. So, he is unhappy 
as he thinks he was not treated right at the first branch as he feels they lied to him that there 
is a £20 charge. Mr S also said that this second branch told him that he cant have a bank 
transfer as funds were held in a savings account and not a current account. 
Mr S also said that in between the two branch visits, he checked with the head office of TSB 
Bank who also said that there was a £20 charge. So, he is unhappy about the conflicting 
information he received from different areas of the TSB Bank. Hes also unhappy with the 
customer service he received during the time he was dealing with this issue and trying to get 
an explanation. And he said that the delay had caused him financial loss as he wanted to 
invest the funds somewhere else. Overall, he would like TSB Bank to provide him financial 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in the region of around £200. 
TSB Bank said that when Mr S visited one of their branches, they advised him that he could 
order a bankers draft for a fee of £20. So, they said, that the first branch didnt lie to Mr S 
and they provided a copy of the terms and conditions for his account that shows that there is 
a £20 charge for a bankers draft. They also said that the first branch offered him alternative 
options, such as an ATM card and a cheque book, but they said Mr S rejected these options.
TSB Bank said that on 3 May 2022 Mr S asked for a banker draft of £12,750 and this was 
issued the same day. TSB Bank explained to our service that they apply a £20 charge for a 
bankers draft, but this can be waived as a goodwill gesture. And they told our service that 
they have no record of incorrectly advising Mr S that a bank transfer can be made from his 
savings account. 
Mr S was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said she hasnt been able to find an error made by TSB Bank, and she said 
that the terms and conditions of Mr Ss savings account say they apply a £20 charge for a 
bankers draft.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr S thinks he was not treated fairly at the first branch because he feels that they lied to him 
that there is a £20 charge for requesting a cheque. Mr S said that the head office of TSB 
Bank also told him that there was a £20 charge, but he said the second branch he visited 
didnt charge him the £20. So overall, he is unhappy about the conflicting information he 
received from different areas of the TSB Bank and he said that the delay had caused him 
financial loss as he wanted to invest the funds somewhere else.
So, Ive taken all the above into consideration, but for me to uphold Mr Ss complaint I would 
need to be satisfied that TSB Bank have treated him unfairly.  
Having examined the terms and conditions of the savings account in question, I can see that 
TSB Bank can charge £20 for a bankers draft/cheque. So, the information Mr S was given at 
the first branch and from the head office of TSB Bank was correct. Also, just because the 
second branch didnt charge him the £20 doesnt automatically mean he received conflicting 
information, or that they were not entitled to charge for a bankers draft/cheque. Sometimes 
businesses can waive a fee as a goodwill gesture. So overall, I cant say that TSB Bank 
have treated him unfairly. And as there was no error on their part, I cant reasonably say that 
they would be responsible for the delay in Mr S receiving access to his funds.
I appreciate that Mr S has very strong feelings about his complaint and that he feels he 
wasnt treated fairly at the first branch. But as I already explained, there was no error on the 
branchs part as the terms and condition of his account do say that they can charge £20 for a 
bankers draft/cheque. And from the contact notes provided by TSB Bank, I can see that the 
first branch did try to be helpful by offering Mr S other options for getting access to his funds. 
Some of these options included getting Mr S an ATM card and a cheque book, but the notes 
show that Mr S rejected these options. So, I dont have enough information to say that, most 
likely, they didnt treat him fairly or that they werent helpful at that time.
I know that Mr S is also unhappy that the response he received from TSB Bank on 27 April 
2022 was sent without any kind of investigation and it didnt provide any explanation he was 
after. That is why he said that, on a few more occasions he had to chase TSB Bank for a 
response. But I dont think Mr S has lost out as a result of this, as he wasnt prevented from 
bringing his complaint to our service for an impartial review. He himself confirmed to our 
service that when he was chasing TSB Bank for a response, on each call their staff 
reminded him that he could refer his complaint to our service, as TSB Bank have already 
issued a response to his complaint. And Ive also considered that it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable for Mr S to check the terms and conditions of his savings account himself to 
check whether there is a charge for a bankers draft/cheque.  Mr S also told us that he is unhappy because he was given incorrect information regarding a 
bank transfer. He said that the first branch of TSB Bank told him that he could request a 
bank transfer, while the second branch said that this was not possible from the type of the 
savings account, he held with them. Ive taken this into consideration, and I dont know if Mr 
S was or wasnt given incorrect information at the time, but I dont think Mr S has lost out 
because of this. I say this because when he was at the first branch, he didnt want this option 
as he wanted a cheque. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr S for the difficulties that he had experienced but, taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr S has been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman