DRN-2535528
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC will not provide him with statements on his account going back to 
1992.
What happened
Ms P brings this complaint on behalf of Mr D but for clarity Ill refer to Mr D throughout.
Mr D says he needs copies of his bank statement for the period between 1992 and 1999 to 
show what payments hed made to HMRC during that time. Although his account at this time 
was with the Midland Bank, that bank was taken over by HSBC in the 1990s so he feels 
HSBC is now responsible for these records. 
Mr D complains that HSBC has said it cant provide the statements as it can only go back six 
years but Mr D doesnt agree. He says it can do so for other reasons such as tax, fraud or 
PPI claims so he feels it should be possible.
HSBC said it wasnt able to provide the information Mr D wanted as, in line with the data 
protection regulations, it only holds statement for 6 years. It noted what Mr D had said about 
other matters, such as PPI, but it said it was able to use other information for this, such as 
the account details or credit agreements, which were retained for longer This didnt apply to 
the statements that were stored and sent out electronically.
Mr D wasnt satisfied so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but said he didnt feel HSBC had acted unfairly. 
While he could appreciate how important this issue was for Mr D, HSBCs approach was in 
line with its policy on historic statements that said statements were only held for seven years 
from the end of the year the statement was produced and could only be printed going back 
six years. Mr D was looking for statements going back to 1992 which was well outside of the 
time limit. In the circumstances he didnt feel HSBC had made a mistake so he couldnt ask it 
to do anything more.
Mr D asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He remained unhappy that 
HSBC wasnt able to provide the information he was seeking. And he maintained that HSBC 
would be able to locate the information for some reasons such as fraud or PPI so he felt it 
should still be available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen what Mr D has said about why he needs this information and why its so important 
to him. I can understand that and Ive every sympathy with the position he now finds himself 
in. However, I dont consider HSBC has acted unfairly as Ill now explain.
HSBC, like most businesses, sets time limits on how long it holds sensitive customer 
information. This is to protect both the customer and the bank and is in line with data 
protection regulations. HSBCs policy on historic statements confirms that HSBC cant print 
statements going back more than 6 years. And it doesnt hold historic statements for more 
than 7 years from the end of the year the statement was produced.
I can see how important this issue is for Mr D and Ive made further enquiries with HSBC to 
see if theres any way it can access this information but its confirmed its been unable to 
access any information online going back beyond 2005. Unfortunately, the information Mr D 
requires goes back to 1992. Thats more than 30 years ago and is well outside of HSBCs 
retention policy for such information. For that reason, I cant reasonably criticise HSBC for 
not having this information to hand now.
And because it cant access the information, its not able to provide it to Mr D. I know this 
isnt the answer Mr D was hoping for but HSBC has acted in line with its own policies and 
with data protection guidelines, so I cant reasonably say its made a mistake.
Ive taken into account what Mr D has said about the time limits for some other investigations 
such as PPI, fraud or tax. But as HSBC has said, the information it can use for these 
investigations is different to the bank statements Mr D is seeking. Unfortunately, even if 
those documents were available on Mr Ds account, I cant see that they would provide the 
information hes seeking so that wouldnt resolve his problem.
Im sorry I havent been able to assist Mr D but I dont consider HSBC has made a mistake 
or acted unreasonably and, for that reason, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman