DRN-3595334
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly registered a 
default with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Mr I was unable to work in early 2020 due to the pandemic. He informed Barclaycard about 
this and he says his account was placed on a 30 day hold with interest suspended. He says 
he spoke with them each month and his account had the interest suspended. He says on 27 
August 2020, he completed an income and expenditure form and it showed he had a 
negative disposable income. 
Mr I says that he was placed on an informal arrangement and Barclaycard issued a letter on 
27 August 2020 informing him that he needed to make a payment by 28 September 2020 to 
avoid a default being registered with the CRAs. Mr I says he made a payment of £580.10 to 
satisfy the default notice, but Barclaycard said he was unable to make contractual payments 
due to his earnings still being affected by the pandemic, and so they registered a default on 
28 August 2020. His account was then passed to a third party debt management company 
(DMC) in March 2021.
Mr I says that he tried to get credit from a third party company in 2022, but they declined his 
application due to the default from Barclaycard. He says that Barclaycard told him that his 
credit file would not be affected by the transfer to the DMC, but it had been. Mr I made a 
complaint to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard did not uphold Mr Is complaint. They said he contacted them in March 2020 
about his financial difficulty and they placed the account on hold for 30 days. They said he 
continued to keep them updated on his circumstances monthly and to support him, they 
placed a number of holds on his account with interest suspended. They said they were 
unable to place his account on a formal repayment plan due to him having a negative 
disposable income. Barclaycard said on 14 September 2020, they received a payment of 
£580.10 to satisfy the default notice. But as he was unable to return to his contractual 
payments, they said the default was registered correctly on 28 August 2020. Barclaycard 
said their terms and conditions show that they can transfer his account to a DMC, and this is 
what they did on 4 March 2021.
Mr I brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Is complaint. 
He said when Mr I spoke with Barclaycard in August 2020, his income and expenditure 
showed that any payments were unaffordable, and this also meant that a formal 
arrangement couldnt be offered, so moving to an account closure and default was fair as 
this would see the balance no longer increase and stop interest permanently. Our 
investigator said moving the debt to a DMC was in line with the terms and conditions. Mr I 
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Mr I had trouble making his repayments in early 2020 originally. Ive read everything 
that he has said about his difficulty during this timeframe, so Im aware of his circumstances 
here. So Ive considered whether a default could have been avoided in Mr Is circumstances, 
but Im persuaded that a default was always likely to be inevitable based on his 
circumstances at the time and Ill explain why. 
When Mr I informed Barclaycard of his financial difficulties due to the pandemic, there was 
no official guidance in place for payment holidays. Even before he contacted them in March, 
his February statement showed he was over his credit limit. Barclaycard placed the account 
on hold for 30 days. This would not stop arrears building, but I can see from Mr Is credit 
card statements that no interest was added to his account in March 2020. 
By the time there was official guidance in place for payment holidays due to the impact of the 
pandemic, Mr I was in arrears on his account in addition to still being over his credit limit. 
And therefore Barclaycard would not have to offer him a payment holiday. But Barclaycard 
showed Mr I forbearance by applying further holds to his account, which would have 
prevented interest and charges being applied to his account. So Im satisfied they were fair 
to do this here. 
When Barclaycard completed a budget planner with Mr I - which showed he had more 
outgoings than income, they would not have been able to set up a formal repayment plan as 
there was no disposable income to pay for this. So as Mr Is situation hadnt improved five 
months after he first contacted Barclaycard to let them know about his financial difficulty, 
they issued a default notice. Barclaycard are required to factually report payment history to 
the CRAs. As it didnt appear that Mr Is circumstances would be changing anytime soon, 
Im satisfied it was proportionate for Barclaycard to issue a default notice here.
But Mr I did make the required payment before the date given on the default notice. So Im 
persuaded that Barclaycard may have been premature in registering a default prior to the 
deadline date they gave him. But given that the budget planner said he had no disposable 
income to make a formal arrangement plan and that Barclaycard said Mr I was making 
payments of £50 a month after the default, compared to his credit card statements showing 
a minimum payment required of over £300 a month prior to his financial difficulty, then even 
if Barclaycard didnt register the default in August 2020, the arrears would have built up and 
based on Mr Is payments, the default would have been registered months later. 
So while Im persuaded Barclaycard have registered the default earlier than they should 
have done here, Im also persuaded they would have eventually registered a default when 
Mr I was unable to return to his contractual monthly payments after clearing the arrears. So 
because of when Barclaycard registered the default, this would be in Mr Is favour as this 
would drop off his credit file earlier than if it was registered months later. As this is in Mr Is 
favour, I wont be asking them to move the date of default to a later date.
Ive considered whether Barclaycard were reasonable to transfer the account to a DMC. And 
Im persuaded that they were. I say this as their terms and conditions (section 19), shows 
that We may transfer to any other person any or all of our rights and duties under this 
agreement at any time (including, without limitation, our duty to lend to you). We may do this 
without telling you. So I cant say that Barclaycard have done anything wrong here.
I know Mr I has concerns that the transfer of his account to a DMC may negatively affect his 
credit file. So he may wish to check his credit file to ensure the accurate information is 
recorded on there and that only one default is showing. If there is any incorrect information, he may want to contact any company who has recorded any incorrect information on his 
credit file to have this corrected. 
It's clear to me what a difficult time Mr I has been through and is going through here. He was 
clearly trying to be proactive in dealing with his finances at a very tough time. Mr I had been 
making repayments to the account and this should be reflected on his credit file.
In addition, Mr I may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to 
explain what happened here. This is a short explanatory note that he can add to an entry on 
his credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who searches his credit 
report, such as a loan provider, would see the notice of correction and take the notice into 
account if they viewed his credit file. Prospective lenders will each consider a notice like this 
differently and it isn't a guarantee that they will put the underlying payment information to 
one side. But given how strongly Mr I feels here - it is an option that is open to him. He would 
need to contact the CRAs to do this. But it follows, for the reasons Ive previously given, that 
I wont be asking Barclaycard to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman