DRN-4324320
The complaint
Mr T says Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined his claim following an escape of 
water and avoided his home buildings insurance policy from the date of his claim.  
What happened
In December 2022 Mr T identified a leak from an upstairs pipe. He arranged for it to be 
located and fixed. He then contacted Aviva to make a claim. He says it initially accepted his 
claim but later told him it was declined, and his policy was cancelled. 
Mr T says Aviva declined his claim because hed made a claim seven years earlier involving 
his downstairs toilet. He says there was a small section of tiling that he didnt have repaired 
from the original claim. This overlaps with the damage reported in his most recent claim. Mr 
T says this was a mistake when he made his claim, but he doesnt think its fair for Aviva to 
respond the way it has.
In its final complaint response Aviva says there are areas of damage that form part of Mr Ts 
current claim, that werent repaired using the cash settlement from his claim in 2017. It says 
in these circumstances its able to rely on its policy terms to decline his current claim and 
avoid his policy from the date this was made. 
Mr T didnt think Aviva had treated him fairly. So, he contacted our service and asked us to 
consider the matter. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Mr T received a 
payment in 2017 for repairs to his hallway and downstairs toilet. He didnt complete these 
repairs and included the same areas in his most recent claim. Our investigator didnt think 
Aviva had behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms to decline the claim and avoid 
the policy. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill explain 
why I think my decision is fair. 
Aviva refers to a claim Mr T made under his buildings insurance in 2017. It says the damage 
hes now claiming for the hallway floor, and the tiles in his downstairs toilet, was included in 
its previous settlement payment. I asked Aviva to provide the records showing what was 
included in Mr Ts 2017 claim. It responded providing a scope of works. This shows the 
repairs to the hallway floor and tiles in the downstairs toilet were included in this claim. The 
document provided states the claim was cash settled in December 2017. 
I can see that Avivas claims manager wrote to Mr T on 25 January 2023. He says having 
looked at the photos from the 2017 claim compared with the current claim, neither the 
bathroom wall tiles, nor the hallway flooring were ever replaced. The letter says that Mr Ts 
wife recalled the hallway, stairs, and landing were redecorated, and new flooring laid by a 
contractor approved by Aviva. 
In his emailed letter the claims manager says hes double checked what happened, and no 
work was carried out by Avivas contractor. It says the claim was cash settled for £971.96 
after deduction of the policy excess. The claims manager reiterates his view that he didnt 
think repairs had taken place and asked Mr T to comment. 
Mr T emailed Avivas claims manager back on 25 January 2023. He says the hallway 
flooring has been replaced. However, he does acknowledge that the tiles in the downstairs 
toilet werent. Mr T says he apologises for including this in his claim and says it was an 
innocent mistake. 
Ive looked at the 2017 claim photos and compared these with the more recent photos taken 
when the damage was inspected. I think its clear that the wall tiles in place now, in the 
downstair toilet, are the same as those in place in 2017.
I asked Aviva to provide the photos taken more recently that it used to compare with the 
hallway photos from 2017. It responded with copies of photos it had from 2017 and the more 
recent claim. I cant see recent photos of the hallway floor in the more recent photos, other 
than one photo of a small section of the hallway floor that forms the boundary with the 
downstairs toilet. This isnt helpful in showing whether the flooring was replaced after the 
2017 claim. However, the assessor who inspected the damage reported that neither the 
hallway flooring nor the tiling in the toilet had been repaired/replaced. 
Ive thought carefully about the testimony provided by Mr T and his wife. But the records 
show no work was carried out by the contractor appointed by Aviva in 2017. This is at odds 
with what Mr T and his wife told Aviva. Mr T hasnt provided any evidence to show the 
flooring was replaced in the hallway. 
Based on this evidence Im more persuaded by Avivas position that a payment was made to 
Mr T in 2017 to cover the cost of repairs to the damaged flooring and tiling. But the repairs 
werent carried out. This means that Mr Ts more recent claim included some of the same 
areas of damage already claimed for in 2017 that he hadnt had repaired. Although Mr T 
says this was a mistake. I think its fair that Aviva expects him to provide accurate 
information and not make a claim for repairs hed already received payment for. 
Under the heading, General Conditions, in section four of Mr Ts policy terms and 
conditions it says:
4. Fraud
If your claim is at all dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay you anything under this policy 
or return any money you have paid. We may also cancel your policy immediately and 
backdate the cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action 
against you.
Based on this evidence Im satisfied that Aviva treated Mr T fairly. It followed its policy terms 
when declining his claim, and cancelling his policy backdated to the date of his claim. So, I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman