DRN-3220070
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC would not allow him to apply for a loan.
What happened
Mr M says he wished to apply to Barclays for a loan in order to consolidate his credit card 
debts. He says the interest rate would have been lower on any loan. Mr M says Barclays 
refused to allow him to apply for a loan despite him being a customer for over 50 years.
Barclays says Mr M is not entitled to apply for a loan and it doesnt provide loans in these 
circumstances. It says Mr M should speak to the credit card company if he is in financial 
difficulties.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays had followed its process for providing loans and was not obliged to provide 
a loan.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says Barclays has a fundamental duty to at least consider 
a loan application. He would like to apply for a loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate his frustration in these 
circumstances. But I make clear to Mr M that we are not Barclays regulator and so its not 
our role to direct it to, as in this case, offer or consider a loan. And its not our role to direct 
Barclays in how it runs its business. Im satisfied that its up to Barclays when exercising its 
commercial judgement to decide to whom it offers a loan and in what circumstances it will 
consider an application.
So, it follows that I dont think Barclays has made a mistake or acted unfairly by telling Mr M 
that it will not consider a loan application from him. I also think its up to Barclays to decide 
upon such matters for the reasons I have explained, and do not think it has a duty to 
consider a loan as Mr M suggests.
Overall, I cant fairly order Barclays to consider a loan application from Mr M. And I dont 
think it matters how long Mr M has been a Barclays customer, as overall its up to Barclays 
to decide upon such matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman