DRN-2626583
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the reduction of the interest rate on his Help to Buy ISA he has 
with Santander UK Plc (Santander). Hes unhappy about the way it was reduced, the extent 
to which it was reduced, and Santanders failure to explain why it was reduced.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint. My focus on the crux of the issue 
isnt meant as a discourtesy to him but reflects the quick and informal service we provide. 
Id like to reassure him Ive read and considered everything in its entirety.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator and its not my role to punish 
businesses or impose sanctions for mistakes. My role is to consider the specific 
complaint before me and decide a fair outcome. This includes considering the impact 
on the consumer if I decide the business has done something wrong. 
The terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ss account allow Santander to make 
changes to the interest rate offered, provided notice is given. The Meaning of words 
section describes an ISA as a non-payment account. So, the required notice period 
for Mr Ss account is 14 days. The terms provide for several situations under which 
Santander can alter the interest rate. They dont say it will provide a reason for the 
change, but that it can change the interest rate in response to these situations. 
Santander says it made a mistake in its notice of variation letter dated 20 April 2020 
by citing the current interest rate on Mr Ss account as 4.00% when in fact it was 
4.25%. Its accepted the letter mentioned the correct new interest rate of 2.75%. Mr S 
says the discrepancy with the current rate makes this and the subsequent notice  
and the corresponding interest changes  invalid. But I dont think it does. The letter 
is personally addressed to Mr S and states the name of the account the notification 
relates to. It is the account that Mr S holds. I agree theres a typographical error, but I 
consider the letter contains enough personal information to put Mr S on notice the 
interest rate on his ISA would fall on 22 May 2020. 
I acknowledge Santander didnt send a revised notice of variation once the error was 
highlighted to it. But I can see it confirmed the correct current as well as the new 
interest rate to Mr S in its final response dated 15 May. I accept it might not have 
been in the format Mr S was expecting, but Im satisfied he was provided with a 
written confirmation. 
As I consider the letter dated 20 April was sufficient to put Mr S on notice, I dont 
think its unreasonable or unfair Santander didnt provide a further 14 days notice 
starting from its correspondence dated 15 May. Im mindful Mr S still had seven days 
to review his options before the rate change came into effect. Im also satisfied 
Santander gave Mr S the required notice before further reducing the interest rate to 
0.75%. 
Mr S has questioned Santanders explanation the change in the interest rate on his 
account was due to the change in the Bank of Englands base rate. He argues the 
change is disproportionate and says other banks have continued to offer higher 
rates. I acknowledge Mr Ss frustrations and appreciate the interest lost as a result of 
a rate change from 4.25% to 0.75% will have had an impact, especially given the 
purpose of this account. But in making decisions about its interest rate offering, 
Santander exercised its legitimate commercial judgement. This isnt something wed 
generally interfere with.
If it helps to provide more context, I note during a phone call Santander told Mr S the 
change in the Bank of England base rate was only one factor in the review of its 
interest rate offering. The notification letters also refer to a challenging market 
environment. In my experience, changes to the economic environment  not in the 
least an ongoing pandemic  can affect financial businesses in different ways. 
Depending on its operating model, risk exposure, and longer-term views, the position 
each business starts from when responding to changing conditions can also differ. 
Ultimately, each business will exercise its own commercial judgement in making 
difficult decisions like this. 
Having considered the available information, Im not persuaded Santander breached 
its terms and conditions in changing the interest rate on Mr Ss account. It provided 
the required notice. And although I appreciate Mr S would like it to, I dont consider 
Santander is obliged to inform him of the specific challenges faced by it when making 
decisions like reducing the interest rate.
Mr S is also unhappy with Santanders handling of his complaint. In particular, he 
complains it didnt provide a substantive reply to his further queries and refused to 
set up a separate complaint about the second interest rate change. Complaint 
handling, of itself, isnt something we investigate as it isnt a regulated activity. But Id 
explain while I appreciate Mr S found Santanders final response unclear, strictly 
speaking theres no requirement for a business to send a further response once it 
has sent its final response and provided referral rights to our service. Regarding 
Santanders refusal to set up a further complaint, it seems it considered Mr Ss 
further concerns as an extension of the initial complaint. Businesses are generally 
given eight weeks to investigate a complaint and if a final response isnt sent in that 
time, referral rights should be given to our service. Mr S contacted us as soon as 
Santander told him it would add notes to the initial complaint and referred the matter 
to us, as was his right. And our service has considered his complaint about both 
interest rate reductions.
For these reasons although I understand Mr Ss frustrations, Im not persuaded Santander, 
in the particular circumstances of this case, has treated him unfairly. Accordingly, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2021. 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman