DRN-3028624
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc declined his request for additional borrowing alongside 
his mortgage.  
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with TSB, which was taken out in 2016. When it was first opened the 
term of the mortgage was 40 years and it had a fixed rate of interest until April 2018.
Around October 2019 Mr S approached TSB to borrow some additional money. He has said 
that the money would be used for home improvements and partial debt consolidation. He 
has said TSB also recommended that he review his main mortgage  as his fixed interest 
rate deal had ended over a year earlier and he was currently paying TSBs standard variable 
rate (SVR).
The application for a new interest rate was looked at first. TSB agreed a new five-year fixed 
interest rate on Mr Ss existing mortgage. TSB has provided evidence to show that the 
mortgage, and amendment, were actually outside of its lending criteria and were considered 
unaffordable. But as the fixed interest rate applied for meant Mr S would be paying less 
interest, and reduced his monthly repayments, the new interest rate deal was approved, as 
an exception to these criteria.
Mr S then applied for additional borrowing. TSB declined the application as it was not 
considered affordable under its lending criteria.
Mr S complained to TSB about this decision. He said he didnt think the lending decision was 
fair and asked for an explanation why, based on his circumstances, it fell outside of TSBs 
lending criteria.
TSB said it stood by its lending decision and didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr S asked our service to consider his complaint as he remained unhappy with the lending 
decision. He was also unhappy with TSBs response to his complaint  that it hadnt 
answered his specific questions in relation to why the application fell outside of its lending 
criteria. He also said he was unhappy that the rate switch, which he said was TSBs idea and 
had tied him to a new product, had been allowed to go ahead if the additional borrowing was 
not going to be granted.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She didnt think TSB had done anything 
wrong when declining the application for additional borrowing. And she noted that Mr S was 
free to submit a new application  as his circumstances could now be different and 
acceptable to TSB. She also thought TSB didnt have to provide Mr S with any further 
explanation for its decision to decline the original application, as its lending criteria is 
commercially sensitive. However, she did think TSB had done something wrong when the 
new fixed rate was approved  as it hadnt made Mr S aware that it was being approved as 
an exception and actually fell outside of its lending policy. So, she felt Mr S hadnt been 
given enough information and said TSB should pay £250 for the upset caused by this. 
TSB agreed to the investigators proposal. But Mr S did not accept her opinion. He didnt 
think the suggested settlement reflected the distress caused to him. As agreement could not 
be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB is entitled to decide its own lending criteria to determine whether it is willing to lend or 
not when considering an application. This is a matter of its commercial judgement. 
Here TSB has explained that Mr S application for a new interest rate in 2019 fell outside of 
its lending criteria at the time. This was because, based on an assessment of his 
circumstances, it thought the mortgage was not affordable, according to its criteria. I havent 
seen anything to suggest TSB applied its lending criteria incorrectly. TSB however decided 
to approve this part of his application, outside of its usual criteria, as the new rate was 
actually going to reduce Mr Ss monthly repayments. And this would put him in a better 
position. I think TSB has treated Mr S fairly when taking this decision.
TSB has gone on to explain that the application for further borrowing again fell outside of its 
lending criteria, as it wasnt deemed affordable. And that is why this application was rejected. 
I know Mr C doesnt agree with this and feels he could afford the additional borrowing and 
associated repayments. But again, TSB is entitled to decide its own lending criteria, and 
determine if it is willing to lend or not. And from what Ive seen TSB has applied this policy to 
Mr Ss application fairly, in line with how it usually considers applications. And I dont have 
any grounds on which to say TSB shouldve disregarded these lending criteria here.
As the investigator noted, Mr S is able to apply again if he still wishes to borrow additional 
funds. And Id expect TSB to consider any new application based on his circumstances 
when that application is received and use its up to date lending policy. But TSB isnt under 
an obligation to lend, if it deems the application unacceptable. Just as it wasnt at the point 
the initial application was made. So, with all of this in mind, I dont think TSB did anything 
wrong by declining Mr Ss application.
Mr S is unhappy that TSB has not addressed his questions around why his application did 
not meet its lending criteria. And I understand why hed like to know specifics of what 
resulted in the application being declined. But TSBs lending criteria is commercially 
sensitive. And I cant reasonably require it to share detailed information about this when it 
decides not to lend  as that would leave its policies open to manipulation. So, while I know 
Mr S was disappointed with the answer he received from TSB, and its explanation, I dont 
think it needed to provide any further information.
As Ive mentioned the application for the new interest rate was completed before the request 
for further borrowing was considered. And Ive seen evidence this is because TSB required 
them to be assessed separately. 
The application for the new rate was approved outside of TSBs usual criteria because, while 
it failed TSBs affordability assessment, it was considered to be to Mr S benefit, as it 
reduced the amount of interest he was paying and his monthly repayments. Given Mr S was 
also applying for additional borrowing, which would need an affordability assessment, I think 
it wouldve been appropriate for TSB to have explained to Mr S that his application in relation 
to what he already owed had actually failed an affordability assessment. As that information 
wouldve been particularly relevant given he was then looking to borrow more money. But 
from what Ive seen this wasnt explained or made clear to Mr S. And I think this was an error by TSB.
The new interest rate deal meant Mr S would need to pay an early repayment charge, if he 
chose to repay the mortgage in full before that deal ended  as confirmed in the illustration 
TSB issued to Mr S before the deal was put in place. But I dont think hed have acted 
differently even if TSB had provided more details of its position on his application for a new 
rate. 
Mr S has said that reviewing his existing borrowing was not something he was particularly 
concerned with when contacting TSB. But agreeing the new rate reduced his mortgage 
repayments by approximately £60 per month, giving him a tangible saving. Although Mr S 
wanted to borrow additional money, and his initial preference was that this be from TSB, this 
wasnt ever guaranteed. And he wasnt prevented from borrowing money from elsewhere. 
There wouldve also been significant cost involved in taking financial advice and potentially 
re-mortgaging Mr Ss existing borrowing to another lender, as well as this involving a lot of 
work and time. 
So, taking everything into account, I think it wouldve been better for TSB to have explained 
more about its assessment of the application for a new rate. And this wouldve potentially 
indicated to Mr S that borrowing more money from TSB might not have been possible. And if 
it had done this, the subsequent decision not to lend wouldnt have come as such a surprise. 
But even if TSB had explained this, I think Mr S would still have taken the new fixed interest 
rate  to benefit from the saving this provided  but the upset he was then caused by not 
being able to borrow more wouldve been lessened.
Our investigator recommended that TSB pay Mr S £250 for the unnecessary upset caused 
by it not sharing this information  which TSB agreed to pay. And taking everything into 
account, I think that is fair. 
I know Mr S has said he doesnt think this goes far enough and has mentioned not being 
able to complete renovations to his property as a result of the application being declined and 
therefore having to find alternative accommodation, at an additional cost. But TSB was never 
under any obligation to lend to him. And I dont think it did anything wrong by declining the 
application. So, I dont think TSB has caused these costs to be incurred and cant 
reasonably be held responsible for them.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right I order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr S £250.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Ben StokerOmbudsman