DRN-4132914
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British
Gas) under his home care policy following a boiler break-down.
What happened
In December 2022, the boiler at Mr Hs home failed and he was left without heating and hot
water for nearly a week during a period of very cold weather. Mr H is vulnerable due to age
and health conditions. Mr H promptly reported the issue and British Gas said that an
engineer would attend but failed to keep to the appointment. Six days after the boiler failure,
an engineer did attend and left a card. Following further contact by Mr H, an engineer
attended later that day and managed to get the boiler working, however Mr H said that it was
making a low humming noise following the repair. Mr H was looking for substantial
compensation or a new boiler supplied for free, as he felt that his life had been placed in
danger by the delays. British Gas offered compensation of £30, then £50 and finally £200.
Mr H was unhappy with the offer of compensation and referred his complaint to this service.
The investigator noted that it had taken British Gas six days to repair the boiler. He also
noted that British Gas had reimbursed Mr H for heaters and that Mr H had used a kettle to
warm up some water and that this would have caused inconvenience for Mr H. In all the
circumstances however, he thought that British Gas offer of £200 in compensation was fair
and reasonable. Whilst Mr H said his life had been placed in danger. The investigator said
that unfortunately, the service didnt take into consideration potential consequences.
Mr H remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter was referred
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In April 2023, I issued a 
provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to consider is whether, in the light of British Gas acknowledged 
service failures, its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. On a provisional basis, I 
dont consider that it was entirely fair, and Ill explain why.
In reaching this provisional conclusion, Ive also considered the parties submissions. Mr H
explained the background. He said that hed contacted British Gas on a Friday morning in
mid-December 2022 to report that his heating and hot water had failed and that he had no
other form of heating. The outside temperature was -5c and he was quite ill. He informed
British Gas that he was vulnerable due to age and many health conditions. He telephoned
again later that day as no-one had come. He was told it would be Saturday morning. He
telephoned again on Saturday morning and was told an engineer would be there in the
afternoon. He again telephoned in the afternoon and was told someone would be there in
the evening. He called again later that evening, but no-one answered. When he telephoned
again and said that he was freezing cold and had no-one to go to, he was told there was
nothing British Gas could do. The earliest appointment would be on Thursday.
On the Thursday, Mr H said that hed tested his doorbell and left the kitchen light on and the
door open, yet all he got was a card through the door. Mr H contacted British Gas yet again
and was told that British Gas would try to get someone out, but it couldnt promise this.
Eventually some hours later, an engineer did arrive and got the system working, but since
then it has made a humming noise.
Mr H thought that due to his vulnerabilities, the British Gas response should have occurred
within 24 hours as promised in its initial response. He considered that the British Gas
compensation offers were insulting and offensive. Hed been forced to stay in one room,
wrapped up in the same clothes for four days with no hot water or any form of heating and
had fond cooking difficult due to the cold. Over the weekend in question, there had been
snow and the inside of his windows had ice forming inside. Mr H said that hed only obtained
his own heaters 10 days after the incident, so far too late to make any difference to the
issue I am raising as the weather had improved and my central heating was working.
In short, Mr H said his health issues were exacerbated by the extreme cold and no heating
for 4 days at the coldest time of the year. He considered that hed been deceived by the
British Gas call centre many times as to promised visits, plus no mention of the availability of
fan heaters until some days after the incident. Finally, he said that from reading the services
case studies, compensation of £5,000 better fitted the category of case.
Turning to what British Gas have said about the matter, it apologised that Mr H had reason
to complain. It accepted that as soon as Mr H had contacted it for assistance, hed stated
that he was vulnerable. It said that the earliest appointment would normally have been in
early January 2023, however as Mr H was vulnerable, it was able to find an appointment the
day after Mr H reported the incident. It said that Regrettably, the system didn't record the
appointment It recognised that its agents should have made Mr H aware of this when he
contacted British Gas again and they should have seen if an earlier appointment could be
booked. It noted that when Mr H called British Gas after the weekend that the agent was
able to bring a visit forward from early January 2023 to six days after the incident.
British Gas also confirmed that when Mr H spoke to British Gas a few days after his heating
had failed, he was told during this conversation that he could purchase a heater and have
the cost reimbursed. Hed then submitted a receipt for two fan heaters, and these were duly
reimbursed. Following the repair, British Gas couldnt see that any further breakdown
appointment had been raised by Mr H regarding the humming noise.
Having carefully considered the relevant information and submissions, Ive provisionally
concluded that £200 doesnt sufficiently compensate Mr H for the stress, discomfort and
inconvenience suffered in December 2022. Again, on a provisional basis, I consider that the
compensation figure should be increased to the sum of £450. I appreciate that Mr H
considers that the figure should be much higher, however Im likely to find that this figure is
in line with the services sanctions guidance as to fair and reasonable compensation for such
circumstances. Our service doesnt award compensation to penalise insurers or to
compensate for potential consequences.
Ive noted that following the investigators involvement that British Gas agreed that there
were service failures and delays in arranging an engineer to fix the problem. Mr H had made
it clear to British Gas from the outset that he was vulnerable and had set out his serious
health issues. In the circumstances, I consider that being left without heating for six days
was unfair and unreasonable bearing in mind Mr Hs vulnerability. Mr H had been required to
chase the matter on a number of occasions and had received promises of visits which were
not then fulfilled, and this would undoubtedly have caused mounting distress and
inconvenience for Mr H. Its noted that British Gas accepted that its agents had failed to
provide information that should have provided from the start.
Whilst I would agree that an award of £200 might generally be regarded as suitable in suchcircumstances, I dont consider that it was in this specific instance. Although the repeated
service failures occurred over a relatively short timescale of less than a week, Mr Hs serious
health needs had been identified at the outset. The combined impact of these health issues
and the particularly cold weather at the time, meant that the impact of the failures would
have been relatively serious, with higher levels of distress being caused across a few days.
Mr H described how difficult it had been for him over the period hed been left without
heating, and I appreciate that it must have been upsetting and worrying.
On the other hand, I dont consider that an award of £5,000 would be fair and reasonable in
such circumstances, as the impact of the failures could not reasonably be said to have
lasted for a long or sustained period. Once the British Gas engineer was able to attend, it
seems that he promptly resolved the problem, although not entirely to Mr Hs satisfaction. I
also note that British Gas had brought forward an appointment from January 2023 to
recognise the need for urgency here. Nevertheless, it didnt properly communicate the
appointment issues to Mr H, and he was misled several times into believing that he would
receive help imminently. British Gas also failed to advise Mr H from the outset that it would
refund the cost of temporary heaters, which then arrived too late to assist with the problem.
In the circumstances, my provisional conclusion is that £450 represents a more reasonable
sum in compensation, which fairly reflects our guidance on sanctions. I consider that this
recognises the above factors, as well as the fact that Mr H was without heating for almost a
week when he needed it most. Whilst its not reasonable to expect repairs to be carried out
instantly, and heating breakdown is itself a stressful event, I consider that British Gas caused
Mr H additional unnecessary stress here.
In my provisional decision, I asked both British Gas and Mr H if they had any further 
comments or evidence that they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither British Gas nor Mr H provided any further information or evidence following my 
provisional decision. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against British Gas Insurance 
Limited, and require it to pay Mr H compensation in the sum of £450 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman