DRN-3377243
The complaint
Mr P complains that Moorcroft Debt Recovery Limited harassed him in relation to a debt. 
What happened
In June 2021 Moorcroft was instructed to collect a debt from Mr P by a third party business 
(H). Moorcroft called Mr P several times between 24 June 2021 and 1 July 2021. On 1 July 
2021 Moorcroft received contact from H which asked it to stop calling Mr P and contact him 
by email. Moorcroft updated its records. H also advised the account was on hold. 
 
In November 2021 Moorcroft sent Mr P an email. Mr P explained he was unable to open the 
email. H also contacted Moorcroft and the information was posted instead. Mr P has also 
complained that information Moorcroft sent about Covid was out of date. 
Moorcroft sent Mr P a final response on 11 November 2021 but didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly. Over the following weeks, whenever Mr P emailed Moorcroft it sent him an 
automated acknowledgement. Mr Ps responses to those acknowledgment also received 
automated acknowledgements. 
The account passed back to H in December 2021.
Mr P went on to refer his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator though Moorcroft had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr P asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the level of contact between Moorcroft and Mr P, along with the ways it tried to 
get in touch with him, when considering whether it harassed him. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
P but I havent found evidence of harassment. 
Moorcroft was instructed by H to collect a debt on its behalf so Im satisfied it had a 
legitimate reason to try and contact Mr P. 
Moorcroft phoned Mr P several times over a period of around a week after it was instructed 
by H. But H contacted Moorcroft and told it to contact Mr P by email instead. Moorcroft 
followed that instruction and stopped calling Mr P. I havent found evidence of excessive 
attempts to call Mr P before H asked Moorcroft to email him instead.  
When H asked Moorcroft to stop calling Mr P it also advised his account was on hold. So 
collections activity stopped. I havent seen anything that indicates Moorcroft harassed Mr P 
for payment or applied excessive pressure on him. 
In November 2021 Moorcroft sent Mr P an email but he wasnt able to open it. The contents 
were sent in the post instead. In my view, that was a reasonable alternative. Mr P 
complained that the government guidance included wasnt up to date. But Mr P hasnt said 
exactly why he felt the guidance wasnt up to date or how he was affected. And I havent 
been persuaded there are reasonable grounds to say Moorcroft should compensate him for 
the information provided. 
Much of correspondence appears to be between Mr P and Moorcrofts automated email 
acknowledgements. Ive seen the email chains between Mr P and Moorcroft. From 
November 2021 onwards, whenever Mr P emailed Moorcroft he received an automated 
acknowledgement. When Mr P responded to that acknowledgement, he received another. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Im not persuaded the emails he received from Moorcroft 
amount to harassment. Ive looked at all the emails and correspondence between Mr P and 
Moorcroft and havent been persuaded it harassed him for payment.  
H recalled the account in December 2021 and Moorcroft closed its files. Moorcroft confirmed 
this to Mr P by email. Ive carefully reviewed the level and type of contact Moorcroft had with 
Mr P but havent found evidence of harassment. In my view, Moorcroft acted on Hs 
instructions and communicated with Mr P in a fair and reasonable way. As Im satisfied 
Moorcroft dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman