DRN-2627957
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he obtained through a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) was misrepresented to him and was not of satisfactory 
quality. He wants Santander to accept his rejection of the car.
What happened
Our investigator set out in some detail the sequence of events, so I will summarise what 
happened only very briefly here.
Mr S obtained a second-hand car in November 2018, financed through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. Mr S has reported various faults with the car. His main complaint 
is that he wasnt told the car had been involved in an accident and had been poorly repaired.
Since referring the complaint to our service, Mr S has obtained an independent report. 
Following that, our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
that, if Mr S had been aware the car had been involved in an accident, he wouldnt have 
chosen to enter into the finance agreement. She thought Santander should cancel the 
agreement and collect the car, with nothing further for Mr S to pay.
Santander didnt agree and the complaint was passed to me. I largely agreed with our 
investigators conclusions and I set out my reasons in a provisional decision. I explained why 
I thought the car had car been in an accident and been previously repaired when the car was 
supplied to Mr S. I said:
Mr S arranged for an independent inspection of the car and, as this was completed 
by an independent expert, I will place reliance on its conclusions.
Regarding Mr Ss complaint that the car had been involved in an accident, the report 
says:
We then inspected the vehicles bodywork where we can confirm the vehicle as a 
non-OEM* front bumper fitted. There are also parking sensors fitted to the front 
bumper, although the vehicle is not equipped with a parking sensor system, the front 
bumper is also misaligned, and the paint has not been blended to match the outer 
wings.
The offside front inner wheel arch is also showing evident signs of paint peeling, the 
o/s headlight bracket has also been poorly repaired, which would further suggest the 
vehicle has had a previous repair.
* Original equipment manufacturer
And the report concluded that:
We can only confirm the incorrect front bumper being fitted was present since 
purchase
Having carefully considered the reports conclusions, I find the car had been in an 
accident before it was supplied to Mr S and that the repairs, which were carried out 
before the car was supplied to Mr S, were not completed to a satisfactory standard.
I then explained why I thought the car had been misrepresented to Mr S. I said:
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr S. If it was, and if I thought Mr S would not have proceeded 
with the deal if hed been aware of the true facts, then I would think Santander was 
responsible and Id ask it to take some further action.
Both parties agree Mr S was not told the car had been in an accident.
Santander says the supplying garage did not know the car had been in an accident. It 
completed an HPI check which didnt flag that the car had been in an accident.
Santander says there was no obligation on the supplying garage to inspect the car or 
remove any parts to find out if there was any damage. The damage here is that the 
front bumper had been replaced with a bumper that wasnt the original specification 
of the car; that the bumper had not been aligned properly; and that the paint had not 
been blended to match the wings. So there was no need to remove any parts to find 
this damage. And, from what the independent report says, I think it reasonable that 
an expert would have easily identified this damage. The supplying garage was the 
expert here. I dont agree with Santander that this was something for Mr S to check 
and discover before he obtained the car. I agree with our investigator that the 
supplying garage should have reasonably realised the car had been poorly repaired. 
And that the nature of those repairs suggested the car may have been involved in an 
accident.
It follows that the supplying garage should have brought this to Mr Ss attention. And 
Ive already found that it didnt. So I think it did misrepresent the car.
I now need to think about whether the failure to tell Mr S that the car had been poorly 
repaired and may have been in an accident would have made a difference to him. In 
other words, whether I think Mr S would have gone ahead with the conditional sale 
agreement.
Ive considered this very carefully. Mr S has experienced several other problems with 
the car  unconnected to the accident damage  which has led him to conclude that 
he wouldnt have obtained the car if hed known its full history. Its difficult for me to 
say with certainty whether, if he hadnt experienced these mechanical faults, whether 
hed have been comfortable obtaining a car that had been involved in an accident. 
Theres nothing to suggest that an accident causing cosmetic damage would have 
troubled him  if that damage had been satisfactorily repaired.
But I agree with out investigators conclusions. The price Mr S paid for the car was 
above the average retail price  he effectively paid a premium. I dont think he would 
reasonably have wanted to go ahead with the conditional sale agreement at that 
price, had he known the car had been in an accident and had been poorly repaired.
So I think that, if the supplying garage had told Mr S about the poor repairs, this 
would have made a difference to him and he wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
conditional sale agreement.I then thought about what Santander needed to do to put things right. I said:
It doesnt automatically follow that Santander should accept Mr Ss rejection of the 
car. It may be that repair is a more proportionate remedy. But Ive taken into account 
the price that Mr S paid for the car. And I think that, even if the poor repairs were 
corrected, the cars history is not reflected in the price he paid for it. So, after careful 
consideration, I think its fair that Santander accept Mr Ss rejection of the car with 
nothing further to pay.
In circumstances like this, it would be usual for the consumer to receive a refund of 
their deposit. But the agreement shows that Mr S did not pay a deposit.
Mr S told us hes not really driven the car since January 2020. Hes provided a photo 
of the odometer which shows hes driven the car less than 5,000 miles since he 
obtained it in November 2018, and less than 1,000 miles since January 2020. So Ive 
considered whether Santander should refund any of the monthly payments Mr S has 
made to reflect the limited use hes had of the car.
Mr S says hes not driven the car because its not safe. As noted earlier, hes 
experienced some mechanical faults with the car, and I think it is these which have 
made the car undriveable. Theres nothing to suggest the mechanical faults have 
been caused by the previous accident or the previous repairs. The independent 
report concludes that the mechanical faults are due to wear and tear. And, whilst I 
accept Mr S may have felt nervous about driving a car that had previously been in an 
accident, Im not persuaded that it was a misaligned bumper that made him feel the 
car was unsafe. And the findings of the independent report say that the damage was 
cosmetic.
For those reasons, I dont find Santander is obliged to refund any of the monthly 
payments.
Mr S paid for the cost of an independent report and I think Santander should refund 
this on receipt of evidence of the cost paid.
Ive also considered whether Santander should compensate Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused. Mr S has told us about the impact this has had on 
him and Im sorry for the situation in which he finds himself. But I think the main 
impact has been due to the mechanical faults with the car, and not because of the 
cosmetic damage. So I dont find it would be fair for Santander to compensate Mr S 
for the distress and inconvenience.
I gave both parties a final opportunity to provide and new evidence or comments. 
Mr S said, in summary, that:
The car was in the garage for six weeks when the water pump needed repair. It was off the 
road for another six weeks when the gear box failed. And off the road for a further 12 weeks 
when Santander started its investigation. He then decided not to drive the car because he 
didnt think it was safe to drive.
The car will still have cost him £14,000 and hell have nothing to show for it. And hes ended 
up in debt. 
Santander asked for extra time to respond which we agreed. But it hasnt provided any 
additional comment or evidence within the extended timescale. As my provisional decision was not materially different to our investigators conclusions, I thought it was in the best 
interests of both parties to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not unsympathetic to the position in which Mr S finds himself. But, as I noted in my 
provisional decision, Ive not seen evidence to show that the mechanical problems he 
encountered with the car  and which led to it being off the road  were directly related to the 
earlier accident and poor repairs. So whilst Mr S wasnt able to drive the car, I dont find this 
was because the car had been misrepresented to him; or that it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. So, after careful reconsideration, my conclusion remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) plc should:
1. Cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further for Mr S to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
3. Record the finance agreement as settled on Mr Ss credit file or remove it altogether.
3. Refund Mr S the cost he paid for the independent report, on receipt of evidence from him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman