DRN-3728182
The complaint
C, a limited company, has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic.
A representative has brought the complaint on Cs behalf but for simplicity I shall just refer to 
C throughout.
What happened
C held a business interruption insurance policy with Ageas. It claimed on the policy for its 
business interruption losses caused by Covid-19 after it was required to close its premises in 
March 2020 due to lockdown restrictions. 
Initially Ageas accepted that thered been a case of Covid-19 at the premises. It offered to 
consider a claim for 72 hours business interruption on the basis it would take that long for C 
to arrange a deep clean of its premises. It later withdrew that offer. It said C had closed its 
office because of government restrictions and not as a result of a case or cases of Covid-19 
at the premises.
C referred its complaint to our service. Our Investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
C asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic had an impact on Cs business. But I dont intend to 
uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Cs claim.
The most relevant part of Cs policy covers loss as a result of:
i any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or attributable 
to food or drink supplied from the Premises
ii any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Notifiable Disease (as defined below).
The policy defines Notifiable Disease as:
 illness sustained by any person caused by any person resulting from:
i) food or drink poisoning
ii) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
competent Local Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the loss to have been the result of a 
case of the Notifiable Disease occurring at the premises. Covid-19 is a Notifiable Disease, 
as defined in the policy. As with any insurance claim, its for the claimant to demonstrate that 
an event covered by the policy has happened. So, its for C to show that there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises at the relevant time.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that its suffered a loss which its policy covers.
C says that two of its employees had Covid-19 in March 2020. The first employee returned 
from a holiday abroad on 8 March and returned to work on 9 March. She became unwell on 
10 March and stayed home on 11 March. She went into work the next day but felt ill again on 
13 March. C said she didnt recover until the end of March.
This employee described her symptoms as chesty cough and head bunged up. She rang a 
government health service helpline and was told to assume she had Covid-19.
The second employee felt unwell while in the office on 19 March and went home. On 21 
March he described himself as having flu-like symptoms and Dry throat and coughing 
occasionally.
I need to consider whether C has shown that these employees more likely than not had 
Covid-19 as opposed to another illness. I am aware that the NHS was taking a cautionary 
approach and advised many people who ultimately didnt have Covid-19 to self-isolate.
I appreciate that the two employees had some symptoms of Covid-19. However they are 
also symptoms of other illnesses - such as flu. Neither employee had other symptoms of 
Covid-19 that are more specific to that disease. So it isnt clear that they most likely had 
Covid-19 rather than some other illness. 
It is not a requirement of the policy that the individuals concerned have to show certain 
symptoms. But it is necessary for C to demonstrate that it is most likely there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises. And the evidence available doesnt convince me 
that C has demonstrated this. So, I cant say that Ageas treated C unfairly in not meeting its 
claim.
Having considered the rest of the policy I do not think there is an area of cover that means 
Ageas should have met Cs claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Ageas to pay its claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman