DRN-3557427
The complaint
Mrs D complains through her representative that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) lent 
her money on a high cost loan which she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Mrs D with a loan on 28 November 2018, of £1,800 repayable over 18 
months in monthly instalments of around £164. She complained to Everyday that the loan 
was unaffordable. She repaid the loan by 1 June 2020.
Everyday said that it had carried out all the normal verification checks, including obtaining 
payslips, recent bank statements and carrying out a credit check. It said that as the loan was 
for consolidation of Mrs Ds existing loans, the new loan was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that she didnt think 
Everyday shouldve offered this loan to Mrs D as it was evident from the checks carried out 
that she wouldnt have been able to meet the repayments. 
Everyday disagreed, pointing out that whilst acknowledging that Mrs D was using payday 
loans, this loan was to be used to clear those loans.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs D 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs D would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ds ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs D undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs D. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
According to Mrs Ds credit record at the time, she had four active payday loans, three 
unsecured loans, a credit card, and a hire purchase (HP) loan. I calculate her monthly credit 
commitments amounted to £774, out of an assessed income of about £1,468. This was 
before the new loan instalment was added in, increasing the credit commitments to £938. 
This would have meant about 64% of her income being spent on credit commitments. I think 
that position would have been unsustainable.
Everyday says that the payday loans were to be paid off by the loan. I note that but also note 
that Everyday released the whole of the loan advance to Mrs D, instead of paying off the 
loans (which I think it could easily have done) before releasing the balance. This means in 
my view that Everyday took the risk that Mrs D wouldnt repay all or some of the loans. I 
dont have any information as to whether she did in fact pay off the loans. But even if all the 
payday loans were paid off, with the new loan instalment she would still have been paying 
around 47% of her income on credit commitments. Ive discounted a loan where a single 
payment was due. Again that would be likely to make the loan unaffordable. 
Everyday assessed Mrs Ds monthly disposable income at about £188. But I assume this 
was on the basis that the payday loans would be paid off. But as Ive noted Everyday didnt 
make sure this was done. I think, with such a high level of Mrs Ds income being used for her 
credit commitments, this figure, even if the payday loans were paid off, it wasnt sufficient for 
Mrs D to afford the loan repayments. So, although I think Everyday did carry out 
proportionate checks, they didnt show the loan to be affordable. So I dont think that 
Everyday made a fair lending decision.Putting things right
Miss D has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mrs D as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mrs D has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Miss Ds 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one..
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman