DRN-4307154
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that TSB Bank plc havent reimbursed him as much money as they should.
What happened
Approximately twenty years ago, Mr W made a reimbursement claim against TSB but wasnt 
happy with the result. 
In April 2023, Mr W received a reimbursement cheque from TSB which Mr W believed 
related to his claim 20 years earlier. But Mr W didnt feel that TSB had reimbursed him 
enough money regarding that claim, so he contacted them about it. This resulted in Mr W 
receiving a second cheque from TSB for a larger amount of money. But Mr W still didnt feel 
that this further reimbursement amount was correct, and so he raised a complaint.
TSB responded to Mr W and explained that the reimbursements were for interest that had 
been incorrectly charged in 2013, and that the two cheques related to the two different TSB 
accounts Mr W had held at that time. TSB also confirmed that the reimbursements included 
additional interest calculated from 2013 to the date of reimbursement, and that they were 
satisfied that the two calculations  and the corresponding cheques  were correct. Mr W 
wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that TSB had calculated the 
reimbursements correctly and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr W has made reference to a claim he made to 
TSB approximately 20 years ago. And Mr W has indicated that he believes that the 
reimbursements hed received from TSB relate to this two-decade old claim.
I can confirm to Mr W that this isnt the case. Rather, the reimbursement cheques that hes 
received are in relation to events that took place in 2013. And Mr W has received two 
cheques from TSB because he held two accounts with them at that time.
Specifically, TSB have explained that Mr Ws TSB credit card fell into arrears in March 2013. 
TSB agreed a repayment plan with Mr W at that time to bring the account out of arrears. And 
because Mr Ws credit account was in a repayment plan, no interest should have been 
incurred on the account.
But after a recent historical review of Mr Ws old accounts, TSB noticed that they did charge 
interest on the credit account while the repayment plan was in place in 2013. And they also 
applied an overlimit charge to Mr Ws account when the reason his account went overlimit 
was because of the interest they had incorrectly applied to the account.
Because of this, TSB tallied up the total interest and the overlimit charge that fairly shouldnt 
have been incurred on the account in 2013, and this combined amount came to £303.06. 
TSB then applied 8% interest on that amount from 2013 until the date of reimbursement in 
April 2023, which increased the total amount to £483.69  which is the amount of one of the 
cheques they sent to Mr W.
TSB also noticed that in 2013 they had deducted funds from Mr Ws current account to cover 
his credit account payments, which could have resulted in Mr Ws current account becoming 
overdrawn and incurring interest. And TSB calculated that they needed to reimburse £86.22 
to Mr W in relation to his current account, to which they then applied 8% interest until the 
date of reimbursement in April 2023, and which took the reimbursement for the current 
account to £141.56  the amount of the other cheque that they sent to Mr W.
Ive reviewed TSBs calculations, and Im satisfied that theyre correct. This includes the 
application of 8% interest to date, which is what this service would generally instruct a 
reimbursing business to include. As such, Im satisfied that TSB have fairly reimbursed Mr W 
for the incorrect interest and charges he incurred in 2013 on both of his accounts. And I 
hope Ive been able to clarify exactly what the two reimbursement cheques relate to  which 
to reiterate, wasnt anything to do with a claim that Mr W made approximately 20 years ago.
Finally, I must also explain that Im unable to consider any of the events that took place, 
either 20 years ago, or in 2013. This is because the rules by which this service must abide, 
as per the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook, include that this service cant consider events that took place over six years ago. 
And this means that I can only consider whether I feel that TSB have calculated their 
reimbursements fairly  which as explained above, Im satisfied that they have.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint against TSB or instructing them to 
take any further or alternative action here. I hope that Mr W will understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman