DRN-3652465
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined his claim on 
his property insurance policy following a storm.
What happened
Mr M had a commercial property insurance policy for a property he owns and rents out. In 
September 2021 he made a claim after a pitched tiled roof and two flat roofs at the property 
were damaged following a storm. This led to water ingress into the property. 
RSA investigated and accepted the claim for the internal damage. However it didnt agree 
the damage to the roofs had been caused by the storm. Instead it said they were past their 
useful life and the damage was due to wear and tear. However it offered Mr M £1,000 
towards the repairs.
Mr M was unhappy with this as he disagreed the damage was due to wear and tear. He said 
the roof had been well maintained and the tiled roof was made of reclaimed material so 
looks in less of a good condition than it is. He made a complaint but RSA didnt uphold it. So 
he brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she wasnt persuaded that the storm was the main cause of the damage and the need 
for the extensive repairs Mr M had arranged, so thought RSA had acted fairly by declining 
the claim. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
There is no dispute that there was a storm around the time of the damage and that the 
storm led to the water ingress at the property. However in order to say that the claim 
should be covered under the policy, and therefore that RSA acted unfairly, Id need to be 
persuaded that the storm was the main cause of the damage. And that it wasnt just 
merely highlighting, and worsening, pre-existing damage.
In order to determine this, we rely on reports from experts who have viewed the damage. 
Mr M has provided a report from the company that replaced the roofs and RSA has 
provided a report from its loss adjuster. 
RSAs report is comprehensive, includes numerous photos and comments on the likely 
cause of the damage. Whereas Mr Ms report is brief and while it says the damage was 
caused by the storm offers no commentary about why the extent of the repairs is 
necessary or the condition of the roof before the storm. So I consider RSAs report more 
persuasive.
Mr M has said that tiles from the pitched roof were knocked out of place by the storm and 
fell onto the flat roofs which caused the damaged. However while Ive seen photos of the 
tiles on the flat roofs, Ive not seen any evidence of the points of penetration of these 
tiles. And even if I had, in order to say RSA had acted unfairly Id need to be persuaded 
that the tiles were knocked off the pitched roof due to the storm and that the level of 
damage they caused had led to the water ingress alone. And Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me of this. 
The tiled roof shows evidence of repairs and damage throughout  above what Id expect 
to see from a roof made of reclaimed materials. And the damage to the flat roofs 
exceeds what Id expect from around five tiles falling on them, if it were in an otherwise 
good condition.
So when I consider the reports alongside the photographs of the damage, I am most 
persuaded that while the damage was highlighted by the storm, it was most likely due to 
underlying issues such as wear and tear. I therefore find that RSA acted fairly by 
declining the claim for the external damage.
RSA has offered Mr M £1,000 towards the cost of the repairs. While it hasnt provided 
any information about why it has made this offer, as Ive concluded it acted fairly by 
declining the claim for storm damage, I wont interfere with its decision to offer this 
contribution.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman