DRN-3149667
The complaint
Mr P complains about the adverse information that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has recorded 
on his credit file in relation to a conditional sale agreement under which a car was supplied 
to him.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr P under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that he 
signed in June 2014. He was experiencing financial difficulties and didnt make all of the 
payments that were due under the agreement between January and May 2016 so a default 
notice was issued to him in April 2016. He didnt take the action required by the default 
notice so the agreement was terminated in May 2016 and the car was repossessed. The car 
was sold at auction and Moneybarn deducted the sale proceeds from the amount that was 
owed by Mr P. Moneybarn agreed to reduce the amount owed by Mr P by £853.84 in May 
2019 and it transferred his debt to a third party in December 2020. I understand that the 
balance of the debt has since been written-off.
Mr P complained to Moneybarn in January 2021 and it responded to his complaint in detail. 
It described what had happened and accepted that the level of customer service that hed 
received had fallen below its expected standards so it agreed to pay him compensation 
totalling £100. It said that it had ceased reporting an outstanding balance to the credit 
reference agencies in January 2020 but the termination of his agreement would remain on 
his credit file for six years. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that hes 
provided medical evidence to Moneybarn and it should remove the adverse information from 
his credit file, apologise to him and pay him compensation. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that there was enough 
information to show that Moneybarn had treated Mr P fairly, reasonably and with due 
forbearance and that, where it admitted fault, it had done enough to put things right. He said 
that Mr Ps account was showing as having been written-off which is what he would have 
expected as it was unlikely that Mr P would have been able to repay the remaining balance  
but he didnt think that Moneybarn had made a mistake by continuing to report the 
agreement as settled with a default. He thought that Moneybarns offer to pay him £100 was 
fair compensation given everything that had happened.
Mr P has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman as he doesnt agree 
with our investigators recommendations and thinks that theyre unacceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr P signed a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in June 2014 and agreed 
to make an initial payment of £581 and then 47 monthly payments of £241.39 for a 
car to be supplied to him;
the account statement thats been provided by Moneybarn shows that he made the 
monthly payments between August 2014 and December 2015 but the direct debit for 
the payment due in January 2016 was returned unpaid, he made a card payment to 
Moneybarn later than month but then didnt make any further payment to Moneybarn;
Moneybarns records show that it tried to contact Mr P multiple times by phone and 
e-mail without success so it issued a default notice to him in April 2016 - as hed not 
made three consecutive monthly payments that were due to it and not responded to 
its attempts to contact him, I consider that it was fair and reasonable for it issue him 
with a default notice at that time;
he didnt take the action required by the default notice so, after further unsuccessful 
attempts to contact Mr P, Moneybarn terminated his agreement  I consider that it 
was fair and reasonable for it to have terminated his agreement at that time;
the car was repossessed and sold at auction and the sale proceeds were applied to 
Mr Ps account;
Mr P has contacted Moneybarn about his financial difficulties and it made two offers 
to reduce the amount that he owed and then reduced it by £853.84 in May 2019;
Mr Ps debt was transferred to a third party in December 2020 and I understand that 
the debt has now been written-off which I consider to be the correct outcome as, 
given his financial difficulties and medical issues, there was no reasonable prospect 
of the debt being repaid  and Moneybarn says that it ceased reporting an 
outstanding balance to the credit reference agencies in January 2020;
I consider that Moneybarn has responded positively and sympathetically to Mr Ps 
financial difficulties - as its required to do;
since the debt was transferred to the third party Mr P has provided information about 
his medical issues  I sympathise with him for those issues but Ive seen no evidence 
to show that Moneybarn knew, or ought reasonably to have known, about his medical 
issued before he provided that information to it  and Im not persuaded that it should 
have taken any different action because of his medical issues; 
Moneybarn is required to provide true and accurate information about a customers 
payment history to the credit reference agencies  it has reported missed payments 
and the default to the credit reference agencies and, as I consider that to be a true 
and accurate record of Mr Ps payment history, Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to require Moneybarn to remove that information from his credit 
file;
the default will have been recorded in about May 2016 and I would expect it to 
remain on Mr Ps credit file for six years so its likely that it will be removed from his 
credit file in about May 2022;
Moneybarn paid £100 to Mr P in March 2021 because it accepted that the customer 
service that it had provided to him had fallen below its expected levels; and
I sympathise with Mr P for his financial difficulties and for the difficulties in securing 
new rented accommodation that hes described because of the information on his 
credit file  but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Moneybarn to pay him any compensation or to take 
any further action in response to his complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman