DRN-1614427
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the estate of Ms S and relates to how Nationwide 
Building Society dealt with a request that it locate the balance of, and provide information 
about, an account that was closed in 2007.  
The estate is represented here by the executor Mr H, who was the late Ms S grandson. 
Rather than write Mr H and the estate and Ms S every time I reference what happened Ill 
refer to the complainant here as Mr H for ease of reading.
What happened
Ms S held a Cashbuilder Book savings account with Nationwide at the date of her death in 
2006. Probate was granted with Mr H appointed as executor. And a solicitor was instructed 
to administer Ms S estate. 
In April 2019 Mr H found a Cashbuilder Book savings account passbook belonging to Ms S 
while clearing out his loft. The passbook showed an outstanding account balance. And Mr H 
said he'd been unaware of the account as hed been informed that Ms S didnt have any 
savings at the time of her death.
Mr H said he informed the solicitor that had dealt with Ms S estate after her death about the 
Cashbuilder Book savings account. But they confirmed they werent aware Ms S had held a 
savings account with Nationwide at the time of her death. So, the funds showing in the 
passbook hadnt been included in the estate or paid to beneficiaries under Ms S will.
As Mr H wanted to gain information about Ms S Cashbuilder Book savings account he 
contacted Nationwide at 9:01 am on 23 April 2019. But Nationwide told Mr H it wasnt able to 
assist him due to the length of time that had passed since Ms S death. It said it no longer 
held records confirming that Mr H had been the executor of Ms S estate. So, it stated he 
would have to visit his local branch with ID and Ms S death certificate.
Mr H said Nationwide told him during that conversation that the account was open and 
active. So he spoke with his local branch to make further enquiries. He said staff there 
informed him the account had been closed in 2007.
At 9:21 am on 23 April 2019 Mr H called Nationwide to raise concerns that hed been given 
conflicting information about the status of Ms S account. He asked it to provide information 
to him about the account. However, Nationwide reiterated that it wasnt able to discuss the 
account with him without seeing proof that he was the executor of Ms S. 
Mr H gave Nationwide the documents it requested in order to prove he was Ms S' executor. 
However, he said Nationwide continued to fail to provide information about Ms S account 
despite numerous requests. And he said staff he spoke with over the telephone and in 
branch about the account were unhelpful and discourteous. As Mr H felt hed been given 
contradictory information about the status of Ms S account he asked the solicitor that had 
been instructed to administer Ms S estate to assist him with his enquiries. But they werent 
able to establish what had happened to the balance of their account. Mr H thought Nationwide wasnt offering him the assistance it could. So he complained. After 
Nationwide investigated Mr Hs complaint it told him, it was only able to provide closing 
information for accounts claimed from 2013 onwards because it only held records on a 
closed account for six years from the date of the account closure. So, as Ms S account was 
closed in 2007, Nationwide said no longer had records dating back to that period. And it said 
this meant it wasnt able to confirm to whom the cheque had been issued. It therefore didn't 
uphold Mr H's complaint about the level of assistance it had provided.
Nationwide also rejected Mr H's complaint about the service he felt he had received from its 
staff. And, having listened to calls made by him, it told him it was satisfied he wasnt told the 
account remained open. It did, however, accept it hadnt logged his complaint correctly and it 
sent him a cheque for £75 to reflect the trouble and upset he was caused by any 
shortcomings in its complaint handling process.
Being dissatisfied with Nationwides response to his complaint Mr H referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr H and Nationwide. But, they didnt 
think Nationwide needed to do anything more here. They explained it wasnt required to 
retain records for longer than six years. And they thought it had acted fairly and reasonably 
in dealing with Mr H. But he disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr H experienced here. Im sure he has suffered some 
upset and inconvenience in dealing with Nationwide and for that Im sorry. However, my role 
is to assess whether I think Nationwide made a mistake, or treated Mr H unfairly, in how it 
dealt with his request that it locate the balance of, and provide information about, Ms S 
account such that it needs to now put things right.  
I can see that Mr H sent submissions in response to our investigators view of his complaint. 
I want to assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and Nationwide have 
sent when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr H has raised as Ive 
focused on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr H wont take that as a 
discourtesy, my approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ill explain at the outset that Ive considered the evidence Mr H provided our service from the 
solicitor that was instructed to administer Ms S estate, which shows they didnt receive any 
funds from the savings account that is the subject of this dispute.  However, for me to arrive 
at the conclusion that Nationwide should pay the balance that is recorded in Ms S passbook 
to the estate, Id need to be satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the corporate 
cheque Nationwide said it sent when the account was closed hadnt been cashed. Nationwide has shown our service reliable evidence to confirm that the account was closed 
in August 2007 with a balance of just over £3700. So, Im satisfied the account was closed at 
the time Nationwide said it was.
Ive seen the Cashbuilder passbook in Ms S name and I can see the last recorded receipt to 
the account was in August 2005. At that time the account balance stood at just over £3600. 
As the closing balance exceeded that sum its clear to me the passbook wasnt updated prior 
to the account closing after Ms S death. This means Im unable to safely conclude that 
because a balance is showing in the passbook it remains outstanding. 
Nationwide said when an account is closed its process would be to  issue a corporate 
cheque for the full account balance. Due to the passage of time it says it isnt able to confirm 
the identity of the cheque beneficiary as it doesnt hold records of accounts that closed over 
six years ago. Its told our service that this is the reason it cant provide any further 
assistance or information to Mr H about the cheque it says it would have sent when the 
account was closed in 2007. 
I appreciate Mr H wants to know who Nationwide issued the cheque to. And I understand 
why he feels it should be able to assist him further with his enquiries about Mrs S account. 
But Im not persuaded that expecting Nationwide to have records from August 2007 is a fair 
or reasonable expectation. Ill explain why.
Nationwide is only required to have six years worth of records. This is typical banking 
industry practice. So, as Ms S account was closed in August 2007, I would only expect 
Nationwide to have retained records of that account until August 2013. With this in mind, it 
would be unfair for me to say that Nationwide should be in a position to have records that 
show who the beneficiary of the cheque was.
Mr H disputes that the cheque Nationwide said it sent was cashed. He said it couldnt have 
been cashed by Ms S  as she died during 2006. And the solicitor that was instructed to deal 
with Ms S estate was unaware she has any savings and, therefore, didnt receive any funds 
from the savings account in question.  
However, Nationwide is able to assert here that the cheque was cashed because its 
procedure is to keep a record of any uncashed corporate cheques  even where they were 
issued more than six years ago. So, if the cheque sent on the closure of Mrs S account 
wasnt cashed, Nationwide said the funds would still show as outstanding on its corporate 
cheque system. Having checked that system, Nationwide said no outstanding balance is 
recorded. This therefore satisfies me that the cheque Nationwide issued in 2007 was 
cashed. And this means I cant fairly conclude that money is owed to Ms S estate. 
Ill turn now to Mr Hs complaint about the way in which Nationwide dealt with his complaint. 
Nationwide has already paid Mr H £75 as a goodwill gesture to recognise the poor service 
he received when making his complaint. I can see that he remains unhappy with this sum. 
It's clear he doesnt think this adequately reflect his experience or the time he spent 
contacting Nationwide to discuss his concerns.  
I should explain that, strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how financial 
businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation 
that governs our service. So, even if I did think Nationwide hadnt handled Mr Hs complaint 
well, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of his concerns or make an award. I cant act 
outside the law. And, in any event, our service cant compensate Mr H if hes received poor 
service. This is because, under our own rules, we cant award compensation to an executor 
of an estate.I appreciate that Mr H feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything he has said. But, as Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably, Im not going to ask it to do anymore here. 
I realise Mr H will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant 
help Mr H any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and the 
estate of Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman