DRN-2155646
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Silver 
packaged bank account.
He says that he was told he had to change his account and had to upgrade to increase his 
credit score. He says that he was suffering from ill health at the time and was not in the right 
mind to agree to the account. 
Mr S says that the member of staff ran through a lot of what if scenarios and says he felt 
pressured into agreeing to the account. Mr S has also said that his command of the English 
language was not too good at the time and didnt understand the member of staff.
What happened
Mr S opened a fee-free Classic account in January 2013. He then upgraded his account to a 
fee-paying Silver account in April 2013.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Ss complaint and he didnt think the account had been 
mis-sold. Mr S disagreed and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint. And having done 
so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr S has given detailed testimony about what he was told in branch, when the account was 
sold to him. He essentially says that he just agreed to the account to avoid increasing his 
heart rate, as the nature of his condition meant he couldnt put any strain on his heart.
Ive carefully considered what Mr S has said, but Lloyds says the account was upgraded 
online. And Mr S has, in our complaint form, also said that the account was upgraded online. 
As such, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr S was somehow pressured into agreeing to a 
packaged account that he didnt want if he upgraded it himself online. If, prior to upgrading, it 
was the case that he had spoken to someone about the account in branch, who encouraged 
him to upgrade, then I think Mr S could simply have not applied for the account if he didnt 
want it.
Overall, I think that Mr S was aware the Silver account was optional and that he didnt have 
to have a fee-paying account if he didnt want one. I say this particularly as he already held a 
fee-free account with Lloyds before his account was upgraded to a Silver account. And he 
said that he later tried to downgrade his account  indicating that he was aware that the 
Silver account was an optional product.
As the sale took place online, I think it was sold on a non-advised basis. This means Lloyds 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to give him important information 
about the account, so that he could decide for himself whether it was worth taking out.
Mr S says he was in no fit state to make an informed decision whether to upgrade his 
account. And he also says that hed been told he had to upgrade his account to improve his 
credit score. However, I can see that Mr S successfully claimed on the Silver account mobile 
phone insurance shortly after hed upgraded. And he made further claims in 2014 and 2016. 
It also seems that Mr S drove a vehicle, so was able to benefit from the breakdown cover 
provided by the account, should he have needed to.
Given these circumstances, Im not persuaded by Mr Ss comments that he was unable to 
make an informed decision about the Silver account and was sold it to improve his credit 
score. Or that he didnt understand what hed agreed to due to his poor command of the 
English language.
On the contrary, I think its more likely that he chose to take out the account online himself 
because he was attracted to the benefits it provided. And as he was able to make a claim on 
the mobile phone insurance so soon after upgrading, he was clearly given some information 
about the account benefits and understood how to go about using them. I appreciate that 
Mr S may not have seen all of the important information about the account during the 
upgrade process. But Ive not seen anything about Mr Ss circumstances that makes me 
think he wouldve been put off from upgrading to the Silver account, had he been provided 
with even more information about it.
Therefore, having considered everything that Mr S and Lloyds have said and provided, I 
dont think the Silver account was mis-sold. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to 
require Lloyds to refund the Silver account fees that Mr S paid to have the account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman