DRN-1503893
 
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr L and Mrs W in 1996, in connection with 
a further advance on their joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr L if he couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr L and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr L and Mrs Ws case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr L and Mrs Ws needs?
Did Halifax give Mr L and Mrs W the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
 
 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
L and Mrs W are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr L and Mrs Ws case and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr L and Mrs W say they dont remember PPI being discussed when they took out their 
further advance, and they didnt know it had been added to their account. They also question 
why only Mr L was covered by the policy, when the borrowing was in joint names.The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr L and Mrs W and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasn't been able to provide much information from the point of sale, which isn't 
surprising given the amount of time that's passed. And it's similar to some other cases I've 
seen. But Halifax's records indicate that a PPI application was made in connection with the 
further advance in 1996, and that the policy was to cover Mr L. It wasn't unusual for only one 
party to a joint loan to be covered by PPI, particularly if that party earned more than the 
other. So I don't think the fact that only Mr L was covered meant the PPI was mis-sold.
Without anything else to support what Mr L and Mrs W have told me, I don't think I can fairly 
and reasonably say that Halifax didn't make them aware of the PPI. On balance, I think it's 
likely that the bank made them aware they had a choice about buying the PPI and they 
decided to take it.
Halifax advised Mr L and Mrs W to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
Mr L was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Mr L says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Ls 
employer sick pay and would've meant Mr L's employer benefits could be used to 
pay for other expenses. So I think Mr L and Mrs W would have had some use for the 
policy despite their existing arrangements.
Mr L wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs W needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
I can't be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr L and Mrs W before they 
agreed to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr L and Mrs W would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr L wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr L and Mrs 
W would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman