DRN-4106177
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt reimbursed him after he 
fell victim to what he says was a scam.
Background
In 2021, Mr P inherited some money. His friend, Mr L, invited him to jointly invest in a 
property overseas. This was someone who, as I understand it, had been known to Mr P for 
over thirty years. Mr P had visited the property in person and on the basis of what he saw, 
he was happy to make the following transfers to Mr L:
£25,000 on 27 July 2021
£20,000 on 30 July 2021
£3,955 on 3 August 2021.
Mr P says that he didnt sign a contract regarding the purchase and doesnt have any 
evidence as to what he agreed. Since making the transfers, Mr L has delayed matters and 
been obstructing. Eventually, Mr P concluded that Mr L had simply taken his money and had 
no intention of following through on their agreement. 
He notified Halifax. It looked into matters but didnt agree to reimburse him. It considered his 
case under the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and concluded 
that this was really a private civil dispute between Mr P and Mr L and so wasnt covered by 
the Code.
Mr P was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She agreed with Halifax that this was a 
private civil dispute and so not covered by the CRM Code. Mr P has also claimed that one of 
the three payments was made without his authority.
Since Mr P disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here under the relevant regulations is that Mr P is liable to any payment 
that he authorised. However, thats not the end of the story. Halifax is a signatory to the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. That Code sets out the circumstances 
under which Halifax should reimburse customers who have fallen victim to scams. However, 
it doesnt cover all scenarios and it specifically excludes what it describes as private civil 
disputes.
In this instance, Halifax has treated this as a private civil dispute, and I dont think its 
unreasonable for it to have done so. When determining whether or not fraud has taken 
place, I have to consider the intentions of the alleged fraudster. I cant know for certain what 
was in the mind of Mr Ps friend at the time he agreed to accept the bank transfers in 
connection with this property purchase. As a result, I have to decide the case based on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, is it more likely than not that Mr Ps friend set out with the 
intention of defrauding him?
Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that there is strong enough evidence to support that he did. 
Mr P has told us that the transfers were connected with the purchase of a rental property 
overseas. I dont know why that transaction didnt conclude and Mr P didnt become the joint-
owner of the property in question. But the fact that he didnt doesnt automatically mean that 
he is the victim of fraud  an arrangement such as this one could collapse for a wide range 
of innocent reasons. 
It's not clear on what terms Mr P agreed to transfer the money to his friend. There was no 
formal paperwork and he didnt sign a contract. As a result, theres very little evidence to 
show that this person went back on their word or didnt act as had been agreed. I know that 
Mr P will be disappointed with my findings on this point, but I agree with Halifax that this 
complaint isnt covered by the CRM Code. If he wants to attempt to recover his money, he 
ought to seek independent legal advice about whether he can bring a claim against Mr L 
directly.
Authorisation
Mr P told our Investigator that one of the three payments wasnt authorised by him but was 
carried out by Mr L without consent. Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Halifax 
generally cant hold Mr P liable for a transaction he didnt authorise. There are exceptions to 
this in the regulations but they dont apply in this case.
Ive therefore considered whether the evidence suggests Mr P authorised this payment. Due 
to the time that lapsed since Mr P made this specific allegation (i.e. that one of the payments 
wasnt authorised) there is limited technical evidence available to help figure out whether the 
evidence supports his claim or not.
All of the payments were made by online banking. Mr P says that he thinks he was observed 
entering his online banking details by Mr L. But it seems far fetched that Mr L couldve simply 
remembered his security credentials in order to make the payment himself. 
Im also mindful of the fact that he told our Investigator both that (a) he didnt authorise the 
third payment and that (b) he didnt authorised the payment of £25,000. However, the 
£25,000 payment appears to have been the first payment. Finally, its noteworthy that when 
he reported what had happened to Halifax in October 2021, he told the call handler at the 
bank that Im so honest and straightforward, I gave my money over  Ive done three 
transactions, one of them I took out of my savings account.
Mr Ps testimony on this point is contradictory and so its difficult to attach a great deal of 
weight to it. Overall, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to show that any of these 
transactions werent authorised by him. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman