DRN-3878104
The complaint
Mr H complained that Lloyds Bank PLC provided unsuitable investment advice in 2012 when 
it recommended Mr H to invest money from a lump sum rather than pay it towards reducing 
his outstanding mortgage balance. 
What happened
Mr H had recently retired and taken a six figure pension lump sum when he met with 
Lloydss adviser. During the course of two meetings in August 2012, Lloyds advised him to 
invest £11,280.00 into a Scottish Widows stocks and shares ISA and £30,720.00 into a 
Personal Investment Plan. 
Following a mortgage review, Mr H complained to Lloyds in September 2021 that he was 
badly advised in 2012 not to repay his mortgage. He said he had been wrongly told that the 
bank would not look to repayment of the mortgage until after his death and that he could 
continue to pay on an interest only basis. 
 
In response, Lloyds said Mr H had left it too late to bring this complaint. It did also say that in 
June 2007 he had borrowed £105,000 on an interest only basis and £38,500 on a repayment 
basis over a 25 year term, due to end in 2032, and that the bank wasnt able to offer an open 
ended mortgage, without a repayment date, in 2012.  
Mr H remained unhappy that the adviser gave him advice in 2012  which was in essence to 
do nothing about my mortgage so he brought his complaint to us. He said that if he had 
known in 2012 that the bank would not allow him to keep making interest only payments on 
his mortgage for life, as he thought hed been told, he would have paid the mortgage in full at 
that time and that he hadnt even considered not doing this until it was suggested by the 
banks adviser.
Based on all the information he had seen, the investigator didnt feel this was a complaint he 
could recommend upholding. He mainly said he didnt doubt Mr Hs version of events and 
agreed the best advice wouldve been to use his lump sum in 2012 to repay at least the 
interest only part of his mortgage. But he said Mr H wasnt under any obligation to accept 
any recommendations given and the records showed everything was discussed. Our 
investigator felt that whether the advice was wrong or right it had been Mr Hs choice not to 
repay the mortgage but to either spend or invest the funds from the lump sum. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He felt that his complaint hadnt been properly 
understood and, with assistance from his current financial adviser, asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Lloyds has now consented to us looking into Mr Hs complaint about what happened in 2012 
when it provided investment advice, I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely in the light of available evidence and the wider circumstances. Where facts arent 
agreed by the parties I must make reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
Im sorry that Mr H feels our investigator didnt properly grasp his complaint. Just to be clear, 
its my understanding that Mr H is saying that had Lloyds not told him he could continue to 
pay the mortgage until death, he would simply have put this lump sum towards paying the 
mortgage rather than investing any of it. Mr H has recently said that although the adviser 
looked at his ability to pay the mortgage, whilst he had the means to pay the monthly 
mortgage instalments, the adviser did not address his ability to pay back the capital at the 
end of the term for the interest only part of the mortgage. He also said his .. mindset at the 
time the investments were made was that the mortgage was dealt with. 
I am approaching this complaint on the basis that Mr H was entitled to expect Lloyds adviser 
to provide him with suitable investment advice taking into account his overall circumstances 
and financial situation and keeping in mind his identified needs and objectives. 
Ive looked carefully at the Customer Information document prepared by the adviser during 
discussions with Mr H (the fact find). Although its not signed by Mr H, as this was 
completed at the point of sale I consider its reasonable for me to rely on the information 
recorded to give me a useful insight into Mr Hs circumstances and what was discussed at 
the time. Mr Hs overall financial situation in August 2012 was recorded as follows: 
monthly income £1,587.00 
committed monthly spending £1,357.00
disposable income £116.80 per month (this allows for a 10% increase in fixed 
expenditure (subject to a minimum of £50)
Mr H was a homeowner  his house was valued at £140,000 and his outstanding 
mortgage, taken out in 2007, was around £139,000. 
£5,000.00 in deposit based savings account
£4,500.00 invested in with-profits bonds 
£107,456.00 (including £100,000 pension lump sum) in a bank account
within five years he planned to spend £20,000.00 on home improvements.
Given what I know about Mr Hs circumstances and financial situation, Ive thought carefully 
about whether Mr H was in a strong enough financial situation to be able to invest further  
and I dont consider that he was.
I say this because Mr H had recently retired from paid work. Although it would be another 
15 years or so before he reached state pensionable age, he mentioned that he was 
receiving treatment for his mental health at the time. So I think the adviser was right to 
concentrate on Mr Hs actual financial situation and make no assumptions about any 
potential future earnings. 
As things stand, my main concern is that the adviser seems not to have thought carefully 
enough about Mr Hs mortgage, especially the interest only part (around £105,000) which he 
would need to repay at the end of the term, and how this impacted on his overall financial 
situation. Ill explain why I say this.
Paying for his home was Mr Hs most significant financial commitment. The fact find 
recorded him as retired and his total net income was his pension. He had almost no equity 
in the property, only limited savings and investments, no particular expectation of any further lump sum and concerns about his health  so there were no obvious ways for Mr H to boost 
his income or savings. As Lloyds itself has highlighted, the mortgage had a redemption date 
in 2032. Mr H therefore needed to consider how he was going to repay the interest only part 
of his mortgage by that date. And Lloyds adviser needed to provide advice with that future 
objective in mind.
The mortgage application completed in 2007 included a loan assessment form in which 
Lloyds confirmed that Mr H held an endowment policy and would receive a pension lump 
sum. It stated that the interest only element of the mortgage would be repaid from these 
sums on retirement, leaving only the repayment part of the loan, which Lloyds described as 
affordable on Mr Hs pension. Mr H told us he went to see the adviser in 2012 with the 
expectation that he would use his pension lump sum to pay his mortgage. That is clearly in 
line with what Lloyds had agreed with Mr H that he would do when arranging the mortgage in 
2007. But that doesnt seem to be reflected in the advisers comments made in 2012.
Mr Hs recollection of his discussions with the adviser regarding his mortgage is disputed in 
part by Lloyds  it effectively said lifetime mortgages werent something it could offer in 2012 
so the adviser wouldnt have suggested this. But it isnt reasonable to expect Mr H to be able 
to recall word for word what was said about his mortgage during discussions with the adviser 
so long ago. So I'm mostly relying on what the point of sale paperwork shows.  
The adviser had a responsibility to provide suitable advice to Mr H taking into account his 
particular circumstances. The adviser suggested he be accompanied by a family member 
during the discussions. But I dont think that alone was sufficient to discharge the advisers 
professional obligation to look after Mr Hs interests. The adviser had rated Mr H as doubly 
vulnerable suggesting to me that the adviser potentially had grounds for concern about Mr H 
being able to properly understand the advice and make an informed investment decision. 
So I dont think it was good enough for the adviser to simply say in the Financial Report: We 
discussed using your funds to help repay your outstanding mortgage. We agreed that you do 
not want to pay off any lump sums off your mortgage at this time and you are comfortable 
with your current repayments. And that contradicted Lloyds previous understanding from 
2007 about when Mr H would repay his interest only loan.
Possibly, Mr H may not have fully understood or perhaps he misinterpreted some things the 
adviser said about future options for paying his mortgage. But to my mind, this doesnt affect 
my overall view. Ill explain in more detail why I say this. 
The adviser identified Mr H had a cautious attitude to risk and recommended investments 
accordingly. But, as I see things, the adviser should only have provided the investment 
advice:
after first ensuring that Mr H had been made fully aware of the risk he was taking in 
choosing not to prioritise his mortgage debt (and not just focusing on the risk levels of 
the particular recommended funds, especially when advising Mr H to invest money it 
looks like he had always planned, and would need, to use to pay his mortgage), and 
also,  
taking steps to ensure Mr H understood that the investment advice provided did not 
include different recommendations the adviser might otherwise have made since it 
reflected only what the adviser understood Mr H was interested in discussing.In the fact find the adviser has noted:
 Mortgage runs into retirement, (Mr H) has weighed up his options and has decided 
that he can happily afford his mortgage into retirement and would rather keep the 
money on deposit as savings and investments
In the Financial Report containing the advisers recommendations, the adviser said:
Your mortgage will continue into retirement and we have discussed the possibility of 
reducing the mortgage term so that it ends before this date. You confirmed that you are 
confident you will be able to meet the cost of your mortgage repayments in retirement 
because you have a good level of disposable income left over each month and would prefer 
to keep your lump sum as savings..
And later in the Financial Report:
Protection For Your Borrowings 
No recommendations have been made for you when looking at protecting your borrowings 
as, when assessing your initial need from the information you provided, you were not 
interested in this given you have savings which could be used to repay a substantial portion 
of your mortgage should the need arise, and you can comfortably afford the mortgage 
repayments on your pension income which will become index linked upon attaining age 55.
With a limited monthly disposable income and no obvious means of being able to repay his 
projected mortgage balance at the end of the mortgage term save for relying on his lump 
sum payment, the adviser had an obligation to make it clear to Mr H when making 
investment recommendations how this could impact on Mr H being able to repay his 
mortgage. The fact find and the advisers Financial Report mainly focus on investing a 
proportion of Mr Hs lump sum. I havent seen enough to make me think that the adviser 
made sufficiently clear the risk that Mr H was taking when he said he was not interested in 
discussing his mortgage. 
And even if the adviser thought Mr H preferred to keep his lump sum ..on deposit as 
savings and investments, risking his capital by recommending a cautious level of 
investment for around 40% of his lump sum put Mr H in jeopardy of not being able to rely on 
the pension lump sum as he had told the bank he planned to do, in order to repay his 
mortgage. The £58,000 he kept back wasnt enough on its own to cover the interest only part 
of Mr Hs mortgage  he would also most likely need the £42,000 Lloyds recommended him 
to invest (plus a small extra amount that potentially I think Mr H could realistically have 
expected to make up out of other savings). 
I cant see that this was specifically considered or spelled out to Mr H in a way that was 
clearly understandable for Mr H. The adviser seems mainly to have thought about 
affordability during the mortgage term rather than repaying the outstanding mortgage 
balance at the end of the term (when Mr H would be in his seventies). I dont consider the £116 surplus cash that the adviser calculated to be  a good level of 
disposable income left over each month was enough to enable Mr H to make up the amount 
he would need to repay his mortgage and I dont find he had capacity to bear investment 
loss.
As things stand, I find that making no recommendations about a realistic plan to pay his 
outstanding mortgage balance means I cant fairly say the adviser provided suitable advice 
to Mr H. His current financial adviser expressed this as follows: Advice is not merely placing 
funds in accordance with the clients expressed wishes, it is leading them through the 
consequences of their actions. I agree. And I havent been supplied with enough evidence 
to show that happened in this instance when the adviser made investment recommendations 
to Mr H in 2012.
It has been suggested that Mr H was free to accept or reject the advisers recommendations 
and that it was his choice to choose to invest even if the advice was wrong. But Mr H was 
entitled to expect the adviser, as the financial expert, to provide suitable advice and it was 
reasonable for Mr H to believe he was safely able to rely on the advisers recommendations. 
The recommendation doesnt make clear that not using the £100,000 lump sum to pay at 
least a portion of his mortgage debt and instead investing £42,000 in cautious rated funds 
risked Mr H being able to repay the mortgage by the end of the term. I  think it was important 
that the adviser made this clear to Mr H and Lloyds hasnt shown me that it did. 
So I plan to uphold Mr Hs complaint and it follows that its fair and reasonable to expect 
Lloyds to take steps to put things right.
When considering redress, I have kept in mind that the adviser recommended a level of 
investment that still left Mr H with the bulk of his lump sum.  around £58,000. So I think it's 
fair to say that had Mr H wanted to, he could have paid something towards reducing his 
outstanding mortgage balance in 2012, or soon after that. As far as I am aware, that hasnt 
yet happened  Mr Hs annual mortgage statement dated 31 December 2020 (the most 
recent I have been provided with) shows he needed £126,759.71 to repay his mortgage on 
that date. I think it likely Mr H will have been outside the period he would expect to pay any 
early repayment charge but Im mindful that he wanted a significant portion of this money to 
pay for home improvements. So I dont consider the fact that Mr H hasnt chosen to repay 
any part of his mortgage balance is enough of a reason for me not to uphold his complaint. 
Also, I am aware that his lump sum fell short of the amount Mr H would have needed to 
repay his outstanding mortgage in 2012 - although he could have cleared the interest-only 
part if he had wanted to, which would have meant he could expect his capital repayments 
would fully repay the mortgage balance by the end of the term.
With my above comments in mind, on balance my view is that if Mr H had received suitable 
advice in 2012, he would not have invested in the ISA and Personal Investment Plan, but he 
also would not have chosen to use that same sum to repay part of his mortgage at that time. 
So, I am recommending redress is calculated on the basis that suitable advice for Mr H 
wouldve been to keep his £100,000 lump sum payment in no risk investments as that is the 
only way he could be sure it would still be available to apply towards paying the outstanding 
capital balance on his mortgage. 
So I plan to direct Lloyds to take the following steps to put things right.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H commented on some of the figures I had mentioned and reiterated that it was incorrect 
to suggest he would not have used his lump to pay off the mortgage in 2012. Mr H put it this 
way: I believed the meeting with the financial adviser that day was to simply implement my 
agreement with the Bank in 2007 to pay off the interest only part of the mortgage. Any 
subsequent decisions made regarding this money were made following the advice I had 
been given and would not have been made at all had the Bank simply requested the money 
as agreed.
Lloyds confirmed it agreed with the provisional decision and the proposed redress. It said its 
Regulated Investments Team will complete any calculations required once Mr H has 
confirmed acceptance of the Final Decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about 
this matter..
I appreciate Mr H drawing my attention to some of the figures I had mentioned in my 
provisional decision  I relied on information recorded by the adviser in the fact find so this 
makes no difference to my view of this complaint.
And Im grateful to Lloyds for confirming its position ahead of the deadline for responses, so 
keeping avoidable delay to a minimum and enabling me to issue a decision sooner.   
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr H fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Lloyds should also pay interest as set out below.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Scottish 
Widows 
stocks and 
shares ISA
Personal 
Investment 
Planunknown Date of
investmentDate 
investment 
ceased to 
be held or 
(if 
investment 
still held) 
the date 
Mr H 
confirms 
he accepts 
my final 
decision Average rate 
from fixed rate
bonds*8% simple per 
year on any
loss from the
end date to the
date of
settlement(if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Lloyds 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any withdrawal from the investment should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Lloyds totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Any additional sum that Mr H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H was assessed as having a cautious attitude to investment risk. But, 
had the adviser discussed his need for an account that protected his lump 
sum against the risk his capital amount would decrease, so as to preserve 
Mr Hs stated intention of using his lump sum to repay his mortgage, I think 
its more likely than not that he would have kept the £42,000.00 he invested 
in the above portfolios in a savings account, without risking any of his 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given 
Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr H would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer 
could have obtained with little risk to their capital.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from the interest part of this 
award. Lloyds must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to take the steps I have set out 
above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman