DRN-2843874
The complaint
Ms K and Miss K complain about their insurer, Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco). Their 
complaint relates to the rejection of a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to 
their property in bad weather. 
Tesco use agents to administer the policy. Reference to Tesco includes these agents.
What happened
In October 2020 Ms K and Miss K contacted Tesco about a leak into a bedroom from the 
roof of their property following bad weather. Tesco initially told Ms K and Miss K that the 
weather at the time of the incident wasnt severe enough to be classified as a storm. 
Consequently, they wouldnt accept Ms K and Miss Ks claim for the damage, as they 
believed that any damage was a result of lack of maintenance. Ms K and Miss K 
subsequently arranged for the whole roof to be replaced by their own contractor.
 
Unhappy at the rejection of their claim, Ms K and Miss K complained to Tesco. Tesco 
rejected the complaint, upholding the initial decision to decline the claim. Tesco noted that in 
reviewing Ms K and Miss Ks complaint they had revised their view on whether there were 
storm conditions, and now considered that there were gale force winds around the time of 
the incident. Tesco asked for photographs of the damage and a report from Ms K and Miss 
Ks contractor to enable them to consider their claim.
Ms K and Mrs K sent photographs of the roof before the damage but didnt provide a report 
from their contractor. Tesco then arranged for their surveyor (C) to inspect Ms K and Miss 
Ks property. C visited the property. Tesco then contacted Ms K and Miss K to confirm their 
decline of their claim. This was based on Cs report conclusion that the wind and rain 
highlighted existing issues in the roof and that the roof hadnt been maintained properly. 
Tesco also said that there wasnt any evidence of storm damage to the roof. Lack of 
maintenance was an exclusion in the policy. But Tesco did offer £960 for water damage to 
the bedroom and £40 for damaged loft insulation. Tesco subsequently also offered £100 as 
a goodwill gesture in recognition of the initial confusion about storm conditions.
Ms K and Miss K also tried to contact Tesco to use the legal expenses section of their policy 
to dispute Tescos rejection of their claim for damage. But they were told that this was not 
possible. Tesco told them that this section of their policy wasnt intended to provide legal 
assistance to dispute the rejection of claims made under other sections of the policy and 
referred to the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Unhappy at their complaint being rejected, their claim being declined and not being able to 
use the legal expenses section of their policy, Ms K and Miss K complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that they wouldnt ask Tesco to 
do anything more. He concluded there were storm conditions at the time of the damage but 
having considered the evidence he couldnt fairly say that Tesco were wrong to decline the 
claim for the roof damage. The investigator also thought that £100 was a fair offer in 
recognition of the initial confusion about whether there were storm conditions.
Ms K and Miss K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. Ms K and Miss K didnt feel £100 was enough 
compensation given the circumstances, in particular that Tesco changed its mind about 
whether there were storm conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Tesco has acted fairly towards Ms K and Miss K.
There are three main elements to Ms K and Miss Ks complaint. The first is Tescos rejection 
of their claim for the cost of repairing the damage to the roof. The second is that they werent 
able to use the legal expenses section of their policy to dispute Tescos rejection of their 
claim. The third is the amount of compensation offered by Tesco.
Turning to the first element of the complaint, Ive looked at the three key questions we 
consider in complaints involving damage caused by storms:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Tesco initially didnt consider that the weather conditions to be a storm. 
But Ive also noted that they subsequently changed their view and the report from C states:
The weather data meets the required criteria for storm conditions on the incident 
date and so can consider the internal damage under the storm peril
As there is no dispute on this point and Tesco assessed the claim under storm damage, Ive 
concluded that the answer to the first question is yes.
On the second question, Ive looked at the evidence from Ms K and Miss K, including 
photographs of the roof. Ive also looked at the report from C. Looking at the photographs I 
cant see obvious indications of storm damage, for example missing of dislodged tiles, nor of 
any more extensive damage. In the report from C, based on internal inspection and the 
photographs provided by Ms K and Miss K. Ive noted the conclusion that:
The wind and rain on the incident date has, in our opinion, merely highlighted issues 
with the underfelt. The degradation of the underfelt is a gradually operated 
occurrence and specifically excluded under the terms of the policy. We are therefore 
unable to validate the external works.
Based on these considerations Im not persuaded that the damage is consistent with that 
caused by a storm.
On the third question, Tesco said that they declined the claim because of a lack of 
maintenance to the roof. So, the adverse weather conditions simply highlighted pre-existing 
issues rather than being the main (or dominant) cause of the damage. Ive noted that in the 
policy, under the heading Policy exclusions that apply to all sections of cover it includes:Loss, damage or reduction in value as a result of lack of general maintenance to 
your home
Ive also noted from the Tesco case notes that Ms K and Miss K told them that no 
maintenance work was carried out for over 20 years prior to the incident.
Taking all these points Ive concluded that, on the balance of probabilities and in the 
absence of any evidence from Ms K and Miss Ks contractor about the nature of the damage 
and its cause, the storm wasnt the main (or dominant) cause of the damage. And that pre-
existing maintenance issues are likely to have been the cause. As such, it was reasonable to 
apply the exclusion to decline the claim.
On the second element of complaint. I can see that legal expenses cover is provided by a 
separate insurer to Tesco, so Im not able to consider this as part of the complaint against 
Tesco.
However, while I cant consider this formally, Ive noted that Tesco told Ms K and Miss K that 
the legal expenses section couldnt be used to dispute their rejection of the claim and that 
the terms and conditions of the relevant section of the policy includes under the heading 
What is not insured the following under Claims:
b) Claims made by or against your insurance advisor, the insurer, the advisor or us.
I think this exclusion is clear and I agree that it would mean that Ms K and Miss K couldnt 
use the legal expenses section of their policy to dispute Tescos rejection of their claim.
On the third question, compensation, Ive considered the circumstances of Ms K and Miss 
Ks complaint. It was unfortunate that there was initial confusion about whether there were 
storm conditions, but given my conclusions above I dont think that this would have changed 
the outcome of Ms K and Miss Ks claim. And while there may have been some issues 
contacting Tesco, the case notes Ive seen indicate a continuing dialogue between Tesco 
and Ms K and Miss K during the period of their claim and subsequent complaint. For these 
reasons I think that Tescos offer of £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms K and Miss Ks 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman