The complaint
Mrs T complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy following an escape of water. 
What happened
Mrs T had a home insurance policy with Lloyds General Insurance Limited (Lloyds), which 
she took out on 11 April 2019.
On 14 August 2019 Mrs T contacted Lloyds to make a claim after her husband found water 
seeping through the kitchen ceiling from the bathroom above. Mrs T informed Lloyds that 
she thought water was leaking from underneath the shower.
Lloyds said it attempted to contact Mrs T the following day but it was unable to reach her. 
But Mrs T said, as she hadn't been able to speak with Lloyds and was without water, she 
instructed a plumber to attend her property to investigate the cause of the escape of water. 
She said, during that visit, the plumber identified the leak to be coming from a burst pipe 
underneath the sink and repaired it.
On 16 August 2019 Mrs T contacted Lloyds to explain that a plumber had attended her 
property the previous day to repair the leak. However, she stated that the leak was still 
ongoing and the kitchen ceiling had partially collapsed. So, Lloyds said it would instruct 
home emergency contractors to attend Mrs Ts property.
On 19 August 2019 Mrs T told Lloyds home emergency contractors had attended and 
resealed the shower area, as it felt the leak was coming from that area. However, as leak 
continued Mrs T contacted Lloyds further. And it agreed to appoint its response team in 
order to carry out a further trace and access.
On 22 August 2019 a leak detection survey was undertaken on Mrs Ts property by a 
company that Ill refer to as D in this decision. D told Lloyds the sealant and grouting 
around the shower tray and screen was faulty and had caused the escape of water. D said, 
because the grouting had also failed, this explained why the damage continued to get worse 
following the repair to the sink and resealed show tray. So, Lloyds told Mrs T it was declining 
her claim.
However, Mrs T disputed Ds opinion and told Lloyds she felt the damage had been caused 
solely by the leak from the sink. Given the disagreement about the cause of damage Lloyds 
asked Mrs T to submit a report from her plumber confirming what shed said. 
When Mrs T submitted the plumbers report it confirmed that, on attending her property on 
15 August 2019, the leak had been from a pipe underneath the sink. And it stated this had 
been repaired during its visit. But Lloyds felt there was no evidence of resulting damage from 
DRN-1650682the sink leak and it didnt think it was possible that this was the primary cause of damage. 
So, it maintained its decision to decline Mrs Ts claim.
Mrs T wasnt happy about this and complained to Lloyds about the decision it had reached. 
She submitted another report from an independent company, which she felt supported her 
opinion about the cause of the damage. And when Lloyds reviewed Mrs Ts complaint it 
offered to contribute 20% towards the cost of repairs. But Mrs T didnt think this was fair and 
asked for her complaint to be escalated.
When Mrs Ts complaint was reviewed further by Lloyds it told her it was satisfied that the 
failed sealant had contributed to the damage caused but it didnt think it was the main cause. 
So, it agreed to increase its contribution to 50% towards the cost of the damage. And it paid 
Mrs T £100 compensation to recognise the delays and poor service shed experienced in 
how it had progressed her claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs T brought her complaint to our service. However, our investigator 
didnt uphold it. She agreed with Lloyds outcome and thought it had fairly offered to settle 
this claim. But Mrs T disagreed and asked an ombudsman to decide her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that water damage occurred to Mrs Ts property. However, theres a 
disagreement between the parties about the cause of the damage and correct outcome of 
this claim. 
I can see Mrs T has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some detailed 
submissions. And I understand she feels very strongly that Lloyds should settle her claim on 
a 100% basis. I want to assure her that Ive read everything shes said and Ive also seen the 
videos and photographs she provided our service. I hope she will understand if I dont 
address every comment shes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to the complaint  namely whether Lloyds acted reasonably in how it offered 
to resolve this claim. And Ill explain why I think it has.
In deciding the fairest way to resolve Mrs Ts complaint Ive considered what Mrs T told our 
service together with the content of any reports obtained on the cause of the escape of 
water. Ive also taken into account information provided by Lloyds.
The plumber that attended Mrs Ts property on 15 August 2019 stated that  the leak was 
coming from either hot or cold domestic water from the above bathroom and likely from the 
shower. And they said, when they removed part of the bathroom flooring, they noted there 
was a large patch of black damp on the plywood and floorboard to the right of the shower 
tray. They explained when the water was turned back on they found the leak to be coming 
from the pipe underneath the sink and proceeded to fix it.
Like our investigator, Im persuaded from the plumbers report that there was evidence of a 
leak from both the shower and sink. And I think the reference to damp patch around the 
shower tray demonstrates that the shower had contributed to the escape of water Mrs T 
reported to Lloyds.  
Ive seen the subsequent report that Mrs T obtained. Im satisfied this provided an 
independent opinion on the likely cause of the escape of water. And Im persuaded it 
confirms that water wasnt leaking solely due to problems with pipes underneath the sink. I think this therefore lends weight to Lloyds argument that damage was also occurring as a 
result of issues with the shower.
Ive carefully considered the content of the trace and access report D produced. Having 
done so I can see it attributes the escape of water here to problems with the shower. It 
explains clearly why it doesnt think the escape of water is primarily as a result of the sink 
leak.   
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that there was a leak coming from the pipe underneath 
the bathroom sink. I think this caused some of the damage to Mrs Ts property. But I dont 
think it was the primary cause. I say this because, after the sink leak was repaired, water 
continued to escape and the damage worsened.
Im persuaded from the reports Ive seen that the damage was contributed to by a leak in the 
shower tray, which was caused by failed shower sealant and grouting. Im satisfied this was 
pre-existing damage that would have occurred gradually. I say this because sealant and 
grouting will deteriorate over a period of time. And, based on the evidence from the plumber 
that attended Mrs Ts property in August 2019, the damp around the shower tray was 
already present. 
The terms of Mrs Ts policy state that any damage caused by wear and tear or depreciation 
is excluded. The policy also specifically excludes any leaks as a result of damaged: baths or 
shower seals baths, shower valves and anything connected to or related to the shower valve 
outlet, shower enclosures or trays. 
This satisfies me that any damage caused by sealant and grouting of the shower wouldnt 
have been covered under Mrs Ts insurance policy. So, I cant fairly find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly in declining to cover any damage caused by grout and sealant issues.
In this case its only the damage that was caused by the burst pipe underneath the bathroom 
sink thats covered under Mrs Ts insurance policy. However, as our investigator explained, it 
isnt possible to determine how much damage was caused by either leak from the shower 
tray or sink. This is a difficulty that Lloyds also faced and its why it offered to settle this claim 
on a 50% basis.
Ive seen the videos and photographs Mrs T provided our service. But Im not persuaded 
they assist in assessing how much damage I can fairly attribute to the burst pipe underneath 
the sink. And I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me that Lloyds should settle this 
claim on a 100% basis. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im persuaded that Lloyds has acted fairly in 
agreeing to increase its contribution towards the cost of repairing the damage caused from 
20% to 50%. So, I wont be asking it to increase its offer any further.
To resolve this complaint Lloyds should therefore settle Mrs Ts claim for repairs caused by 
the escape of water she reported in August 2019 on a 50% basis. In the interests of fairness 
it should also reimburse her half the cost of the report she obtained. Like our investigator, I 
agree this report resulted in Lloyds reassessing the basis on which it was prepared to settle 
this claim. 
Finally, Lloyds accepted there were some delays and shortfalls in the service Mrs T 
experienced while it was dealing with her claim. And it paid her £100 compensation to 
recognise this. Im satisfied this fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mrs T was caused. Its in 
line with awards our service has made in similar circumstances and its what I would have suggested had no offer been made. So, I wont be requiring Lloyds to increase the 
compensation its already paid.
I know that Mrs T will be disappointed by this decision. But, this now brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve her dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs T any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
has made an offer to settle this claim on the basis of 50%. I conclude that such an offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance should settle Mrs Ts claim for repairs caused by the escape of water she reported 
in August 2019 on a 50% basis. It should also reimburse her half the cost of the report she 
obtained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman