DRN-3172105
The complaint
Mr N complains that TSB Bank plc promised a specific amount of money would arrive with 
the recipient of an overseas transfer, but the recipient got less.
What happened
Mr N told us he wanted to make an overseas payment, and to ensure that 195,000 in the 
local currency (which I dont need to name here) arrived with his recipient. But Mr N showed 
us that only 187,777 arrived.
Mr N said that when he made a payment through the TSB website, it offered to calculate the 
amount in UK pounds (GBP) so that the recipient could receive a specified amount in their 
own currency. And the website also set out how much TSB was charging for its currency 
conversion service.
But Mr N said that in response to his complaint, TSB was now claiming to have no access to 
information about charges that could be applied by intermediary banks. Mr N said TSB was 
sending his money to another British bank, which was taking a previously undisclosed 
amount from his payment, before forwarding it overseas. Mr N said there was no way for him 
to prepare for how much he would be charged at this stage. And Mr N said this was 
preventing him from sending the right amounts overseas.
Mr N said TSB should either do the work involved in making sure that the specified amount 
actually got to the recipient, and charges were shown accurately on its website, or it should 
stop claiming that it could do these exact calculations.
TSB said that its terms set out how payments like the one Mr N made would work. Mr N 
pays TSBs charges. If TSB uses an intermediary, then the charges for that intermediary will 
also be paid by Mr N, and those charges will be taken from the payment before it reaches 
the recipient. The business Mr N sent money to would then pay any charges levied by their 
own bank.
TSB said this information was available to Mr N before he made the payment, and it hadnt 
made a mistake, so it wouldnt pay any more either to Mr N or to the person he sent this 
payment to.
TSB also showed us a final response letter, which said the amount the recipient received 
was less that Mr N expected because it was routed through intermediary banks who apply 
charges along the way.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the terms that 
TSB applies to international payments make clear that when a payment is made online, the 
recipient will need to pay any charges levied by their own bank. She said she understood 
that it was frustrating for Mr N to be told that he still owed some money to the business he 
was trying to pay, because of charges applied by that business own bank, but she didnt 
think TSB had made a mistake or been unfair.
Mr N didnt agree. He said that the charges hadnt been levied by the recipients bank, they 
had been levied by an intermediary bank. He accepted that the recipients bank may apply 
further charges once a payment arrives, which the recipient would pay. But he said that 
things went wrong before this, because the charges in this case were applied before the 
money reached the recipients bank.
Mr N said TSB shouldnt be claiming that it could ensure a specific amount would reach the
recipients bank, if it couldnt ensure that. He said that TSB promises Well always confirm
the charges youll pay before you agree to make the international payment. But thats not
what it is doing.
As Mr N didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
TSBs charging guide says, for international payments which are done through 
internet banking, and are paid within the EEA, that 
You will share the charges with the person you are paying:
Youll pay all of our charges (including the charges of any agent bank we 
use). If we use an agent bank when making the payment, their charge (if any) 
will be taken from the amount you are paying before it reaches the 
person you are paying. [emphasis added]
TSB told us that its online details for international payments, within its internet 
banking portal, phrase this differently. They say this 
Our transfer charges for sending an international payment online for all 
accounts ..are:
..
All other payments up to £5,000: the charge is £10.
But importantly, TSB said that this information goes on to say 
When you make an international payment you will pay our charges, and the 
person receiving the payment pays all other charges. This may result in the 
person receiving the payment receiving a lesser amount than you have 
sent, or these charges may be debited from their account separately. Other 
charging options are available in branch or via telephone banking. [emphasis 
added]
TSB says that if Mr N wanted a specific amount to arrive with the recipient, then it 
would have expected him to explore the other charging options available in branch or 
through online banking.
Mr N said TSB was promising it would confirm all the applicable charges before he 
made the payment, then not doing that. But the only promise like this that Ive been 
able to see is in TSBs terms for payments made in the branch or over the phone. 
Those terms say 
We'll always confirm the charges you'll pay before you agree to make the
international payment.
I havent been able to see a similar promise made by TSB for payments made 
through its online banking portal. And I do think that the information about transfers made online that TSB has shown us, warns Mr N that the recipient may well receive 
less than he sent.
I wouldnt say that TSB had made a mistake in this case, unless I could see that it 
had promised Mr N that a specific amount would arrive with the recipient. And on the 
evidence Ive seen so far, I havent been able to see that TSB did promise this, when 
Mr N made his payment online. So, without further evidence from Mr N on what led 
him to believe that the recipient would receive a precise amount, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB responded to say that it did not have any additional information to provide.
Mr N replied to disagree. He said that Id quoted TSB as saying that if he 
"wanted a specific amount to arrive with the recipient, then it would have expected 
[him] to explore the other charging options available in branch or through online 
banking."
Mr N said hed been into a branch to ask about charges, and this wasnt what TSB told him. 
He said at first the branch made several phone calls to London but still couldnt give him an 
answer about how much could be taken from the money he transferred. Then a senior 
branch manager told him TSB had no way to tell what intermediary banks may charge. 
Mr N said this means, if he wants to send money abroad, he will have to guess how much an 
unnamed bank in London would charge, and then try again if he happens to guess the 
wrong amount. Mr N said that was ridiculous. Mr N also said this wasnt what TSB had told 
me. He thought that the quote Id reproduced from TSB meant that it either didnt tell him the 
truth in the branch, or it didnt tell me the truth when it wrote to our service. 
Mr N said that if TSB really had no idea about intermediary charges, then that was 
unacceptable. He felt strongly that a bank must take responsibility for payments it handles 
and not just say that it cant possibly tell him what will happen to his money, because it does 
not have the power to get information from its partners.
Mr N said that if TSB did know what these charges were, then it should tell its customers that 
whenever they send money overseas. 
Mr N also sent us a screenshot from internet banking, which he said didnt talk about 
charges by intermediary banks at all. Mr N said that screenshot is TSBs promise. And it 
failed to deliver accordingly. So Mr N wanted me to change my mind. 
What I understand that Mr N is telling us now, is that since reading my provisional decision, 
hes been into a branch, to check if TSB can tell him about the charges if he makes this 
transfer in a branch. And he says TSB has told him that it cannot set out for him the charges 
that will be made by any intermediary banks, for international payments, even if he makes 
his payment through a branch. I can comment generally on what Mr N has told us about this recent discussion in branch. 
From my experience, its not uncommon for banks to say that they cant tell a customer in 
advance how much intermediary banks will charge. Banks which rely on intermediaries to 
make transfers, arent in control of these costs. Dedicated exchange and overseas transfer 
companies might give Mr N more insight into likely charges before he sends money. 
But I cannot comment more specifically on this point, in relation to what TSB has done here. 
Whilst I recognise that Mr N will find this frustrating, the complaint he made to our service 
was about a payment made online. Mr N hasnt previously set out this conversation in 
branch for us, or raised a detailed complaint about the advice he was given in branch. And I 
cant see that hes raised this with TSB either. 
Our service isnt able to consider a complaint which hasnt been made to the business 
involved, before that business has had a chance to respond to it. So Im not able to add into 
this case now, the points Mr N has raised about advice hes been given in branch. I can only 
look at the complaint he originally raised with us, which was about an online payment. 
I know that the amount which was taken from this payment wasnt a large sum, and that it 
wasnt a large percentage of what was sent. But I do understand Mr Ns concern  that he 
owes a specific amount, and wants to be able to pay exactly what he owes. What I thought 
was key, however, in this case was whether TSB had actually promised that a specific 
amount would arrive overseas.
Mr N said TSB had promised this - that a certain amount would arrive with the recipient of 
his payment. And he said that it failed to deliver on this promise. But the screenshot that Mr 
N has sent us now is, I think, clear that TSB is offering only an estimate of how much a 
transfer will cost. It makes no promises about how much money will arrive at the recipient, or 
indeed how much the charges will be. So I still cant say that TSB has broken a promise to 
Mr N, because the amount that arrived with his recipient was less than he envisaged. 
And Ive explained that I cannot add in to Mr Ns complaint now, the more recent points he 
makes about the advice hes been given in branch, and whether this fits with what TSB said 
to our service.
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman