DRN-2080768
The complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2009.
Mr T says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
In 2009 Mr T took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a loan online. The policy 
provided protection for Mr T's loan payments and cost £56.10 per month.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. They didn't think Santander 
had clearly disclosed the cost before Mr T made his decision to buy the policy. And given the 
cost and his circumstances, didn't think Mr T would have agreed to take the policy if 
Santander had been clearer.
Santander didnt agree with the adjudicators decision, so this complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr T's complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr T's complaint.
Mr T took out his policy online. Santander has provided example internet loan application
screen shots that it says Mr T would have seen when he applied for his loan and PPI in 
2009.
Ive looked at the screenshots provided. On the part of the loan application where Mr T
was asked if he wanted PPI he had to select either 'Yes' or 'No' to accept or decline the 
policy. No cost information was provided.
Santander says the cost of the PPI couldn't be provided at this point because it was only
calculated once the loan had been approved and the interest rate decided.  Santander has 
said Mr T couldve used an online calculator on its website, which it says
would have given an estimate of what the loan repayment both with and without PPI would 
have been. 
But using the calculator wasn't a mandatory part of the loan application process. And it was 
Santanders responsibility to clearly explain what the policy cost.
With the above in mind I dont think Mr T was fairly made aware of how much the policy cost 
at the time it was sold to him.
Santander has further explained that Mr T would have been sent a welcome pack, which
included a letter giving more details of the PPI, including information on the cost. And its
sent us an example of what this information looked like.
I have thought about this, but this documentation wasnt sent until after Mr T had agreed to 
take his loan and PPI. So overall, based on the evidence provided I'm not persuaded 
Santander provided clear information about the cost of the policy before he agreed to take it, 
as it should have. 
Im not persuaded that Mr T would have still gone ahead with PPI if he had been given 
clearer information about the cost of the policy. I say this because the cost of the PPI was 
significant in relation to the benefit it offered, and I dont think Mr T would have thought that 
the cost and benefit proposition worked for him.
It follows that I think Mr T has lost out as a result.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr T in the position he would be in now if he hadn't taken out PPI. The
policy should be cancelled, if it hasn't been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr T the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
Santander has already paid Mr T back some of the money he paid for the PPI in 
relation to high commission and profit share it received, it can take that off from the 
amount it owes him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided to uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay 
Mr T compensation in line with what I have said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman