DRN-3736449
The complaint
Mrs P complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt offer her the market value for her 
car following a claim made on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs Ps car was deemed to be a total loss following an accident. The car was on contract 
hire and UKI settled the claim for the cars total loss with the finance company that owned 
the car. Mrs P was unhappy that UKI hadnt paid the cars market value. But UKI said that 
Mrs P wasnt the cars legal owner and couldnt dispute the settlement.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought UKI 
had acted within the policys terms and conditions when it made the settlement with the 
finance company. She thought Mrs P wasnt the cars legal owner and wasnt entitled to its 
market value. 
But she thought Mrs P had suffered a loss as UKI hadnt considered the deposit she had 
paid and that she would need another deposit to replace her car before the contract should 
have ended. So she thought UKI should pay Mrs P a pro-rata amount of her deposit, with 
interest. 
UKI replied that it couldnt see that Mrs P had paid an initial deposit. It said that any initial 
payment Mrs P paid was a consequential loss that she would have to bear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs P felt disappointed that the settlement for the loss of her car 
wasnt for the cars market value. She has explained that this is how she understood her 
policys terms and conditions. And she thought the settlement was below the cars market 
value.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that on page 6 of the policy booklet, it is stated: 
" If youre leasing your car or buying on hire Purchase
If your car cant be repaired and youre leasing it, well pay any claims to the lease 
company, because they are the legal owners of the car.
If your car cant be repaired and youre buying it on hire purchase or a similar agreement, 
well pay any claims to the legal owner. Well only pay any remaining balance to you if you 
have the option to become the full owner at the end of the agreement."
Mrs Ps lease agreement with her finance provider states on page 11,
6. YOUR INSURANCE OBLIGATIONS
(b) If the Vehicle is stolen or becomes a total loss you assign to Us the right to receive any 
monies due from the insurers (allowing the insurer to make payment directly to Us) and:
(iii) You agree that, where We elect to do so in our sole discretion, We are authorised to 
negotiate settlement values with the insurer on Your behalf.
Im satisfied that these terms make it clear that any negotiations regarding settlement figures 
are between UKI and the finance provider. And so I think UKI acted in line with the terms of 
policy as the finance company was the cars legal owner, not Mrs P. And Im satisfied that as 
Mrs P wasnt the cars legal owner, she wasnt entitled to its market value. 
But we dont think this is necessarily fair and reasonable. Our approach is that such a 
settlement can cause a customer to lose out. This is where the customer has paid a deposit 
(often some months worth of lease payments up front) and they wont get some or all of it 
back. And to lease a new car the customer would need to find a new deposit earlier than 
planned.
UKI has argued that Mrs P didnt pay a deposit as that word isnt used in her lease 
agreement. But I disagree. I can see that Mrs P paid an initial payment which was greater 
than the monthly hire charges. And I think this can reasonably be regarded as a deposit that 
Mrs P paid. 
So I think Mrs P lost out as she didnt have the full benefit of her initial payment. And so I 
think UKIs settlement of the claim has led to an unfair outcome for Mrs P. And Im satisfied 
that the fairest outcome is for UKI to also pay Mrs P a pro-rata amount of her deposit to 
make sure she doesnt lose out. Mrs P has been without her money for some time. So I think 
interest should reasonably be added to this amount. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs P a pro-rata amount of her deposit, or initial 
payment, discounting the VAT element if included. It should add interest to this amount at 
the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the settlement to the date payment is 
made. 
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman