DRN-3915266
Complaint
Mr B has complained about credit cards Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) 
provided him with. He says it was irresponsible for the same company to approve five credit 
cards for him. 
Background
Mr B had five credit card accounts with Creation in total. Mr Bs accounts had the following 
lending decisions made by Creation on the following dates:
Account Lending Decision Credit Limit Date
Initial opening £5,000 March 2010
Limit increase £8,500 January 2018
Limit increase £9,500 November 2019A
Limit increase £10,000 October 2020
Initial opening £4,000 November 2016
Limit increase £5,000 July 2017
Limit increase £6,000 November 2019B
Limit increase £8,000 October 2020
Initial opening £5,000 January 2017
Limit increase £6,000 August 2017C
Limit increase £7,000 November 2019
Initial opening £3,700 May 2017
Limit increase £4,400 November 2019D
Limit increase £6,216 October 2020
Initial opening £5,000 August 2018
Limit decrease £4,830 April 2020E
Limit decrease £4,700 October 2020
Weve already, separately, explained to the parties why were unable to look at the complaint 
about the initial decision to provide account A. So weve not considered whether Creation 
acted fairly and reasonably when opening that account. Weve only considered the limit 
increases on that account as well as the complaints about accounts B to E. 
Creation didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that all of the appropriate eligibility and 
affordability checks were conducted prior to the approval of Mr Bs credit cards. 
One of our investigators looked at everything provided and thought that Mr Bs complaint 
should be partially upheld. She thought that Creation ought to have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any additional credit to Mr B after the credit limit increase to £8,500.00 on 
account A in January 2018. In other words she upheld the complaint about the lending 
decisions specified below:
Account Lending Decision Credit Limit Date
Limit increase £9,500 November 2019 A
Limit increase £10,000 October 2020
Limit increase £6,000 November 2019 B
Limit increase £8,000 October 2020
C Limit increase £7,000 November 2019
Limit increase £4,400 November 2019 D
Limit increase £6,216 October 2020
E Decision to 
provide account£5,000 August 2018
 
Our investigator also thought that Creation failed to appropriately respond to Mr Bs request 
for assistance when he had difficulty making his credit card payments. Overall she thought 
that Creation needed to refund all of the extra interest and charges it added as a result of the 
extra credit it shouldnt have provided and also pay Mr B £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in responding to Mr Bs correspondence.   
Mr B accepted our investigators assessment. But Creation disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans review. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties do not appear to be in dispute about the lending decisions prior to the opening 
of account E in August 2018, Ive focused my findings from this point onwards.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Creation needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Creation should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive kept all of this in mind when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Did Creation carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would 
be able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time it provided account E?
Creation has said that it used a robust credit assessment tool, which assessed Mr Bs 
individual circumstances before providing all of Mr Bs accounts. However, despite having 
been asked for this on a number of occasions, other some basic information regarding his 
income, it hasnt provided any detail in relation to what its assessment of Mr Bs 
circumstances showed and what led it to believe that a further credit card  in relation to 
account E - was affordable. 
What is important to note is that when Mr E was provided with account E he already had 
credit limits totalling £23,200.00 available to him on accounts A to D. So when providing        
Mr B with a credit limit of £5,000.00 on account E, Creation needed to understand whether 
Mr B was able to repay £28,200.00, plus any interest accrued, within a reasonable period of 
time. 
Creation has provided little detail on, let alone the evidence to support, what it knew about 
Mr Bs ability to repay £28,200.00, plus interest, within a reasonable period of time in        
August 2018. Indeed, its arguable that it is Creations view that its checks were 
proportionate because its credit assessment tool approved account E. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Creation is responsible for any lending approved by its systems. 
Given that Creation insists that all of Mr Bs credit cards were affordable, it ought to know  
and have explained  not only what data its credit assessment tool analysed, but more 
importantly also how it used and interpreted this information to make responsible lending 
decisions. Without this explanation from Creation, I cannot and will not take it as read that 
the decisions from its robust credit assessment tool were fair. 
This is especially as given the total amount of credit that was made available to Mr B. And 
given what any credit search on Mr B is likely to have shown at the time, it is my view that 
Creation would have needed to have a reasonably detailed understanding of Mr Bs income 
and expenditure in order for its checks to have been reasonable and proportionate. 
Creation has not been able to provide me with the evidence to support that it had even a 
basic understanding of Mr Bs expenditure in August 2018, let alone a detailed one. So Im 
not persuaded that the checks it carried out before providing Mr B with account E were 
reasonable and proportionate.     
As I dont think that Creation carried out proportionate checks before providing account E, Id 
usually go on to recreate what a proportionate check is more likely than not to have shown. 
However, for reasons Ill go on to explain in the next section of this provisional decision, I 
dont think that it is necessary for me to do that here.   
Bearing in mind the circumstances, was there a point where Creation ought reasonably to 
have realised it was increasing Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance makes it clear that a lender shouldnt 
continue offering credit where the borrowing is unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or 
where its apparent the borrower may be experiencing financial difficulties. So in addition to 
assessing the circumstances behind each individual lending decision, I also think its fair and 
reasonable to look at what unfolded during the course of Mr Bs customer relationship with 
Creation. 
Ive already explained why, I think that reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
werent completed when Creation provided Mr B with account E in August 2018. 
In my view, Mr Bs management of his existing accounts as well as his increasing 
indebtedness showed that he may well have been struggling financially. Mr B made 8 
requests for credit limit increases in the four-month period leading up to account E being 
provided. And four of these were made in the month prior to account E being provided. 
Furthermore, Mr E obtained a credit card and loan from other providers in this period too. 
I dont think that offering Mr B a further credit card with a credit limit of £5,000.00 and 
therefore offering substantially more credit at a high APR when Mr B was already struggling 
to manage his existing debt was offering assistance. In my view, Creation increasing Mr Bs 
credit limit in this way and in these circumstances was adding to any potential financial 
difficulty rather than offering assistance. 
Im also astounded by Creations decision to offer Mr B a further seven limit increases on 
accounts A to D in the circumstances that it did in the eleven-month period between             
November 2019 and October 2020. Creation made close to £7,000.00 extra available to             
Mr B. And most astonishingly of all, Creation made a further £4,000.00 available to Mr B, 
across accounts A to D, in October 2020 despite also taking the decision to reduce the credit 
limit on account E and despite it also writing to Mr B in March 2020 to tell him that he was in 
persistent debt. And this is in circumstances where Creation has offered no further evidence 
demonstrating that it better understood whether Mr B had the ability to repay this credit 
either.   
In my view, Creation increasing Mr Bs credit limit and advancing further funds in this way - 
when he was already clearly demonstrating an inability to manage his existing debt - unfairly 
increased and prolonged his indebtedness. I think that Creation ought fairly and reasonably 
to have realised that Mr Bs existing debt had already become a problem and taken steps 
other than continuing to provide more and more expensive credit. Instead, its actions meant 
that Mr B paid Creation high amounts of interest for the privilege of it allowing him to delay 
dealing with his unsustainable debt.
Given all of Creations obligations and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account 
the circumstances and everything Ive covered in this section, I find that Creation ought fairly 
and reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt have provided Mr B with account E in 
August 2018 and any of the credit limit increases on accounts A to D from this point 
onwards.
Mr B requesting help from Creation in order to repay what he owed on his accounts
Creation has confirmed that it received Mr Bs email of 1 November 2021, which contained 
his formal complaint. As part of this correspondence Mr B confirmed that he was struggling 
to make his credit card payments and requested consolidating his balances into a loan with 
more manageable payments. I accept that Creation might not have been prepared to offer Mr B a consolidation loan. 
Nonetheless once a lender is told, or it realises, that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulties I would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its 
regulatory obligations. And in this instance Creation didnt respond to Mr Bs correspondence 
for a number of months. 
Creation says that this was because of internal delays. This may or may not have been the 
case. However, I think that Creations failure to promptly respond to Mr Bs correspondence 
indicating that he was having difficulty keeping up with his payments wasnt in line with its 
obligations and this is a further reason why I think that it failed to act fairly and reasonably in 
its dealing with Mr B.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about everything, I find that:
Creation didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr B to 
satisfy itself that he would be able to sustainably repay what he owed on 
account E or any of the credit limit increases offered on accounts A to D from 
November 2019 onwards;
Creation ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that account E and the 
credit limit increases on accounts A to D from November 2019 onwards were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr B and were unfairly and 
excessively increasing his overall indebtedness; 
Creation also acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B as a result of the 
delay in setting up a repayment plan on his accounts.
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that Creation unfairly and 
unreasonably provided Mr B with the credit card for account E and the credit limit increases 
on accounts A to D from November 2019 onwards.
Did Mr B lose out as a result of Creations shortcomings in relation to his accounts?
As Mr B had to pay a significant amount of interest and charges as a result of being provided 
with a substantial amount of additional credit which he couldnt afford, I think that he lost out 
because of what Creation did wrong. So Creation should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Creation to put things right by:
paying Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay in 
setting up a repayment plan for him. If Creation does not pay this £200 
compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision then it must also pay interest - 
at 8% a year simple - from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment. 
reworking accounts to A to D so that from November 2019 no interest should 
be charged on the amount of the credit limit increases from these dates 
onwards, to reflect the fact that no credit limit increases should have been provided on these accounts. All late payment and over limit fees should also 
be removed; and
reworking account E so that all interest, fees and charges added are 
removed, to reflect the fact that this account should never have been 
provided in the first place. All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed
AND
If outstanding balances remain on the accounts once these adjustments 
have been made Creation should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for these. If Creation considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Mr Bs credit file, it should backdate this to the 
respective date it shouldnt have provided an account or credit limit increase.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no 
longer being any outstanding balances, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have 
been made, to an account, then Creation should remove any adverse 
information recorded about that account from Mr Bs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Creation Financial Services 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive confirmed and set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman