DRN-3013731
The complaint
Mr R complains U K Insurance Limited, trading as Green Flag (UKI), didnt handle a call out 
properly under his roadside assistance policy.
Other parties have been involved in this complaint, but as UKI are responsible for it Ive just 
referred to them in this decision. 
What happened
On 18 August 2021 I issued my provisional decision. Ive copied what happened, and what I 
thought about that below  and it forms part of this final decision.
On 3 December 2020, Mr R found one of his tyres had been slashed  so he called UKI as 
he wanted the slashed tyre replaced with his spare. Mr R says when UKIs technician turned 
up he insisted on Mr R having new tyres fitted because the existing tyre was too old. But 
Mr R had recently had an MOT, and as a result of that had an appointment the following day 
to replace two tyres. He simply wanted the tyres swapped over so he could drive to this 
appointment. Mr R says UKIs technician refused to do this after speaking to the office, but 
only realised after removing the wheel nuts on the tyre. As he refused to change the tyre, he 
put them back on.
Mr R has explained the next day, in the bitter cold, he had to change the wheel nuts and 
found it extremely difficult because of how tight they were. He felt theyd been significantly 
tightened out of spite and had to borrow equipment in order to undo the nuts. 
He complained to UKI about these issues, and also explained his personal circumstances 
meant this was very difficult for him. He said to resolve matters he wanted to be able to 
cancel the policy without a charge and receive some compensation. 
I wont go into detail about Mr Rs circumstances but given what hes said hed be classed as 
someone whos vulnerable.
UKI said when on the scene the technician had begun taking the nuts off the tyre ready to 
replace it with the spare tyre  but then noticed it was below the legal limit for the tread, was 
bald, and therefore not safe to drive.  UKI said because of this he couldnt replace the tyre 
with the spare and offered to take Mr R to a garage, but he refused. They said although Mr R 
has said the technician commented the tyre was too old this wasnt mentioned to them. They 
said theyd contacted their technician and said the reason he wouldnt put the spare tyre on 
was because it was cracked around the perimeter and hardly had any tread on it. UKI said 
the technician had sent across photos showing itd be illegal to use. UKI added if Mr R were 
to cancel the policy, then an admin fee would need to be paid. 
Mr R also provided a copy of his MOT to UKI which he said showed there wasnt an issue 
with the tyre. UKI asked for a statement from the garage. Mr R interpreted this as UKI 
questioning his and the garages integrity  so said he wouldnt be doing that. Instead, he 
suggested UKI provide him with the evidence theyd received from the technician  the 
photos. And, a month later when this hadnt been received, he asked us to look into things. 
During the course of our investigator considering things, UKI told her there had been a 
second call out nine days after the first on 3 December 2020  and their second driver was 
reluctant to fit the tyre as it was in a barely legal state.
Ultimately, she was more persuaded by Mr Rs testimony  in part due to inaccurate 
information provided by UKI. She said Mr R had explained his MOT showed the tyre was 
roadworthy  and all UKI had from the time was a statement which said the tyre was illegal. 
But she couldnt see anything to show tyres on private cars were illegal if they were over a 
certain age  as Mr R alleges the technician said. She felt in the absence of anything to the 
contrary it was appropriate to uphold Mr Rs complaint regarding the service hed been 
given, and award him £100. She also said she thought the cancellation was fair.
Mr R replied and said he accepted the outcome reached. He also let us know hed 
subsequently paid the charge UKI levied for him cancelling the policy.
But UKI didnt agree with what our investigator said. They explained their position across a 
number of responses and in summary, they felt the tyre was illegal, so theyd acted correctly.
Despite our investigator explaining to them why she didnt agree on several occasions, they 
didnt accept this  so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the cancellation initially. The policy terms say if you cancel the policy after 
a call out then charges may apply. These appear to be correct, and Mr R has subsequently 
paid them. So, Ive seen nothing to suggest this isnt fair  and will move on to the key issue 
at hand.
UKIs technician in this case has been clear and consistent in saying they wouldnt fit a tyre 
thats illegal. I think thats a reasonable position to take in Mr Rs case. But he disputes the 
tyre was an illegal one. So, what I need to decide is whether UKIs technician has refused to 
fit a tyre he should have.
I wasnt present at the time, so I cant know for certain what happened. In these situations, I 
need to decide what I think is more likely than not, taking into account all of the information I 
do have.
UKIs technician has recorded spare tyre illegal so I have refused to put on vehicle.
This information doesnt provide enough detail to establish whether Mr R is correct  in 
saying the technician said they wouldnt fit the tyre because of its age  or that the technician 
is correct by saying theyve checked the tread. 
UKI told Mr R in January 2021 He has also sent across photographs of your tyre showing it 
to be illegal to use.. UKI used this as evidence for why the tread on the tyre wasnt legal. I 
can see when Mr R was asked about proving his position that the tyres were legal, he 
replied and provided his MOT as proof it was  and said he felt that was enough. But when 
Mr R asked for copies of the photos UKI had referred to they didnt reply to him or seemingly 
even acknowledge his request.
Given the photos would conclusively prove if the tread on the tyres was illegal, we asked UKI 
to provide them. Their initial response was to say theyd ask the technician for them  when Id expect them to have those photos. And in their second reply then theyve said the case 
handler made a mistake and they never had photos.
Its unclear then why UKI told Mr R in January 2021 He has also sent across photographs of 
your tyre showing it to be illegal to use.
UKI also said a second call out took place nine days later  which our investigator pointed 
out to them on multiple occasions was wrong and asked for their comments on this. No 
comments were provided.
I find these two elements to be extremely disappointing. Given Mr R was explicitly told the 
case handler had looked at the photos (which says they must have them, otherwise how 
could they have looked at them?), he might feel UKI have lied in order to try and argue their 
case.
I dont need to decide if they have or havent. But given this information, I do think this 
significantly undermines their argument that theyve acted fairly in this complaint.
 
Mr R has pointed to his MOT as evidence his spare tyre was in a roadworthy condition. The 
MOT took place around two months before the call out, and Mr R has said he rarely drove 
the car during this time.
Ive seen no reason to doubt what Mr R has said, and it sounds like an understandable 
explanation  so Ill be upholding this complaint.
Our investigator recommended £100, which Mr R accepted. But, given the issues Ive 
outlined above I dont think this goes far enough. Whether intentional or not, UKI have on 
two occasions provided seemingly misleading information which supported their case 
incorrectly. The first of these was to Mr R  and then they didnt reply to his challenge. So, 
thinking about all the circumstances, including Mr Rs vulnerabilities  I think a fairer amount 
is £250.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R replied and said in his view my provisional decision very fully covered whatd 
happened, so he had nothing to add. Ive interpreted this as Mr R accepting my provisional 
decision.
UKI replied and confirmed they also accepted my provisional decision.
As both parties replied promptly, Im able to now issue my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties have accepted my decision, I see no reason to change the outcome I 
reached in my provisional decision  £250 is fair compensation for the issues Mr R 
experienced.
My final decision
I uphold this case, and order U K Insurance Limited, trading as Green Flag, to pay Mr R 
£250 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman