DRN-2276629
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complain about Gladstone Brookes and their failure to submit Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) claims on the estates behalf before the PPI deadline.
What happened
On 3 July 2019, Mr H contacted Gladstone online to enquire about them pursuing claims for 
mis-sold PPI on his behalf. Gladstone sent out a welcome pack the next day, which included 
forms of authority (FOA) for Mr H to sign which allowed Gladstone to submit the claims.
Unfortunately, Mr H passed away in the days that followed. Gladstone attempted to contact 
Mr H on a number of occasions around this time to chase the FOAs, and left voicemails to 
that effect. But due to the circumstances the estate were experiencing, they didnt respond.
The estate say they sent the forms back to Gladstone at some point before the PPI deadline, 
which was on the 29 August 2019. So, they expected Gladstone to receive the forms and 
submit the claims on behalf of Mr Hs estate. But when they called Gladstone on 24 
February 2020 for an update, they were advised the FOAs hadnt been received. And 
because of this, no claims had been submitted. The estate were unhappy about this, so they 
raised a complaint.
The estate complained that Gladstone had failed to submit their claims. They thought theyd 
returned the FOAs before the PPI deadline, so didnt think Gladstone had acted fairly. They 
acknowledged there had been a delay in returning the forms but thought they should be 
given an exception to the deadline due to the circumstances surrounding Mr Hs passing. 
So, they either wanted the claims to be submitted or compensation for the estates loss of 
opportunity to make a claim.
Gladstone responded and upheld the complaint in part. They didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong when not submitting the claims, as no FOAs had been received before the 
PPI deadline. But they did recognise theyd chased Mr H for these forms around the time of 
his passing and recognised the upset this may have caused. So, they offered the estate 
£100 to recognise this. The estate remained unhappy with this as they didnt think it was fair 
to hold them responsible for issues with the postal system. As the estate remained unhappy, 
they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the difficulties 
the estate faced due to Mr Hs passing. And she also recognised they felt theyd sent the 
FOAs to Gladstone before the deadline. But she didnt think Gladstone had done anything 
wrong as without the FOAs, they were unable to submit the claims. So, she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. She also explained the estate could seek legal advice to see 
whether they could qualify for an exception to submit the claims due to the situation they 
found themselves.
The estate didnt agree as they felt they shouldve been allowed some leeway by Gladstone 
due to Mr Hs passing. So, they asked for the complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman 
and its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on the estate of Mr H. Ive no 
doubt the estate believed theyd provided Gladstone with the documents they needed to 
submit the PPI claims. So, when they were told the claims hadnt been submitted, I can 
understand why the estate felt like theyd loss an opportunity to claim. And I can appreciate 
the difficult circumstances those looking after the estate found themselves in, as they were 
grieving for Mr H following his passing. But for me to say Gladstone have done something 
wrong, Id need to see the claims failed to be submitted due to an error Gladstone made. So, 
Id need to see evidence they had all the required documents and failed to submit the claim 
when Id expect them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The complaint has been brought to us by the estate of Mr H, on Mr Hs behalf. I understand 
those administering the estate may have been caused upset by the complaint. But this isnt 
something Im able to consider. As Mr H was the potential customer of Gladstone, Im only 
able to consider upset caused to Mr H directly. But I can consider any financial losses the 
estate feels it has incurred from errors Gladstone may have made.
And I dont doubt the estate believes they sent the FOAs to Gladstone before the PPI 
deadline. Gladstone have confirmed a death certificate was received at the end of August, 
so I think its reasonable to assume the FOAs wouldve been sent around the same time. 
But I cant see from the evidence Ive been provided that they were received. I think its 
reasonable for me to assume that if they had been received by Gladstone, claims wouldve 
been submitted to the lenders. This is because Gladstone stood to benefit financially if the 
claims were upheld. So, I dont think it would make sense for the FOAs to be received and 
then not be sent.
Because of this, I think its most likely that the FOAs were sent and lost during the postal 
process. And I dont think its fair to hold Gladstone responsible for this. They had no way of 
controlling the postal process so it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say they should pay 
compensation to the estate to recognise an error they werent responsible for. So, I dont 
think they need to do anything more.
That being said, I do understand the estate also had no way of controlling this. But I also 
must consider the fact the documents were sent very close to the PPI deadline which left no 
room for error. I recognise this was also because of circumstances surrounding the passing 
of Mr H, which couldnt be controlled. But Gladstone are unable to alter the PPI deadline, 
which was set in law. And unfortunately, the deadline was missed on this occasion.
Ive seen Gladstone offered the estate £100 to recognise any upset caused by their attempts 
to contact them for the return of the FOAs around the time Mr H passed. As Ive explained, 
any upset caused to those managing the estate isnt something Im able to consider. But, its 
good to see Gladstone recognised the sensitivity of the situation and it remains the decision 
of the estate as to whether they accept this offer.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the estate of Mr Hs complaint about 
Gladstone Brookes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman