DRN-4369994
The complaint
A company, which Ill call B is complaining that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the 
money it lost in an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
B opened a business current account with Starling around 1 August 2022.
B wanted to buy some goods to sell, and decided on two suppliers it had found on an online 
commerce platform. B says it investigated both suppliers before it went ahead with 
transferring money to them and found them to be genuine companies. B also says it called 
Starling on 29 August 2022, before going ahead with the payments - and was assured that it 
would receive a refund if anything went wrong with the payments.
On 30 August 2022 B made an online payment of £1,292.87 to one of the suppliers. And on 
31 August 2022 B transferred £1,295.57 to the other supplier. Both were international 
payments  the first to a bank in Lithuania, and the second to a bank in Poland.
On 31 August 2022 B contacted Starling about the payment to the second supplier, as it 
thought it had been sent incorrectly. Starling initiated a recall request from the Polish bank. 
But B then asked Starling to halt the recall, as in the meantime B had received a message 
from the supplier confirming theyd received the funds.
On 1 September 2022 B was contacted by someone who said they were the company 
delivering the goods. They asked B to transfer money to them in order to pay various 
customs and insurance fees. B made four more payments to this company between 2 
September 2022 and 7 September 2022, totalling nearly £4,000.
On 8 September 2022, after not receiving the goods when expected, B realised it had been 
scammed. B called Starling to report the scam.
Starling acknowledged Bs report of fraud. They said they would investigate, and that they 
were contacting the receiving bank to try to recover the payments. But Starling didnt contact 
the receiving bank in Lithuania until 20 September 2022  and the receiving bank didnt 
reply. Starling had already attempted to recall the payment to the Polish bank after Bs 
request on 31 August 2022, but had been unsuccessful.
On 3 October 2022 Starling told B they couldnt recover the payments B had made. B 
complained, and Starling sent B their final response to the complaint on 7 November 2022.
They said, in summary, that they thought theyd done what they needed to do to try recover 
the payments. But they accepted they should have kept B better informed about the 
recovery attempt, and paid B £50.
B brought its complaint to us. It thought Starling should refund the money it had lost in the 
scam. Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt think Starling needed to do anything 
else. He said, in summary, that there hadnt been anything about the payments that would 
have caused Starling to intervene.
B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 September 2023. This is what I said.
Im sorry to learn about what happened to B. But at the moment I dont think that I can fairly 
say that Starling should refund the money B lost in the scam. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that B authorised the payments. And Starling have a duty to act on Bs 
instructions. But in some circumstances a bank should take a closer look at the 
circumstances of the payments  for example, if it ought to be alert to a fraud risk, because 
the transaction is unusual, or looks out of character or suspicious. And if so, the bank should 
intervene, usually by contacting the customer directly, before releasing the payments.
Its not in dispute that B was the victim of a scam. But B opened its account with Starling 
shortly before the first payment, so there wasnt a pattern of transactions for Starling to refer 
to, to see if these payments were out of character. This is a business account, and its not 
unreasonable that set up costs for a business would involve relatively high value 
transactions to suppliers of stock, possibly based abroad. So, I dont think Starling should 
have been alerted by the value of the payments, or the payees, as they werent unusual in 
this context. And as it was a new account, I dont think Starling should have been alerted by 
new payees being set up, as its natural this would happen after a new account has been 
opened.
B has told us it had a conversation with Starling the day before it made the first payment, as 
it was concerned about the potential for fraud. B says Starling told it that if the transactions 
were fraudulent, they would be able to process a chargeback and return the payments to Bs 
account. So, B says it relied on Starlings assurance it would get its money back if something 
went wrong. B says if Starling hadnt assured it of this, it wouldnt have made the payments. 
Starling havent been able to trace a recording of the call and they dont have any notes 
about it, but Bs sent us evidence of a call being made to Starling on the morning of 29 
August 2022 which lasted for seven minutes. Starling say that if B had been on hold waiting 
to speak to someone for the whole of that time, the call wouldnt have been recorded or 
show on their systems. But B has been clear and consistent in its account that the 
conversation took place. On balance Im persuaded its likely it did.
At the time of the call B hadnt made the payments, so Starling wouldnt have had any 
detailed information about them to be able to identify if it was likely they were fraudulent or 
not. They would only have been able to give B general advice about their approach  which 
does seem to be what theyve done, as B has specifically mentioned a chargeback, which 
relates to card payments rather than online payments. So, the advice wasnt specific to B's 
intended payment method. This could be because the intended payment method wasnt 
made clear to the adviser, or it could be that the adviser made a mistake in telling B the 
chargeback rules applied to online payments.So, Ive thought about what the position would likely have been if B had been told, correctly, 
that its not possible to do a chargeback on an online payment, and although a business 
would attempt to recover an online payment if something went wrong its not guaranteed to 
be refunded. And I dont think B would have done anything differently. I say this because B 
had correctly been cautious, had done some research, and was apparently satisfied that the 
suppliers were genuine companies before making the payments. Its also clear from the 
messages between the scammers and B, that B had been convinced by the conversation it 
had with them that they were genuine companies before it went ahead with the payments. 
And these messages took place after Bs call with Starling on 29 August 2022.
In other words, I dont think the conversation with Starling was the deciding factor in whether 
B went ahead with the payments, because I think B had been convinced the companies 
were genuine at the time the payments were made.
And at that time the payments B intended to make were to what it thought were suppliers of 
goods needed to start up Bs business  which B had researched online already. So, I dont 
think anything about Bs description of the intended payments would have given Starling 
cause for concern, such that they should have intervened at this point to warn B about the 
potential for fraud.
The payments B was then asked to make to pay to the delivery company for the goods to be 
released may have given Starling cause for concern, if theyd known about them, as this is a 
well-known scam. But Ive not seen anything to show B spoke to Starling about these 
particular payments, as B made all these payments online. So, I dont think Starling missed 
an opportunity to identify the scam while it was going on.
There are industry standards around attempting recovery of funds where a scam is reported. 
Starling should have attempted to recover Bs payments immediately on being told of the 
scam. I can see that this didnt happen here, and it took Starling around twelve days to 
contact the receiving bank to try to recover the funds.
Ive thought carefully about this but I dont think this makes a difference to the overall 
outcome. I say this because when Starling did contact the receiving bank, they didnt 
respond at all. And Ive no reason to think the receiving bank would have taken action to 
recover the funds if they had been contacted by Starling earlier. And Im also mindful that the 
scammers had had the payments for between 24 hours and ten days by the time B reported 
the scam to Starling. In most cases the funds would have already been removed from the 
receiving account in that time. Starling have paid B £50 for not keeping it informed about the 
progress of the recovery attempt, and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It's clear that B was an unfortunate victim of a scam, and I know this outcome will be very 
disappointing. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Starling should have 
done more to prevent Bs loss. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Starling to refund 
the payments B made.
I asked both parties to reply to my provisional decision with anything they wished to add 
before I issued my final decision by 18 September 2023.
Neither party replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and in the absence of any further evidence or comments from either party, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision not to uphold Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman