DRN-4258256
The complaint
Mr W complains Pensionhelp Limited gave him poor service in relation to the transfer of the 
benefits from his defined contribution with defined benefit (DB) underpin pension scheme 
into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Here, Ill set out the broad background to Mr Ws complaint against Pensionhelp. 
A firm Ill call C had been Mr Ws financial adviser since 2010. Mr W had various defined 
contribution (DC) pensions, including one with a DB underpin  Ill call this Mr Ws DB 
pension. 
In 2020, Mr W was interested in consolidating his pensions, and C didnt have the 
authorisation required by the regulator to advise Mr W about transferring his DB pension. So 
on 18 December 2020, C introduced Mr W to Pensionhelp for that advice. The cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) Mr W had received for his DB pension was £196,291.56, 
guaranteed until 10 February 2021. 
C advised Mr W about his DC pensions, valued at about £1,007,847 in total. Cs suitability 
report dated 6 January 2021 advised Mr W to consolidate them into a SIPP plan with a 
provider Ill call A, and invest in RSM model portfolio 6. The reference for this SIPP plan 
ended 193, and C provided details of SIPP plan 193 to Pensionhelp on 15 January 2021. 
Meanwhile, Pensionhelp took Mr W through its advice process. The fact find recorded that 
It was also explained that we may as a practical note, need to establish a new policy with 
[A], [Mr W] wanted to clarify this with [C] but I mentioned as I saw it, it was going to be 
difficult for us to work this any other way. 
On 3 February 2021, Pensionhelp provided Mr W with its full advice about his DB pension. 
Its suitability report advised him to transfer it to a SIPP with provider A and invest in RSM 
model portfolio 6, saying this was the ultimate destination for this transfer. It also said 
Please be aware that you do have pensions which are overall above the Lifetime 
Allowance. The maximum permissible tax free cash is 25% of the current Lifetime Allowance 
in force or remaining for you personally. It is my understanding you are going to manage the 
vesting of your other [A] policy with [C] going forward so please continue to seek advice in 
this area. And the suitability report said Pensionhelps advice fee was £5,888.75 and Mr W 
could choose to pay this himself or pay it from the fund value. 
Mr W accepted Pensionhelps advice to transfer his DB pension. Pensionhelp tried to set up 
a new SIPP with A into which to pay the transferred DB funds, but As system wouldnt allow 
this because Mr W already had SIPP plan 193 with A. On 8 February 2021 Pensionhelp 
asked A what the best course of action was, and Pensionhelp and A agreed a way for 
Pensionhelp to set up a new SIPP for Mr W with A that day  the reference for this new SIPP 
plan ended 568. 
Mr W says that following Cs advice to consolidate his DC pensions, he took his initial TFC 
on 18 February 2021.
On 11 March 2021, the funds from Mr Ws DB transfer were paid into SIPP plan 193. It 
seems Pensionhelp thought this was wrong as they should have been paid into SIPP plan 
568. So on 30 March 2021, A arranged for the funds to be moved to SIPP plan 568. 
However, the statements for SIPP plans 568 and 193 provided to our Service by A shows 
that Mr Ws DB transfer funds never moved to SIPP plan 568. Mr W says that he eventually 
took an income payment to help mitigate his LTA charge on 28 June 2021.
In the meantime, Pensionhelps adviser fee was incorrectly paid to C from SIPP plan 193. It 
seems C offered to pass this on to Pensionhelp but was told to return it to Mr Ws SIPP plan.
Through C, Mr W complained to Pensionhelp that it had interfered with the SIPP 
arrangement simply to facilitate getting its advice fee, and this unnecessarily delayed Mr W 
accessing his transferred DB funds  he planned to use TFC to buy an investment property 
and reinvest what was left. And he said Pensionhelp left his LTA charge ambiguous and 
unaddressed. He thought Pensionhelp should reimburse the advice fee hed paid it.
In response, Pensionhelp said it had to advise Mr W on the overall suitability of a DB transfer 
and this was a time-consuming process. That what Mr W saw as interference was done on 
As guidance, and Pensionhelp had acted in Mr Ws best interest, for example by saving him 
fund placement fees by arranging for C to do this work given it could access RSM model 
portfolio 6. Regarding Mr Ws LTA, Pensionhelp said Mr W hadnt accessed his pension 
benefits when it advised him, so it hadnt triggered an LTA charge and C was responsible for 
advising Mr W on his LTA in any case. Pensionhelp also thought C was responsible for any 
investment loss Mr W thought hed suffered. 
Mr W came to our Service. He said Pensionhelps rushed advice process had caused 
confusion. It had caused his transferred DB funds to be unnecessarily moved between two 
SIPPs with A simply so it could charge its fee, and this delayed him being able to access and 
invest those funds. He thought Pensionhelp had wasted two months altogether and was 
wrong to blame C and A. Later, Mr W also told us the transfer completed before the end of 
March 2021 so as to enable him to use his personal tax allowances for the 2020/21 tax year, 
but Pensionhelps errors took him into the 2021/22 tax year. When we asked Mr W in what 
way he thought Pensionhelps LTA advice was ambiguous and unaddressed, he said this 
was because its advice was generic and didnt advise him or his position. Mr W confirmed C 
had provided him with tax advice. 
Ultimately, our Investigators view was that Pensionhelp hadnt unnecessarily delayed its 
advice process, but could have asked Mr W to simply pay its advice fee separately, or 
accepted Cs offer to pass on the advice fee it was wrongly paid. And Pensionhelp should 
pay Mr W £300 compensation for the unnecessary frustration and inconvenience this caused 
him. But our Investigator thought Pensionhelp wasnt responsible for a financial loss here, 
because the property purchase Mr W wanted TFC for was at an early stage with nothing 
arranged and Mr W had alternative funding that could be explored. She thought 
Pensionhelps role here was solely to advise on the DB transfer, and it made sufficiently 
clear Mr W would exceed his LTA. She said Mr W could have gone back to Pensionhelp for 
further advice about his LTA, but C was on hand and providing Mr W with ongoing advice.
Mr W told us hed been forced to take unnecessary advice to access his own money. That 
Pensionhelp was incompetent and slow, and delayed him investing his transferred DB funds. 
That it had cost him considerable time, and his own professional rate was £250 an hour. And 
its advice had cost him almost £6,000 without delivering any benefits. Mr W thought £300 
compensation was derisory and Pensionhelp hadnt suffered any consequences. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans 
decision. Whilst that referral was underway, Mr W provided further emails between C and 
Pensionhelp which he thought showed C had introduced him to Pensionhelp sooner than 
previously acknowledged. Our Investigator shared these with Pensionhelp. It said they were 
only about Cs application to be a trusted introducer with Pensionhelp and didnt refer to 
Mr W. And while Mr W thought Pensionhelp arranged the transfer in such a way as to 
receive its fee, it wouldve received its fee regardless and was just following As instructions.
Our Investigator didnt change their position. So this complaint came to me for a decision. 
On 14 July 2023 I issued my provisional decision in which I explained why I intended to say 
that Pensionhelps recommendation for Mr W to transfer his DB funds to a new SIPP with A, 
instead of his existing SIPP, wasnt necessary and had caused Mr W some distress and 
inconvenience for which I thought £300 was fair and reasonable compensation. My 
provisional decision also explained why I intended to say I wasnt persuaded it caused Mr W 
any financial loss.
Mr W responded to my provisional decision. In summary, he was unhappy but didnt provide 
any new comments or evidence regarding the merits of his complaint against Pensionhelp 
for me to consider.
Pensionhelp also responded to my provisional decision. It agreed to pay £300 compensation 
to Mr W. But said it had needed to set up new SIPP 568 because on 2 February 2021 C had 
told it SIPP 193 was the preferred destination for Mr Ws transferred DB pension funds. And 
to arrange that, Pensionhelp would have needed to be the adviser recorded against SIPP 
193 but there wasnt time to put this in place before the CETV expiry date  because Mr W 
would have needed to provide a letter of authority and As processing time was between two 
and five days. So Pensionhelp asked C whether to use existing SIPP 193 and risk missing 
the CETV deadline or set up a new SIPP and meet the CETV deadline. And C chose to 
prioritise meeting the CETV deadline and merge the SIPPs later. Pensionhelp also said any 
subsequent confusion regarding payment of its fee was caused by A, who didnt follow its 
own process.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision, and Im now in a position to make 
my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In this decision, I wont consider whether Pensionhelps advice to transfer was suitable, 
because thats not a complaint point Mr W has raised. So I make no findings about the 
suitability of that advice. However, I will need to refer to the advice within this decision. 
I acknowledge Mr W feels strongly that he was unnecessarily compelled to get advice from 
Pensionhelp, as hes able to make his own decisions about his money. But I dont think Pensionhelp did anything wrong on this point. Its a regulatory requirement for a consumer 
transferring benefits worth more than £30,000 from a DB scheme to take independent 
advice. And because C wasnt authorised by the regulator to advise on DB transfers, C 
introduced Mr W to Pensionhelp for this advice instead. 
I accept that the evidence Ive been provided with shows C was in touch with Pensionhelp in 
November and early December 2020. But was C applying to be one of Pensionhelps 
trusted introducers  it seems Pensionhelp wouldnt accept any introductions unless and 
until it had accepted a firms application to be a trusted introducer, and I think its entitled to 
make this commercial decision. On 7 December 2020, Pensionhelp emailed C to say it had 
accepted C as a trusted introducer and C must submit any new cases through Pensionhelps 
website. Based on the evidence Ive been provided with, Im satisfied this submission about 
Mr W and his need for advice was made to Pensionhelp on 18 December 2020.
Its important to note that theres always some necessary uncertainty and inconvenience 
when looking at transferring DB pension scheme benefits. Its a time-consuming process in 
which a lot of information has to be gathered and considered, for good reason. And theres 
no guarantee that the final recommendation will be what the consumer hopes for. 
In this case, by the time Mr W was introduced to Pensionhelp on 18 December 2020, his 
CETV had less than two months of the three-month guaranteed period remaining before 
expiration. And Pensionhelp needed to gather information, including from Mr W, and this 
would necessarily take time. It was reasonable for Pensionhelp to do this and to then 
properly review the information. I can see that at the end of its advice process, Pensionhelp 
needed to ask Mr W for copies of discharge forms. Based on what Ive seen, these hadnt 
previously been provided to Pensionhelp, but this matter was resolved within a few days, by 
Mr W providing Pensionhelp with copies of the forms. And I note Pensionhelp completed its 
advice process in time to secure Mr Ws CETV, due to expire on 10 February 2021. Taking 
everything into account, Ive not seen that Pensionhelp caused any significant unnecessary 
delays during its advice process. 
I understand Mr W thinks Pensionhelp should refund the advice fee he paid it, and that he 
didnt get any benefit from paying this fee. But the Pensionhelp client agreement Mr W 
signed made clear Pensionhelp was charging this fee for providing advice on his DB scheme 
transfer. And Pensionhelp did provide Mr W with advice, following which he transferred his 
DB scheme benefits. Its not the case that Mr W could have got advice about transferring his 
DB pension without paying an adviser fee. So I dont think Pensionhelp needs to reimburse 
Mr W for its advice fee, as thats something he would always have paid. 
That said, I think Pensionhelp could and should have given Mr W better customer service 
when it was arranging for the funds from his DB pension to be transferred to a SIPP. I note 
Pensionhelp argued it was simply following As instructions. But it seems Pensionhelp 
intended to set up a new SIPP from an early stage. Its fact find recorded that it had 
explained to Mr W that it might need to set up a new SIPP with A for practicality, and that 
Mr W was unsure about that. But neither Pensionhelps fact find nor its suitability report 
explained what this practicality was. And given Mr Ws overarching objective was to 
consolidate his pensions, setting up another SIPP, even if it was with the same provider, 
didnt help him achieve that.
On 15 January 2021 C emailed Pensionhelp details of existing SIPP plan 193 that Mr Ws 
DC pensions were being consolidated into. I cant see that there was any benefit to Mr W in 
Pensionhelp setting up new, second SIPP plan 568 when it knew Mr W already had SIPP 
plan 193 with the same provider. I say that because Pensionhelps suitability report recorded 
that Mr Ws funds would ultimately move into the same SIPP and investment portfolio his DC 
pensions has been switched to  which was SIPP plan 193. This further demonstrates that there was no barrier to Pensionhelp transferring the DB scheme funds into SIPP plan 193 
from the outset. However, based on the statements provided to me by A, Im satisfied Mr W 
didnt pay any SIPP charges or fees for SIPP plan 568. And A has confirmed that the adviser 
recorded on SIPP plan 568 was changed from Pensionhelp to C on 14 October 2021 after 
this SIPP became inactive - although its not been closed.
Also, its clear Pensionhelp didnt have access to the RSM model portfolio 6 it had 
recommended Mr W invest his transferred DB funds into within his SIPP. So, it couldnt 
make this investment without charging Mr W additional fees per fund in the portfolio. C 
agreed to place these investments instead, as it had access to the RSM model portfolio 6 
model within SIPP plan 193 and could do so without charging Mr W for this. So, I think 
Pensionhelp setting up new, second SIPP plan 568 introduced the opportunity for confusion 
and delay about where the transferred DB funds should be, which is what then happened. 
Instead, I think Pensionhelp could and should have arranged for the transferred DB funds to 
be paid into Mr Ws existing SIPP plan 193. If it had done this, then the DB funds would have 
reached the SIPP on 11 March 2021, as this is what happened anyway before the confusion 
about where these funds should be occurred. And Pensionhelp could simply have invoiced 
Mr W for its advice fee directly instead of having this paid from the funds in his SIPP, since 
its suitability report says Mr W could choose to pay Pensionhelps adviser charge himself.  
Pensionhelp now says it needed to set up new SIPP 568 because it couldnt transfer Mr Ws 
DB pension funds directly to SIPP 193 without being the adviser recorded against that SIPP 
and there wasnt time to arrange this. But Mr Ws DB pension funds were in fact transferred 
to SIPP 193 without Pensionhelp being the recorded adviser. And if the recorded adviser did 
need to change, then I think its likely that, given the circumstances, Pensionhelp would have 
been able to expedite this with Mr W and A before the CETV expired, as it was able to do 
with other issues that arose. 
I know Mr W suggests Pensionhelp should compensate him for his time in line with his 
professional hourly rate. But I dont think this is a fair approach for compensating Mr W for 
the impact of Pensionhelps mistake, as I will go on to address below. And in any event, 
Mr W is bringing this complaint in his personal capacity and not his professional capacity. 
Mr W also thinks Pensionhelp should face consequences. But I must be clear that its not the 
role of our Service to punish businesses when they make errors. Instead, our Services 
approach is to consider whether those errors caused the consumer any unnecessary 
distress, inconvenience and financial loss. So Ive considered this for Mr Ws complaint 
against Pensionhelp.
Im satisfied Pensionhelp caused Mr W some unnecessary frustration and uncertainty about 
which SIPP the funds transferred from his DB pension should be in. However, Im mindful 
this was over a relatively short period of time, given that the uncertainty about this seems to 
have been resolved between Pensionhelp and C by early May 2021. I say that because on 
6 May 2021 Pensionhelp emailed C to ask it for a screenshot showing the amount and date 
the transfer funds were applied to [Mr Ws] policy (Transaction Summary) and a screenshot 
showing the transfer funds invested as per our advice into the RSM Model Portfolio 6. Cs 
reply provided evidence of the transfer in and said that once TFC was paid and the LTA 
charge calculated, it would send Pensionhelp further details. Cs email also said Pensionhelp 
had mistakenly ticked that there was sufficient LTA which wasnt the case and I have been 
asked to correct the [TFC] documentation. I have written to [Mr W] to explain and sent him 
my provisional calculations. When [A] complete their work I will copy you in. 
Im also mindful that adviser C likely shielded Mr W from at least some of the unnecessary 
inconvenience Pensionhelp caused. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Pensionhelp 
caused Mr W.  
Mr W says Pensionhelps errors unnecessarily delayed him being able to access TFC from 
the DB funds that were transferred, and so he lost the opportunity to purchase an investment 
property hed planned to use the TFC for. But from what Mr W has told us about this, it 
seems that while hed agreed a price for the property, there wasnt yet any formal agreement 
in place. So it seems this purchase was at an early stage. And I think Mr W had other ways 
of funding this purchase that could have been explored if hed wanted, albeit he might have 
found these less attractive than using his TFC. Given all this, Im not persuaded any error by 
Pensionhelp was the cause of this particular property purchase not going ahead. 
Mr W also suggests Pensionhelps errors caused him loss of investment growth by 
unnecessarily delaying the remainder of his DB funds from being reinvested in his SIPP 
plans RSM model portfolio 6. 
But as I say, the funds from Mr Ws DB transfer were paid into SIPP plan 193 on 11 March 
2021 and stayed there. And the uncertainty about where the DB funds would end up was 
resolved between Pensionhelp and C by early May 2021. Pensionhelp emailed C on 6 May 
2021, 20 May 2021, 7 June 2021, and 24 June 2021 to ask for screenshots to show C had 
invested Mr Ws transferred DB funds into the RSM model portfolio 6. On 24 June 2021, C 
replied to essentially raise a complaint on Mr Ws behalf. Cs email said that Pensionhelps 
interference in the SIPP meant things had taken longer than they should and werent yet 
concluded  C was working to resolve what it said was the unaddressed LTA charge left 
ambiguous in Pensionhelps advice, and Mr W hadnt been able to take benefits or reinvest 
the residual funds. And that when this was resolved C would update Pensionhelp as 
appropriate. 
Ive been provided with statements for SIPP plan 193. From these, I can see that after 
Mr Ws DC pensions were transferred in across January and February 2021, fund 
investments totalling a very significant amount were purchased in February 2021. Mr Ws DB 
funds were then transferred into SIPP plan 193 on 11 March 2021 and, apart from fees and 
charges, nothing was paid out of SIPP plan 193 until 28 June 2021 when a number of lump 
sums totalling about £87,000 were paid  these were for tax payments as well as what 
appears to be cash of £10,057.01 to Mr W. And no significant fund investments were 
purchased until 9 December 2021. Taking all this into account, I think Mr Ws DB funds could 
have been reinvested sooner if that was something Mr W had wanted to do at that particular 
time. And Im not persuaded that any investment loss Mr W thinks hes suffered was caused 
by Pensionhelp. Ultimately the funds were in his SIPP plan 193 from 11 March 2021 and 
only C was permitted to make the investments as it was the servicing agent, not 
Pensionhelp.
Mr W agrees with Cs view that Pensionhelps advice left his LTA charge ambiguous and 
unaddressed. When we asked Mr W in what way, Mr W said Pensionhelps advice was 
generic and didnt advise him or his position. 
But I think Pensionhelp made it reasonably clear to Mr W that it would only be advising him 
about transferring his DB scheme, and that Pensionhelps understanding was that Mr W was 
being advised by C for all other financial matters, but could return to Pensionhelp if that 
wasnt the case. I say that because Pensionhelps fact find recorded that Client confirmed 
all his other schemes will be combined in the future and [C] to deal with that. [DB scheme] is 
the only one were reviewing., and The tax free cash position will be taken with [Cs] help 
on the DCs that he is managing (factoring in LTA limits). We will however take max tax free 
cash on the pension under review. Further, Pensionhelps suitability report said You have been introduced to us by [C]. We are 
a provider of specialist pension advice, we will review your circumstances and objectives 
and provide you with limited advice. Please refer all other financial planning queries to [C]. 
And the suitability report said Please be aware that you do have pensions which are overall 
above the Lifetime Allowance. The maximum permissible tax free cash is 25% of the current 
Lifetime Allowance in force or remaining for you personally. It is my understanding you are 
going to manage the vesting of your other [A] policy with [C] going forward so please 
continue to seek advice in this area.  
The suitability report also included a section titled Lifetime Allowance which said You do 
not have any protection, and would not be eligible to claim such protections, and so you will 
be subject to the standard LTA of £1,073,100. Whether you stay with the current scheme or 
transfer as your current pension benefits are now around £1m you will likely incur a Lifetime 
Allowance even if you remained in scheme as the reality is you would not vest the scheme 
directly if you did. It is my understanding from our conversation this has been part of a 
detailed discussion with [C] and you understand there will be charges incurred, if this is not 
the case please contact me. 
Despite making reasonably clear that it was only advising him on his DB transfer and it 
understood C would advise Mr W on his other financial matters, I think Pensionhelp 
nonetheless gave Mr W some reasonably clear information about his LTA position.  In 
addition to what Ive set out above, Pensionhelps advice documents included a section titled 
Lifetime Allowance which provided general information about any potential tax liability 
created by the size of his fund either now or in the future, and actions that would trigger it. 
Pensionhelps fact find said [Mr W] has contributed to a pension since 5th April 2016 so 
factoring in growth he will not be eligible for LTA [lifetime allowance] protection.
And Pensionhelps advice documents said I have included an estimation of the LTA charge 
you could face if you crystallised the entirety of your pensions immediately following 
transfer. This is to be considered an estimation only. The actual charge you incur is likely to 
vary considerably and will depend on the prevailing LTA limit, growth rates in your pension 
and charges.
Mr W has confirmed C had provided him with tax advice. And from what Mr W says, he first 
began accessing his pension benefits after Pensionhelp provided its advice on 3 February 
2021 - he says that following Cs advice to consolidate his DC pensions, he took his initial 
TFC on 18 February 2021. And that from the subsequent transfer in, he eventually took an 
income payment to help mitigate the tax liability of the LTA charge on 28 June 2021.
I acknowledge C thought that while completing the DB transfer paperwork, Pensionhelp had 
incorrectly stated Mr W had sufficient LTA and this wasnt the case. Cs email to Pensionhelp 
on 5 May 2021 went on to say C had therefore been asked to correct the TFC documents 
and had updated Mr W about this and given him provisional calculations. But taking 
everything into account, Ive not seen enough evidence to fairly conclude that Pensionhelp 
caused Mr W any detriment in respect of his LTA charge.
I also acknowledge Mr W says the transfer completed before the end of March 2021 so he 
could use his personal tax allowances for the 2020/21 tax year, but Pensionhelps errors 
took him into the 2021/22 tax year. However, as Ive set out above, the transfer of Mr Ws 
DB funds completed on 11 March 2021, before the end of the financial year. So, Im not 
persuaded that this ultimately caused him any detriment, and Mr W also hasnt said in what 
way he was disadvantaged by this.
Overall, I think Pensionhelps recommendation that Mr W transfer his DB funds to a new 
SIPP with A, instead of his existing SIPP, wasnt necessary and as such, this has caused him some distress and inconvenience. But based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded this 
caused him any other financial loss.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Pensionhelp has caused Mr W a financial loss. 
However, Im satisfied Pensionhelp caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience, 
and that £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for that. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Pensionhelp Limited should pay 
Mr W £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman