DRN-2232882
The complaint
Ms A complains that TSB Bank plc declined her application for a credit card.
 
What happened
Ms A applied online for a balance transfer credit card with TSB. But she received a response 
to say that it wasnt able to offer her the card. It said that it had taken into account her 
personal circumstances and whether it was willing to accept the financial risk in reaching this 
decision.
Ms A appealed the decision. She gave more information about her circumstances and said 
that shed made a mistake in her application regarding her income. She said she wanted this 
card to transfer a balance from another credit card, not because she needed more credit. 
However, TSB said that it was unable to review the application as Ms A had said shed used 
incorrect figures in it. It suggested that she reapply with the correct figures. 
Ms A complained. She said TSB had no valid reason to decline her application because she 
had an excellent credit score with credit reference agencies; she gave correct information in 
about her financial circumstances; she didnt need to use extra credit for spending, but had 
wanted to transfer balances from other credit cards; and had only used 23% of her available 
credit. Ms A felt TSB had made an obvious error and possibly attached information relating 
to another applicant to her details. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that businesses were entitled to make a commercial decision about whether to offer a 
customer credit facilities and what criteria is used when considering an application. 
The investigator said TSB had considered the information Ms A had given and, in her appeal 
of the decline, she had said that shed make a mistake in the information shed put about her 
income. The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable of TSB to ask her to reapply with 
the correct information if she wished. He said there was no reason to doubt that Ms As 
circumstances didnt meet the criteria TSB had set for assessing her application, given that 
shed put incorrect details about her income.
 
Ms A didnt accept the investigators findings. She felt hed missed a crucial piece of 
evidence in not understanding that TSB refused her initial application based on her stated 
income. She said it had no bearing that shed later said that shed made a mistake and her 
income was higher. Ms A felt the investigator had misunderstood as the whole point was that 
TSB didnt have a valid reason to decline her initial application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Ms As upset and confusion about being declined for this credit card, when 
she felt she had an excellent credit rating.
However, TSB confirmed that it assessed Ms As application taking into account a number of 
factors including the information shed given and that from credit reference agencies, and 
from this it decided that it wasnt willing to offer Ms A a credit card  a decision it is entitled to 
make. 
In submitting her appeal of this decision, Ms A said that she had made a mistake in the 
details of her income and gave the details of how her income was made up and what the 
amounts were. 
Ive compared what she said with the information Ive seen on her original application. The 
application shows Ms A wasnt working and lived by independent means. However, it shows 
a figure for her income source under the salary/wages section only  it doesnt detail this to 
be from benefits; rental income and maintenance which she clarified in her appeal.
While I appreciate that Ms A may feel that TSB should review her original application with 
these clarified details of the sources and amount of her income, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of TSB to ask her to submit another application setting out the correct details, 
if she would like this to be assessed. 
I also dont think it was the case that TSB gave the reason for the original decline to be 
because Ms A had told it that shed made a mistake in the details on her application. I think it 
was more that TSB said that it was unable to review the decision to decline that application 
because of these incorrect details.
Overall, I dont think TSB has acted unfairly or unreasonably with Ms As credit card 
application. I can understand why she may feel that the decision to decline it was wrong 
because of her personal and financial circumstances, however it is for TSB to decide 
whether it is willing to offer a potential customer a credit facility. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman