DRN-3556232
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim 
for a damaged ring under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) admitted that there were shortfalls in its 
handling of the claim Mrs M made in February 2021. It apologised and offered her £500 in 
compensation. In addition, it has agreed to a quote that she provided for the remount of her 
ring of £1640.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. She recommended that Mrs M 
was paid an additional £250 in compensation. RSA agreed but Mrs M didnt. The facts are 
not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that accidentally damaging her engagement ring has been a very traumatic 
experience for Mrs M and this has been compounded by the actions of RSA and its 
agents. Ive considered the history of the matter, the time taken and the 
representations made. Ive particularly noted the representations of Mrs M, explaining 
the impact this claim has had. Im pleased to note that RSA agreed that 
compensation was due. However I agree with our investigator that the offer was low 
considering the significant distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs M. 
Im satisfied that a further £250 is justified, in particular for Mrs Ms very negative 
experience with the initial jewellers, Ill call B. It is not in dispute that they mis-coded 
the diamonds, made the mount in the wrong metal and not to the same design, and 
in the wrong size. RSAs suppliers did make reasonable offers to put things right, but 
understandably Mrs M had lost all confidence and the relationship with the supplier 
had by then broken down. Accordingly RSA agreed to honour a quotation from a 
jeweller of Mrs Ms choosing. I find this was fair.
Mrs M submitted two quotes. I understand that she would like RSA to pay the greater 
of the two submitted for the repair of her ring - £2000. However Im satisfied it was 
reasonable of RSA, and in accordance with usual practice, to agree to the most 
competitive quote which was £1640. 
I accept that RSA isnt responsible for the delay whilst Mrs M was obtaining quotes. 
Nevertheless there were delays in authorising the original repairs and the claim 
overall wasnt handled as speedily as it could have been. Further had the original 
repair been satisfactory the process could have been concluded more expediently. 
As it is Mrs M is still without her ring.
I recognise that Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision as she feels more 
compensation is due to her. It is difficult to put a figure on the distress that this matter 
has caused her but considering all the submissions made and the timeline of the 
matter I find that £750 in total is fair. I understand that £500 has already been 
credited to Mrs Ms account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mrs M a further £250 in compensation 
Pay Mrs M £1640 (the lower quote for the repair of her ring)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman