DRN-3344176
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his car insurer Hastings Insurance Services Limited as, following 
his cancellation of his policy, it sent an amount for debt collection which he believed had 
been subject of a repayment plan. 
What happened
Mr H cancelled his policy with Hastings. He was told there would be a charge of £125.42 to 
pay. Mr H said hed call when he was paid to clear it. He then told Hastings he couldnt pay it 
all in one go. He said he wanted to pay £5 a month. He was initially told this couldnt be done 
as the repayment period would need to be six months, and the outstanding amount wouldnt 
be cleared in that time. But Hastings advisor then agreed to a plan whereby Mr H would pay 
£5 over the next six months, starting on 7 November 2020 and then the remaining 
outstanding sum, along with how/when this would be repaid, would be reviewed. Mr H paid 
Hastings £1.00. The next day, 19 October 2020, Hastings told Mr H there had been an error, 
this plan was not acceptable to it. Mr H replied stating an agreement had been made.
Mr H didnt make any other arrangement to pay Hastings. He received a letter requesting 
payment of the outstanding amount. 
Hastings wrote to Mr H on 9 December 2020. It accepted it had caused confusion during the 
phone call. It said it would call the debt back from its collection team to allow a payment plan 
to be arranged. And it offered £30 compensation for the upset caused by the incorrect 
advice. But it maintained that Mr H paying it £5 a month was unacceptable. Hastings told 
Mr H what it would be prepared to accept and what he could do if that wasnt manageable 
for him. 
Mr H complained to this service. He said he felt Hastings had failed him and it should now 
write-off the full outstanding amount.
Our Investigator noted that whilst Hastings had made a mistake it had corrected it quickly. 
And that despite Mr H having insisted on Hastings agreeing to let him pay £5 a month, at the 
point our investigator sent his assessment of the complaint, Mr H hadnt even paid that sum. 
Our investigator didnt think it would be reasonable to make Hastings do anything more.
Mr H wanted to know if we had listened to the call where he had been misled by Hastings. 
Our Investigator obtained the call, listened to it and confirmed to Mr H this didnt change his 
view. He said the key point was that Hastings had quickly corrected the mistake made in that 
call. Mr H asked for an Ombudsmans consideration. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr H was misled by Hastings advisor. I note from listening to the call that, 
initially, the advisor gave Mr H the right answer  that Hastings would not agree to him 
paying just £5 a month to clear the debt. But that, unfortunately, the advisor seemed to come 
round to the idea that it would be ok for £5 a month for six-months to be agreed as some 
kind of initial plan. I really dont know why he came to that conclusion and, because he did, 
Mr H was led to believe that arrangement was in place. Hastings failed Mr H here. 
But just because Hastings failed Mr H, doesnt mean it should consequently write-off the 
money Mr H owed it. The £125.42 that became due at cancellation (reduced to £124.42 by a 
payment of £1.00 by Mr H) was in part made up of the premium owed for the time Mr H had 
received the benefit of the cover from his policy. The rest was for other charges due and 
owing. Hastings was entitled to charge that sum. And just because it failed Mr H in relation to 
agreeing the payment plan for the sum owed, doesnt mean the sum is no longer fairly owed. 
Of course, Hastings cant reasonably cause upset to its policyholder/former policyholder and 
do nothing to make up for that. But Hastings hasnt tried to do that here. Rather Hastings has 
acknowledged its error, called the debt back so a plan acceptable to both parties can be 
made and offered £30 compensation. Which I understand it has applied as a credit against 
the outstanding debt (£124.42 has become £94.42). In the circumstances, particularly as its 
initial error was corrected within a day and Mr H was given reasonable options at that time 
as to how to resolve the debt, I think Hastings acted fairly and reasonably. Im not minded to 
make it do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman