DRN-2683921
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined their claim for 
accidental damage under their home insurance policy.
References to Lloyds include its agents. 
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr and Mrs A tried to make a claim under their home insurance (contents) 
policy with Lloyds. Mrs A says she was about to paint her banister when she fell down the 
stairs, taking the paint with her. The paint spilled onto the carpet and her dog also ran 
through the paint causing further damage to the carpet, floor and furniture. 
Lloyds appointed loss adjusters to interview Mrs A and investigate the claim. Lloyds says 
forensic experts viewed the paint damage and concluded that the spillage couldnt have 
occurred as Mrs A had described. The loss adjuster reported inconsistencies in Mrs As 
version of events. 
Lloyds declined the claim, invoking the fraud condition within the policy. It cancelled Mr and 
Mrs As insurance policy back to the date of the claim.
Mrs A complained to Lloyds, but it stood by its decision to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy. So, Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She thought 
that Lloyds had acted fairly, within the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our investigators view. Mrs A said she hadnt embellished any 
of the damage. She has chronic mental health problems which have been made worse 
during her time explaining the incident. The timings might have been off, but she couldnt 
remember the timeline. She said the difference in timings from the photographs might be 
explained by her taking screenshots, rather than the original photos.
 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
In declining the claim and cancelling Mr and Mrs As policy, Lloyds have referred to the 
policys terms and conditions which state that if a policyholder knowingly or recklessly 
provides information or documentation to (Lloyds) that is fraudulent or dishonestly 
exaggerates a claim then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent 
act and (Lloyds):
will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim;
will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act;
will retain any premium (the policyholder has) paid
Its important to explain it isnt for me to decide whether Mrs A acted fraudulently or 
exaggerated her claim. Instead, Ive needed to consider if Lloyds decision to invoke the 
fraud condition in this case was reasonable, based on the information it had at the time.
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy, the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. Having reviewed 
the information provided in this case, Im satisfied Lloyds conducted a fair and reasonable 
review of the claim and didnt act unreasonably in saying the fraud condition was breached  
in light of the evidence it received. 
Lloyds says it identified a number of discrepancies and concerns from Mrs As accounts of 
what happened, the photographs she provided and inspection reports. 
Ive listened to recordings of telephone conversations Mrs A had with Lloyds when she first 
reported the incident and around a week later (on 7 July 2020) when she was asked some 
further questions about it. 
In the telephone conversation of 7 July 2020, Mrs A said shed scooped up the paint and put 
it back in the tin. After calling Lloyds and taking photographs, she went for a lie down. When 
she came back downstairs, the dog ran though the paint. 
In Mrs As witness statement (dated 14 August 2020) she said: The incident occurred a long 
time ago now so I cant recall the exact time that I took a lie down but I believe it was after 
the dog had damaged the sofa, chairs and flooring in the kitchen.
Mrs A has made us and Lloyds aware that she suffers from mental health difficulties. She 
says that these have worsened during her time explaining the incident. I dont doubt that this 
has been a very distressing experience for Mrs A. And I accept its possible that some of the 
inconsistencies in Mrs As version of events might be explained by her not clearly 
remembering the timings. So, Ive gone on to consider Lloyds other concerns, and whether, 
given these concerns and the evidence received, it came to a fair decision. 
Lloyds says that having reviewed the photographs, it has concerns over the way the paint 
had spilled out of the paint pot as it did not appear consistent with Mrs As explanation. Its 
also provided comments from a forensic scientist who reviewed the photographs Mrs A had 
provided. 
The forensic scientist says: it is difficult to explain the three discrete areas of thick paint on 
the carpet in Photograph 1, even if the pot rolled. Theyve gone on to comment that the 
appearance of the thick paint areas suggests the paint was poured out and that a more 
minor accidental spill may have been embellished for the photograph by pouring out thick 
paint on top after a clean-up attempt.
  
Lloyds has also commented that this particular photo appears to be before any attempt had 
been made to clean up the paint but there are dog paw prints in it. Ive seen the relevant 
photo. It shows three thick pools of paint and it doesnt look like any has been scooped up. I 
can see what appear to be paw prints on the carpet next to it. While Mrs A might not 
remember the exact timeline of events, in her call with Lloyds (on 7 July) and in her witness 
statement shes indicated that the dog ran through the paint after shed attempted to clean it up. So, I can see why Lloyds were concerned about the photo conflicting with Mrs As 
explanation of what had happened.
The forensic scientist has also commented that there is a trail of fading paw prints between 
the paint spilled in the hallway and lounge entrance and the sofa. Theyve said the fading of 
prints in this manner with successive steps is normal. But the paw prints that appear on the 
footstool and recliner chair are much more pronounced. The forensic scientist has given their 
opinion that the paw prints on the footstool and recliner chair have the appearance of 
having been added post incident after one or more paws was recoated in paint. And so, 
they felt at least some of the damage to the property hadnt been caused in the way 
described. Having looked at the photos, I can also see why this was of concern to Lloyds. 
The expert had highlighted the paint on the footstool and recliner chair appears to be more 
prominent than the paw prints on the carpet near them, and the photographs do appear 
consistent with this. 
Mrs A strongly denies embellishing the incident. And as above, it isnt for me to decide 
whether this was the case. But having reviewed the photographs alongside the evidence 
from the forensic expert, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the expert evidence it 
received and conclude the fraud condition of the policy had been breached. While there may 
have been an incident involving paint being spilled, the expert clearly suggests the claim was 
likely to have been fraudulently exaggerated. In these circumstances, in line with the policy 
terms, Lloyds is able to refuse an entire claim even if parts of it were genuine.  It is also 
entitled to cancel the policy back from the date of the fraudulent act and keep the full 
premium. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs A and this is likely to be particularly difficult 
for her. But overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman