DRN-3625542
The complaint
The executors for Mr Ms estate complain about advice he received from Investec Wealth & 
Investment Limited when he set up an offshore investment bond. The bond was gifted to a 
trust after being set up. Mr Ms executors are also the trustees for that trust. 
What happened
The advice here was summed up in a letter Investec wrote to Mr M in 2007. Mr M wanted to 
reduce the inheritance tax his estate would have to pay when he died. Investec 
recommended a bond held in a discounted gift trust. Mr M set that up in 2008. 
The discounted gift trust was set to return 5% of the amount Mr M had invested to him each 
year. But after Mr M died in 2019, the executors for his estate were surprised that these 
withdrawals counted towards the value of the investment for tax calculations. 
Rather than the investment producing about a £40,000 gain in value over the years, itll be 
seen to have gained closer to £140,000. 
In response to the executors complaint, Investec felt their advice to Mr M had been clear 
about what the investment was and how it would work. But they noted that in 2012 theyd 
told Mr M that their commission would be treated as a fee for providing him ongoing advice. 
Investec saw they hadnt given Mr M this advice, so they offered to refund the fee. They also 
offered Mr Ms executors £250 for any trouble and upset caused. 
Mr Ms executors didnt accept that resolved their complaint, so they brought it to us. They 
also raised some general issues about the documents and correspondence from 2006 to 
2008, that they felt showed things werent as they should be. 
Our investigator looked at the documents from the time, and considered what Investec had 
done to assess and meet Mr Ms objectives. She felt Investec had met Mr Ms objectives at 
the time in a reasonable way. And she felt enough had been done to explain how tax might 
apply to the investment in the future. But she agreed with Investec that they shouldnt have 
taken an advice fee without providing advice to Mr M. She said the refund for that should 
include a payment to represent the return that the fee would have achieved, if it had 
remained invested. 
The executors for Mr Ms estate didnt agree with that view, so the case has come to me for 
a formal decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that the remedy Investec agreed with our investigator will be enough 
to put things right. Ill briefly explain my reasoning. 
At its heart, this is a complaint about how income tax applies to the money Mr M invested 
now the trustees plan to encash it. 
Investecs letter to Mr M in August 2007 did explain what would happen:
When the investment is encashed there will be a potential tax liability, based on any 
gain at the rate payable by the trust, currently 40%. However, if the trustees assign 
the bond to default beneficiaries, any gain would fall on the beneficiaries and any 
gain would therefore be charged at their marginal rate of tax - which permits a degree 
of flexibility to manage any potential tax liability.
What isnt covered in detail is how the gain would be calculated. Mr Ms investment here 
began with £175,000. Its value  if encashed at the time of the complaint  would have been 
around £220,000. And over the years prior to that Mr M had received about £95,000. 
In simple terms, the investments gain is calculated as what came out  £220,000 if 
encashed, plus the £95,000 Mr M had received  minus what went in  £175,000. That 
comes to the roughly £140,000 mentioned in the complaint  £315,000 minus £175,000. 
Its worth noting that its not the original invested amount thats taxed  its the gain. That tax 
isnt created as a result of the payments made to Mr M. If hed received nothing from the 
trust instead, itd still have as much tax to pay. Itd just have £95,000 more to pay it with. 
Thats ultimately where I disagree with the complaint Mr Ms executors  also the trustees 
now holding the investment  raised. In an email to Investec following the complaint 
response, they wrote:
The sales emphasis was totally on dealing with IHT and still having some income 
which when one is 84 years old has an appeal. It was not explained that the income 
taken would create a capital gains liability in the Bond.
Finding a solution to one thing and creating a problem for a later date, without 
setting out mitigation details, is highly unsatisfactory.
Taking the income didnt create the tax liability. So I can understand why Investec didnt 
warn Mr M that it would. 
I can appreciate the trustees were unsighted on how income tax would apply to the 
investment. But I dont see that as an issue for Investec to answer when considering their 
advice to Mr M to set up the investment. It has some interesting features that meant income 
tax wouldnt be payable in Mr Ms lifetime, unless he lived more than 20 years. 
The payment each year to Mr M was set to 5% of the value initially invested. Thats the cut-
off point before income tax is payable under the tax rules that apply. And the bond couldnt 
otherwise be encashed while Mr M was alive. 
Following Mr Ms death the bond didnt automatically end  an event that would usually 
trigger an income tax liability. It wont end until the year 2107, unless the trustees decide to 
encash it before then. 
The discretionary trust used also means it will be up to the trustees  not the beneficiaries  
when to end the investment. And it looks like the trustees could choose to assign the 
investment directly to eligible beneficiaries, which would change who is responsible for 
paying the income tax owed, and what rate they have to pay. 
The income tax to pay will  as a result  depend on how exactly the trustees choose to handle the investment. It might even be possible to pay no income tax  if they can assign 
the investment to a beneficiary at a point when theyre either exempt from or below the 
threshold for paying UK income tax. 
Given the unknowns at play, Im not surprised Investec simply said there would be a degree 
of flexibility when it came to the income tax. They didnt need to go over every possible way 
income tax could end up applying to the investment Mr M was setting up for the service to be 
reasonable. Not when Mr Ms main objective was to reduce inheritance tax.
That was achieved by having the investment in a trust. Its true that if the payments then 
made back to Mr M didnt match up with what he planned to use or gift during his lifetime, 
the effectiveness of that trust could be undermined. But I cant see Mr Ms executors have 
made a complaint on those terms.
With regard to the complaints about items of correspondence in 2006 to 2008, I put a lot of 
weight in the fact Mr M didnt complain about these at the time. If he was happy with them 
then, I feel his executors cant legitimately complain about them now. 
Similarly, the level of income Mr M was receiving seems to have been accepted by Mr M at 
the time. If the income level had been too high for him, he could have complained about that 
earlier. The fact he didnt complain speaks to his being satisfied with the income level put 
forward by Investec. 
The only other substantial issues are then the matters Investec already offered a remedy for.
In responding to the complaint, Investec noticed they hadnt provided the advisory service 
they told Mr M they were charging a fee for from 2012. I agree that it makes sense to return 
the fee in that case. And I can see the logic in our investigators view that the refund should 
be worked back in to the investment as if it hadnt been taken, so that the gains it would 
have achieved are included in the payment to the trust. 
And I can see the trustees have commented on how long it took to get an explanation from 
Investec, when they started asking about the investments gains. I find the £250 
compensation payment Investec offered for the trouble and upset caused for the trustees is 
suitable to acknowledge that impact. I dont direct more than that, as the underlying effort 
needed to work out the gain and pay income tax doesnt come from any failing by Investec. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint on the points where Investec Wealth & Investment Limited have 
already identified their service wasnt reasonable. To put those issues right, Investec should:
repay the advice fee charged from 2012 to 2014 to the investment fund.
compensate the trust for the lost gain that money would have made if it had stayed 
invested.
pay Mr Ms executors  as trustees of the trust he set up  £250 to acknowledge the 
trouble and upset caused by the communication delays in this case. 
On all other points of the complaint, I find the service has been fair and reasonable. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman