DRN-3447137
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) mishandled 
their claim for stolen mobile phones and failed to make reasonable adjustments for Mrs Ds 
medical condition. Ive just referred to Mrs D in this decision as she made the claim to AIG.
What happened
Mrs D held mobile phone insurance via her bank account. In June 2020 she fell victim to 
fraud when selling two phones and then claimed for one of them to AIG. AIG initially declined 
her claim saying she had put the phone at risk. Mrs D complained and AIG accepted her 
claim in September acknowledging its mistake and paid £35 compensation for her calls.
Mrs D then claimed for the other stolen phone and AIG requested identification and proof of 
purchase. Mrs D told AIG she couldnt provide this as she bought it from an online sales site 
and the other phone had been previously replaced by AIG and so proof of purchase wasnt 
relevant. 
AIG asked Mrs D to make a statement online, but Mrs D said she couldnt do that due to her 
condition. After some delay AIG agreed in October 2020 to complete the statement over the 
phone and this took place in November, but for only one of the phones. Mrs D complained 
again, and AIG paid her another £35 compensation, but months later the new phone hadnt 
arrived. AIG said it couldn't do anything as she hadn't provided the information it required. 
Mrs D complained again to AIG about its mishandling of her claim. In May 2021 AIG paid her 
£110 compensation for delays and the loss of value of her phones. Mrs D was unhappy and 
wanted the full difference in the value of the phones from July 2020 to now as newer models 
meant she got less in selling the replacements than if the claim had been settled as 
advertised by AIG. She also wanted compensation for the poor treatment she has received, 
and she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld and that AIG pay Mrs D further 
compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the delays. She said AIG was 
entitled to ask questions about the claim but hadnt done so before initially declining it. She 
said AIG should have been mindful of Mrs Ds accessibility needs in completing statements. 
The investigator didnt recommend that AIG compensate Mrs D for loss of value of the 
phones as the terms of her policy only provide for a replacement phone, which it had done. 
AIG accepted the investigators recommendations, but Mrs D did not. She said there was no 
acknowledgement of the number of calls or complaints shed had to make on her claim. She 
said there was insufficient information for us to judge the compensation she was due. Mrs D 
requested an ombudsman review her complaint and call her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have spoken to Mrs D about her claim and her complaint. I accept that she made it clear to 
AIG that she had special needs with regards to communications. 
From AIGs records of its calls with Mrs D and the several complaints she has made to AIG I 
can see that her claim wasnt resolved in a timely manner and AIG didn't deal with 
documentation promptly. The claim was started poorly by AIG rejecting it without seeking 
adequate information from Mrs D. 
This meant it took AIG far longer than was necessary and far longer than its advertised 
response time to resolve the claim. AIG then followed its terms and conditions requiring 
customers provide proof of purchase. But I can see that AIG didnt make the adjustments in 
its communications and policy compliance of Mrs D that are required by her medical 
condition. 
I think AIG should have found other ways to collect the information it required from Mrs D. It 
was only after further calls and time had passed that AIG suggested that it could obtain the 
statement from her over the phone, although she had made it aware of her communication 
needs. Although I understand that it can take time to investigate some claims, particularly if 
further information is needed, AIG clearly didnt process the claim within a reasonable 
timeframe.
I have thought carefully about the impact this delay of almost a year had upon Mrs D and 
Ive considered what she said about the many calls she had and the four or five complaints 
she raised. The number of complaints were necessary to Mrs D as AIG closed her 
complaints when it thought her issues were resolved. This was premature.
I can see that these issues were considered by the investigator and I agree that a fair and 
reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mrs D was caused is the £250 
compensation she recommended. This amounts to a total of £430 compensation when 
including the compensation of £180 that AIG has already paid.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ds policy to see whether AIG should pay her 
the difference in what she could have sold the phones for. Having done so, I can see that 
AIG is only required to replace phones that are lost or stolen but does not have to pay cash 
for them or for consequential losses. 
AIG has replaced the phones like-for-like, and we cannot tell it to compensate Mrs D for any 
further loss as AIG carried out the actions it was required to do, albeit belatedly. There is no 
cover in the policy for consequential losses and any difference in value between the phones 
AIG provided to Mrs D by way of her claim and what she was able to sell them for is an 
uninsured loss.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
American International Group UK Limited to pay Mrs D further compensation of £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience she has been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman