DRN-3386728
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) to transfer the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. The BSPS was a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. 
Mr S says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Both Mr S and Acumen are being represented by third parties. But, for ease of reading this 
decision, Ill largely refer to representations as just being made by Mr S and Acumen.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr S employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Acumen says Mr S first approached it for advice about his BSPS pension in November 2017. 
And on 7 November 2017, the BSPS provided Mr S with a summary of the transfer value of 
his scheme benefits. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£51,617.09. 
Acumen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr S circumstances and 
objectives. It noted that he was 28, in good health, employed full time and single with no 
dependents. He owned his own home and held a mortgage on a repayment basis. Acumen 
recorded this was due to be repaid well in advance of Mr S reaching retirement. It was noted 
that he had death in service benefits from his employer. And in addition to the benefits held 
in the BSPS, Mr S was also a member of his employers new defined contribution pension 
scheme, which had been set up in March 2017, with he and his employer making combined 
contributions equivalent to 16% of his salary.
Regarding immediate and future capital requirements, including those in retirement, Acumen 
recorded that there was no point in discussing these, given Mr S would not be able to 
access his pension benefits for approximately 30 years. It said Mr S was looking to transfer 
his pension for control and to have flexibility.
Acumen also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
high medium or a 6 on a scale of 1 to 10. 
Around late December 2017, Acumen advised Mr S to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest across several managed funds. The suitability report said that in 
addition to the preferences recorded previously, Mr S hoped to retire at age 58 so wanted 
flexibility and was prepared to give up a secure income to achieve this. And it said he was 
concerned that his existing pension wouldnt provide a legacy for his next of kin in its current 
form as he was single. 
It noted that, although Mr S attitude to risk had been established as high medium it had 
been agreed that medium or 5 on a scale of 1 to 10 was more accurate and that he had a 
small capacity for loss.
Acumen said it recommended the transfer because while invested Mr S fund would benefit 
from growth, benefits could be taken from age 55, 25% of the fund could be taken as tax-
free cash on retirement, Mr S would have a broad range of investment options, the lump 
sum death benefits were better than remaining in the DB scheme, hed have much greater 
freedom and flexibility and his desired level of retirement income was considered to be 
sustainable. It went on to say that the critical yield, the annual rate of return required of a 
new pension that would allow Mr S to purchase equivalent benefits to those he was 
guaranteed under the DB scheme, was unlikely to be achievable. So, from an investment 
perspective the transfer may not be feasible. But Mr S objective was to ensure his next of 
kin would have access to his pension and transferring achieved this objective.
The transfer went ahead in line with Acumens recommendation. And I understand Acumen 
has continued to provide ongoing advice and servicing to Mr S in regards to the pension, for 
an annual fee.
Mr S complained to Acumen in 2021 that the advice hed been given was not suitable based 
on his circumstances at the time and the new pension was unlikely to match the benefits it 
had recommended that he give up. So, Mr S felt he was likely to be worse off as a result of 
the advice. 
Acumen didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said Mr S had obtained a CETV before contacting it 
and was looking to transfer his pension. Acumen said it felt it had taken reasonable steps to 
ensure that the advice it provided was suitable, which is what it believes was required of it, 
and that Mr S had made an informed decision to transfer. Acumen said it wasnt required to 
guarantee that the transfer would be suitable for Mr S when viewed with hindsight. And, 
based on the information from the time, it felt the recommendation was suitable, also noting 
that the BSPS2 was not guaranteed to go ahead when the advice was given.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and said 
Acumen should compensate him for any loss the DB transfer had led to and pay him a 
further £150 for the distress caused. He didnt think Mr S was likely to receive greater 
retirement benefits by transferring. He also thought some of the statements in the suitability 
report were misleading  in particular that the retirement income would be sustainable when 
this requirement was unknown. The Investigator didnt think Mr S had a need for flexibility or 
control at the time of the advice. And he didnt think transferring in order to achieve alternate 
death benefits was appropriate based on his circumstances. So, the Investigator thought 
Mr S shouldve been advised not to transfer. And if he had, felt he wouldve moved to the 
BSPS2.Acumen didnt agree. It said it felt the Investigator had assessed the case on the wrong 
basis. It again said it wasnt required to guarantee that the transfer was suitable for Mr S, 
which it said was subjective anyway particularly with hindsight, which it thought had been 
unfairly applied. Rather it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable. 
Acumen also said the Investigator had placed too much weight on the critical yields and 
discount rate and said that it wasnt under any obligation to refer to the latter. Acumen felt 
Mr S had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer, which hadnt been 
taken into account. And it felt Mr S would have always looked to transfer, even if Acumen 
had advised him not to. It also reiterated that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed at the time of 
the advice, so felt this wasnt a genuine option for Mr S. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He said he was required to look 
at whether the transfer was in Mr S best interests. And he didnt think it was, for the reasons 
hed already explained. He also said he still thought an analysis of the critical yield was 
relevant. As Acumen didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Acumen says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr S. I agree that under the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) Acumen was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr S was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). However, as Ive mentioned 
above, additional regulations apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a transfer 
out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr S best interests 
(COBS 19.1.6). So, Im satisfied, as Acumen was advising on transferring out of a DB 
scheme, it was required to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in Mr S best interests. And 
having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill 
explain why.
Financial viability 
Acumens suitability report said that by transferring Mr S would have a broad range of 
investment options and would benefit from growth. But in my view, this would only be in his 
best interests if he was likely to improve on the guaranteed benefits he was already entitled 
to.
Acumen has provided copies of two transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports which it 
instructed  as obtaining a TVAS was required by the regulator. These reports, carried out a 
week apart, showed how much Mr S pension fund would need to grow by each year if 
invested in a personal pension in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the 
critical yield). 
All of the calculations were based on Mr S retiring at age 65. Acumen has said though that 
Mr S intended to retire at age 58. And indeed, this was referred to in the suitability report as 
a reason to transfer as hed have flexibility to retire early. Ill come back to whether this was 
a genuine objective later. But, based on Acumen relying on this objective, Id have expected 
the TVAS to include comparisons (particularly critical yields) for retiring at that age to 
illustrate the value of the DB scheme benefits. 
The calculations of the critical yields also only accounted for Mr S taking a full pension at 
age 65, with none calculated for what return would be needed if he chose to draw tax-free 
cash. The suitability report again said one of the benefits of transferring was that 25% of the 
fund could be taken as tax-free cash. Even though I cant see that Mr S expressed a need or 
preference for tax-free cash, as the suitability report refenced it as a reason to transfer, Id 
have expected to see a calculation of the returns needed to match the benefits the DB 
scheme would provide in that scenario.
The critical yield figures also appear to have been based on matching Mr S existing 
scheme, the BSPS, based on the revaluation assumptions noted. But Mr S didnt have the 
option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the 
scheme to the PPF. But while a critical yield was calculated in respect of moving to the PPF, 
there was no comparison with the BSPS2.
Acumen has said that the BSPS2 was not confirmed so was not a genuine option for Mr S. 
But I think Acumen is overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. The restructuring 
of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the point Acumen 
instructed advised Mr S. Mr S employer had agreed actions with the pensions regulator, 
and these had been carried out as scheduled  not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS 
which enabled the provision of improved transfer value quotations. Mr S had also received 
his Time to Choose pack  with joining the new scheme one of the options. And details of 
the new scheme had been provided  not least its revaluation rates. So, based on what had 
happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident the 
BSPS2 would go ahead. Of course, its possible it may not have done. But given it appeared 
likely to proceed I still think the benefits available to Mr S through the BSPS2 shouldve been 
factored into the TVAS reports, and the relevant comparison figures this generated 
discussed in the subsequent advice so that he was able to make an informed decision.Given what Ive said above, there are issues with how useful a comparison the TVAS reports 
in fact provided. Nevertheless, Ive considered the reports when looking at whether the 
transfer was in Mr S interests from a financial viability perspective.
The TVAS reports gave differing figures for the critical yields. For matching the full pension 
the BSPS wouldve provided at age 65 one report said the critical yield was 6.8% with the 
other saying 6.9%. And for matching the full pension the PPF would provide at age 65 the 
reports gave a critical yield of 5.2% and 5.7% respectively. The suitability report referred to 
the lower of each of the respective figures.
Again, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits were not calculated  although I 
think they should have been. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely 
decreased the critical yields somewhat in comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have 
been closer to those of the BSPS benefits, particularly at age 65.
Acumen says the critical yield is of limited relevance. And it says Mr S hadnt contemplated 
taking an annuity, making them even less relevant. But Mr S was only 28 at the time of the 
advice so it was approximately 30 years until hed likely be able to take benefits in any form 
from the pension. In that time his circumstances or plans could very well have changed. And 
it was entirely possible that, when he did retire, he may have wanted greater guarantees for 
his income. In any event though, the regulator required Acumen to consider the rate of 
investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Acumen says 
that referring to the discount rate was not required by the regulator when giving advice. So, 
has suggested our Service is wrong to take this into account. But I think it is a reasonable 
additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably 
achievable at the time of the advice. 
Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be 
paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. The discount rate would be considered a reasonable assumption of likely 
returns. And businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst I agree businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they are able to do 
so and I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.7% per year for 36 years to retirement (which would be the case if Mr S retired at age 
65). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
Id also note that, as part of a risk profile report produced by Acumen, it set out a target asset 
allocation that it felt would be suitable based on Mr S having a high medium attitude to risk. 
This said that the estimated annual potential growth rates for that target portfolio were 
3.13%. And that is notwithstanding that Mr S attitude to risk was later revised to medium  
so he was willing to take less risk.I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
the medium attitude to risk Acumen said Mr S had and also the term to retirement. There 
would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB scheme 
only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And here, I think 
Mr S was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value at age 65 as a result of 
transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk than those he wouldve been due 
under the BSPS2. And this would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
So, based on the information that is available, from a financial viability perspective, I dont 
think a transfer was in Mr S best interests. And Acumen acknowledged this to an extent in 
its suitability report when it suggested the critical yields were unlikely to be achievable. But it 
believes there were other considerations that meant the transfer was suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. And it says Mr S was aware of the risk of receiving lower 
overall benefits and accepted this. Making Mr S aware of risk doesnt though mean it was 
suitable advice to recommend that he take those risks. And, as Ill go on to explain, I dont 
think the other considerations mentioned mean it was in his best interests to transfer.
Flexibility and income needs
Acumen says Mr S wanted flexibility in his pension benefits as it said he hoped to retire at 
age 58. But I dont think he had a genuine need for flexibility at the time the advice was 
given.
The BSPS2 and the PPF both allowed Mr S to take benefits at age 58 if he chose to do so. 
So, he didnt need to transfer in order to retire early.
The fact-find also noted that Acumen felt there was no-point discussing Mr S income needs 
in retirement, based on how far off that was. I dont think it was unreasonable, given how 
long it was until he could retire, that these needs wouldnt be known. Nor do I think it was 
unreasonable for Mr S not to know whether hed be looking to take tax free cash. But with 
these needs entirely unknown, I dont think it can be argued Mr S needed to transfer in order 
to achieve a specific level of income or to access tax-free cash.
I also think the statement in the suitability report that Mr S desired level of income is 
sustainable beyond your life expectancy because of the combined value of your various 
sources of income in retirement is misleading  as Ive seen no analysis to back this up, 
particularly as those needs are said to have been unknown.
Ultimately, Mr S was only 28 when Acumen advised him to transfer  at least 30 years from 
apparently when he intended to take any retirement benefits. I dont doubt he was interested 
in retiring early if possible  I think most consumers would be when asked. But I dont think 
his thoughts or plans were definitive at the time of the advice. So, I dont think he had a need 
for flexibility when he transferred his DB scheme. And I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation, or in his best interests, for Mr S to give up his guaranteed benefits when 
he did  particularly bearing in mind it appears he was always unlikely to be able to match 
the benefits hed be due under the DB scheme. And if Mr S later had reason to transfer out 
of his DB scheme I understand that this wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. So, he 
couldve done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Acumen has said that one of Mr S objectives was that his next of kin would have access to 
the full value of his pension fund.Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension might have been an attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst I 
appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have thought it was a 
good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here 
was to advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Acumen explored to what extent 
Mr S was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr S was single with no children at the time of the advice. So, the spouses and dependents 
pension offered by the DB scheme mightve seemed to be of little use to him at the time. But 
Mr S was still young. And his situation could very well have changed in the years to come. 
So, the existing death benefits couldve become of significantly greater use to him  in the 
event he married or had children. And these benefits were guaranteed, and they escalated.
And while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on 
investment performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr S drew in his 
lifetime. Mr S was recorded as being in good health and there was nothing to suggest he 
was unlikely to live until at least his average life expectancy. So, the fund couldve been 
significantly depleted, and potentially utilised entirely, by the time Mr S reached his average 
life expectancy. And the pension may not therefore have provided the legacy that Mr S may 
have thought it would at the time of the advice. 
The fact find also recorded that Mr S had death in service benefits from his employer, which 
appear, in my view, to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a legacy to 
his next of kin. The new defined contribution pension he was a member of also provided 
alternative forms of death benefit to his DB scheme. And, if Mr S didnt think these were 
enough and genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy, life insurance was an option  which 
given his age and apparent good health appears likely to have been obtainable at a 
reasonable price. Acumen has provided notes from its adviser which says this was 
mentioned as an option. But they dont reflect why this was discounted. I also cant see that 
a quote was obtained or that any mention of the comparative cost of this was made in the 
suitability report. So, I dont think I can reasonably say this was sufficiently explored as a 
genuine alternative.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. 
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr S desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr S was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, the pension was invested in managed 
funds and Acumen continued to provide ongoing servicing and advice to Mr S. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr S  it was simply a consequence of transferring 
away from the DB scheme. Rather, I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty 
about the BSPS. I dont doubt Mr S, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time and itd been made 
clear he would need to make a choice. I also dont doubt Mr S had likely heard negative 
things about what could happen, including entry into the PPF and this was why he said he 
mightve indicated he preferred to have control over his pension fund.  Its also quite possible 
that Mr S was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of his concerns. But that 
was why it was even more important for Acumen to give Mr S an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests. 
Acumen has said that there was a loss of trust from Mr S in respect of his employer and 
there was scepticism about the new arrangements. But the BSPS2 pension trustees were to 
be separate from his employer. And by the time advice was given here details of the BSPS2 
were known and it seemed likely it was going ahead. The Time to Choose paperwork was 
clear that opting into that scheme was an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this 
would go ahead. And I think this, and the features of the BSPS including the ongoing option 
of transferring at a later date, shouldve alleviated any concerns Mr S mightve had about the 
scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Acumen shouldve 
reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr S through the PPF, while a reduction on what hed have been due 
under the BSPS, was still guaranteed and not subject to investment risk. And he was 
unlikely to improve on the pension benefits the PPF wouldve provided by transferring out. 
And this guaranteed income wouldve given him a solid foundation for retirement, which he 
could build on through contributions to his employers new pension arrangements. So, I dont 
think that any concerns Mr S mightve had about the PPF shouldve led to Acumen 
recommending Mr S transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr S. But 
Acumen wasnt there to just transact what Mr S might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to understand Mr S circumstances, separate his potential concerns 
stemming from the ongoing uncertainty and unconfirmed potential plans from his genuine 
needs and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. His needs in retirement were 
largely unknown. By transferring, he was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing 
income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). And this action was irreversible. Mr S was also, in 
my view, always likely to obtain lower retirement benefits as a result of transferring. And I 
dont think there were any other reasons which justified the transfer and outweighed this  
particularly given how far away from making any real decisions about retirement Mr S was. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr S best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension, particularly when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. I appreciate that 
the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but while I know Acumen has 
disagreed, I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. 
Mr S had at least 30 years before he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs 
in retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept 
the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. I say this 
because while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, there was no guarantee the 
reduction he accepted would end up being offset by this more favourable reduction. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr S wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if Acumen had correctly 
advised him against transferring Mr S wouldve opted into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr S would've gone ahead with a transfer anyway, 
against Acumen's advice. Acumen says he wouldve, as he made an informed decision.
Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Acumens advice. 
While Mr S had obtained a CETV before speaking to Acumen, hed been told by that point 
about significant potential changes to the BSPS and that hed have to make a choice. 
Obtaining a CETV allowed him to make an informed choice. But I dont think this means his 
mind was already made up.
I accept that Acumen disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr S and provided him with 
information about this in the suitability report. But providing information about risks isnt a 
substitute for suitable advice. And ultimately Acumen advised Mr S to transfer his benefits, 
and I think Mr S relied on that advice.
Ultimately Mr S was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of 
his retirement provision at the time. So, if Acumen had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice. And Im not persuaded that Mr S concerns about the consultation or 
the PPF, or the potential appeal of alternative death benefits were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if Acumen had explained 
Mr S had no real reason to take on additional risk or give up the guarantees he was entitled 
to and that he was unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 or 
PPF if he transferred out, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think 
hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think Acumen should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Our Investigator recommended that Acumen also pay Mr S £150 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr S has been caused distress and concern by 
finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Acumens unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Acumen should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdfIn this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He would 
like to wait and for his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance / rules. And I 
consider it is fair that Acumen honours this request and that it calculates redress in line with 
new guidance and rules as soon as those rules come into effect.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr S.
So, Acumen must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology 
(rather than to calculate and pay any due compensation now in line with FG17/9). In 
accordance with the regulators expectations, this calculation should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance / rules come into 
effect.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Acumen has 
received notification of Mr S acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Acumen to pay Mr S.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Acumen deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Acumen should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition, Acumen should pay Mr S £150 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning. For clarity, I dont think this payment should be held back until the new 
guidance / rules are implemented and the calculation discussed above carried out. So, this 
£150 payment should be made separately, within 30 days of Acumen being notified of Mr S 
acceptance of my decision.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Acumen 
Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman