The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had a convertible car. The car was about 15 years old. It had a recorded mileage of 
only 43,000. 
Mr H had a comprehensive motor policy under which Aviva was responsible for dealing with 
claims.
He reported that, while his car was parked, a bus hit the front wing of it. Aviva arranged 
repair and the provision of a courtesy car.
Several weeks later Mr H arranged to return the courtesy car and collect his own car. He 
complained that it was in an undrivable condition. Avivas repairer arranged for the car to be 
taken to a dealer franchised by the cars maker. Mr H says he had to pay £89.00 + VAT for a 
report on his car.
Mr H says he had to pay the franchised dealer to replace one of the two rear driveshafts and 
its sensor.
He says that  as Aviva wouldnt provide a courtesy car - he had to hire a car at a total cost 
of £308.00.
In a final response dated 7 May 2019 Aviva offered to refund £89.00 + VAT if Mr H provided 
the receipt. Aviva also offered to pay Mr H £200.00 for trouble and upset.
Unhappy with that response, Mr H brought his complaint to us in September 2019.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
there was no explanation of why the repairer didnt realise warning lights were coming on 
before he asked Mr H to collect his car. The investigator recommended that Aviva should:
1. pay a further £250.00 for the trouble and upset caused; and
2. pay £308.00 for the cost of the hire car on production of proof of this payment being
made by Mr H; and
3. pay £89.00 + VAT for the cost of the report on production of proof of this payment
being made by Mr H.
DRN-1429131He didnt conclude that Aviva is responsible for the failure of the driveshaft and the activation 
of the sensor. So he didnt consider Aviva needs to pay any costs associated with their 
replacement.
Aviva agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Before the accident there were no issues with the car with no warning lights and no 
driveshaft problem. 
The problem only arose as a consequence of the accident and the duration of time 
for the repairs.
Both driveshafts shouldve been replaced. 
Before he brought the complaint to us, he emailed Aviva the invoices for the report 
and hire car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen many photographs of the car including some underneath the rear. Avivas expert 
engineer has pointed out corrosion. I find it more likely than not that the corrosion had 
occurred in the fifteen years prior to the accident. I dont accept that it happened over the 
winter when Avivas repairer had the car.
I accept that corrosion caused a sensor to activate the traction control system. So I dont 
hold Aviva responsible for the cost of putting right that problem. 
But I do find it likely that the repairer shouldve done more to road-test the car and alert Mr H 
to the problem before telling him his car was ready for him to collect. And I hold Aviva 
responsible for that  and the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr H.
Avivas repairer involved the franchised dealer. And Aviva has offered to pay £89.00 + VAT 
for the report - on receipt of evidence of payment. 
I accept that  with his car at the dealer but not drivable - Mr H wouldve found it difficult not 
to accept the dealers quote to replace a driveshaft and sensor. But I havent found Aviva 
responsible for the cost of that. 
And Mr H instructed the dealer to do the work. So I dont hold Aviva responsible for the 
dealer not doing a more limited repair on one driveshaft or alternatively replacing both 
driveshafts.
Putting things right
As Aviva has agreed to implement the investigators recommendation, I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct it to pay the following:
1. a further £250.00 for distress and inconvenience;2. £308.00 in reimbursement for the invoice for the hire car;
3. £89.00 + VAT in reimbursement for the invoice for the dealers report.
Whilst Mr H will still be out of pocket for replacing the driveshaft, Im satisfied that the total of 
the above three amounts is more than fair and reasonable compensation for the 
shortcomings for which Ive found Aviva responsible.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr H:
1. in addition to its offer of £200.00, a further £250.00 for distress and inconvenience;
2. if Mr H shall have sent Aviva evidence of his payment, each of the following amounts:
2.1 £308.00 in reimbursement for the invoice for the hire car; and
2.2  £89.00 + VAT in reimbursement for the invoice for the dealers report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman