DRN-2362546
The complaint
Mr G and the estate of Mrs G complain that AWP P&C SA declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy following cancellation of their trip. Reference to AWP includes 
reference to its agents. 
What happened
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs G booked a trip with a departure date of 5 June 2019. On 16 
January 2019, Mrs G had hip and leg pain. On 18 January 2019, Mrs G saw her GP about 
that. Mrs Gs GP referred her for an x-ray. 
On 22 January 2019, Mr and Mrs G bought a single trip travel insurance policy. Mr G 
completed medical screening for himself and Mrs G, which Ill refer to in more detail below. 
Crohns disease and osteoarthritis were declared for Mrs G. AWP offered full cover for those 
conditions without payment of an additional premium. 
On 8 February 2019, Mrs G had an x-ray which showed degenerative changes in her hip. On 
18 March 2019, Mrs Gs GP advised her to cancel the trip as the pain had not improved.   
Mrs Gs GP referred her to orthopaedics. Mr and Mrs G cancelled their trip and made a claim 
against their travel insurance policy. 
AWP declined Mr and Mrs Gs claim. It said that the symptoms Mrs Gs experienced in 
January 2019 were new and undiagnosed and that she was awaiting investigation to confirm 
the underlying cause. AWP relied on an exclusion in the policy which said that theres no 
cover if there were undiagnosed symptoms for which investigations were underway and 
where the underlying cause hadnt been established. It said that whilst Mrs G had declared 
osteoarthritis, both she and her GP said that the condition leading to the cancellation of the 
trip was unrelated to any previous diagnosis. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt think that AWPs response was fair. Unfortunately, Mrs G died in August 
2019. Mr G and Mrs Gs executors are pursuing the complaint.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for AWP to rely on the exclusion about undiagnosed symptoms which were 
awaiting investigation and where the underlying cause hadnt been established. Thats 
because in the health screening call, Mr G said that Mrs G was awaiting tests or 
investigations, as she was waiting for an x-ray. So, the investigator thought that AWP was 
given a chance to consider and exclude this but didnt do so. 
The investigator said that the fact that Mrs G didnt tell AWP the results of the x-ray didnt 
alter the outcome here, as AWP confirmed that any change in health is accepted without the 
need to screen or amend the condition, as long as the doctor has confirmed that the insured 
is fit to travel.    
The investigator said that Mr G should have disclosed on Mrs Gs behalf that shed received 
treatment for back and neck problems and that, if he had done so, AWP would have charged 
a higher premium. So, the investigator thought that AWP should settle the claim on a 
proportionate basis.
AWP said that it can see both sides, but it maintained its position that its justified in applying 
the exclusion relating to undiagnosed symptoms. It asked that an ombudsman consider the 
matter, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Existing medical conditions are not covered unless they have been declared to and 
accepted in writing by the Insurer. 
Cancellation or curtailment charges  Section 1
[]
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
We will pay up to the amount shown in your summary of cover in total, for your part of 
unused personal accommodation, transport charges and other travel expenses which have 
been paid or where there is a contract to pay that cannot be recovered from anywhere else.
We will provide this cover in the following necessary and unavoidable circumstances:
Cancellation
If you cancel your journey before it begins because one of the following happens after the 
date your policy and travel tickets for your journey were bought:
The [] serious illness of you [] or a relative
WHAT YOU ARE NOT COVERED FOR
[]
Any claim if you do not comply with the conditions stated in the Health declaration and 
health exclusions on pages 13-14.
Health declaration and health exclusions
[]
If you make a claim arising from a medical condition that has not been declared and 
accepted by us, it is unlikely that your claim will be paid. 
It is very important that you read the following and declare any existing medical 
conditions to us.1.You will not be covered for any directly or indirectly related claims [] arising from the 
following if in the 12 months before taking out this insurance or booking your journey 
(whichever is later), you:
a. have been prescribed medication;
b. have received treatment or attended a medical practitioner for any medical 
condition;
c. []
d. have been referred for tests, investigations, treatment, surgery or are awaiting 
results.
e. []
Unless you have declared any existing medical conditions to us and we have 
confirmed cover in writing. 
[]
5. You will not be covered if you had any undiagnosed symptoms for which you were 
awaiting investigations or consultations or the results of investigations and where the 
underlying cause has not been established.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think that AWP acted 
fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim. Ill explain why.
AWP seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy which says that theres no cover 
where theres undiagnosed symptoms which are under investigation and where the 
underlying cause hasnt been established. So, its for AWP to show thats the case 
here. On balance, I dont think its done that. 
Mrs G had a diagnosis of osteoarthritis some time ago. The medical evidence Ive 
seen doesnt wholly support AWPs conclusion that the condition which led to the 
cancellation of the trip was unrelated to the previous diagnosis of osteoarthritis. 
Section two of the medical report by Mrs Gs GP dated 10 April 2019 said that       
Mrs Gs symptoms were pain from osteoarthritis in her hip. Section six of the report 
says that Mrs G was referred for an x-ray to investigate osteoarthritis in her hip and it 
was later found that thered been degenerative changes. But in section three of the 
report, Mrs Gs GP answered NO to the question whether Mrs G had suffered from, 
been treated for or been diagnosed with any medical condition directly or indirectly 
related to the pain she was having. So, I can see that the medical evidence is 
somewhat ambiguous. 
Mrs Gs GP said that the hip and leg pain was new, but the pain was as a result of 
Mrs Gs osteoarthritis. Mrs G didnt appear to think they were related at the outset, 
but Im satisfied, on balance, that the medical report indicates that they were. 
During the medical screening, Mr G declared Mrs Gs osteoarthritis and AWP 
accepted it. Mr and Mrs Gs claim most likely arose from a medical condition that had 
been declared and accepted by AWP. 
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for AWP to decline the claim. Thats because Mr G declared in the 
medical screening that the investigation was underway. So, AWP had an opportunity 
to consider the matter and make any exclusions it considered necessary.   Mrs G didnt report the outcome of the x-ray to AWP but that doesnt affect the 
outcome here as AWP wouldnt have required further screening in any event. 
Ive listened to the health screening call. AWP asked Mr G a clear question about 
whether Mrs G had ever had medical treatment for back problems and Mr G 
answered no. Its clear from the GPs medical report that Mrs G had previously 
suffered from back pain. So, when Mr G completed the health screening, he should 
have told AWP about that. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain 
remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt 
made the misrepresentation. 
Im satisfied that if AWP had known about Mrs Gs back problems it would have 
charged a higher premium. Its shown that it would have charged Mr and Mrs G 
£315.29 instead of £288. So, Mr and Mrs G paid 91% of the premium they would 
have paid if AWP had known the true position. I think its fair for any settlement 
payable to be on a proportionate basis to reflect that Mr and Mrs G paid only 91% of 
the premium they should have paid.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AWP acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim. I think that AWP should deal with Mr and Mrs Gs claim 
under the remaining terms of the policy. Any settlement payable to Mr G and the estate of 
Mrs G should be on a proportionate basis. AWP should also pay interest on any settlement.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I now  
direct AWP P&C SA to deal with Mr and Mrs Gs claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy. It should also pay interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from 
the date of the claim to the date it makes the payment.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and the 
estate of Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman