DRN-3187803
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not fairly compensate him after it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to him in 1999. 
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with HSBC in 1999 for £7,350. He was sold a single premium PPI policy 
at the same time. As this was a single premium policy, Mr B had to borrow extra on top of his 
loan to pay for the PPI cover. He also had to pay interest on top of that additional cost.
In 2019, Mr B complained to HSBC that it had mis-sold PPI to him. HSBC initially said that it 
could not trace an account. However, Mr B managed to locate a copy of his credit 
agreement, and he sent it to HSBC. On 22 April 2020, HSBC upheld the complaint and 
offered to pay £5,268.83 to compensate Mr B for that mis-sale. 
Mr B did not agree with HSBCs calculation. He said that he thought hed paid substantially 
more than that for PPI. He said that he had fallen into financial difficulties and that in 2003, 
HSBC had obtained a County Court Judgment for £13,653.15. He was ordered by the 
County Court to pay HSBC £35.06 a month. He said HSBC later obtained a charging order 
on his property. Mr B sold his property in 2018 and the value of the charge was £7,450.27 
when it was redeemed. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this. She said she thought HSBC had made errors when 
calculating its compensation offer. But she thought those errors made the offer more 
generous than it should have been. And HSBC offered to honour its higher offer. As HSBC 
did not have records about the loan account, it had assumed the loan ran to term and that 
Mr B paid for the policy in full. However, our adjudicator said that due to arrears and court 
action, it was not clear whether Mr B had paid for the PPI in full. 
Mr B did not agree with what our adjudicator said, and so she reconsidered her view. She 
then said that she didnt think the loan Mr B complained about formed part of the CCJ  she 
thought the CCJ related to different accounts, as different account numbers had been 
quoted by HSBCs solicitors. She didnt think the PPI would have cost more than was stated 
on the loan agreement. 
Mr B said he thought hed paid around £2,940 too much in PPI. He said he had only ever 
taken out two loans for more than £10,000  one with HSBC and another with a second 
business. He provided bank statements and said there was no mention of any other loan 
repayments to HSBC. Mr B said that our adjudicator shouldnt read too much into the 
account numbers used by HSBC. 
As Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been referred to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, so I dont need to revisit what happened at the 
point of sale. I am looking at whether HSBC fairly compensated Mr B for that mis-sale. 
In making my decision, where the facts in a case are in dispute (as they are here), I must 
apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, I must consider what is most likely to have 
happened based on the evidence before me. 
Were HSBCs assumptions fair? 
As I said above, HSBC was unable to trace PPI on Mr Bs account and it was only after he 
supplied the credit agreement that HSBC agreed to compensate him for the mis-sale. This 
isnt unusual. The loan was taken out in 1999 and businesses are not required to keep 
records indefinitely.  I wouldnt expect either party to keep records for such a long time, and 
it is fortunate that Mr B did so. 
As HSBC could not trace the account, it could not say when the account had been closed or 
whether Mr B had paid for the PPI in full. So, it assumed that the loan had run to term and 
had been repaid in line with the credit agreement. 
Mr B disagreed with this. He said he had paid much more for the PPI, which formed part of 
the CCJ, and that this had not been repaid until 2018. 
I cant say it is most likely that the loan I am considering today forms part of the CCJ and that 
Mr B ended up paying too much for the PPI. I say this because the letter from HSBCs 
solicitors dated 26 October 2017 said that the borrowing subject to the court proceedings 
was entered into on 15 August 2001. We know that the borrowing in respect of the PPI 
policy was taken out in December 1999. 
In addition to that, it appears the borrowing in respect of the CCJ may have been in respect 
of a loan that Mr B had taken out with someone else. I say this because the letters from 
HSBCs solicitors dated 23 March 2004 and 26 October 2017 refer to two borrowers. The 
lending that had PPI attached was in Mr Bs name only. I wouldnt expect a CCJ to be made 
against someone who wasnt liable for repaying the loan. 
Mr B sent some bank statements to us in which he said there was no evidence of any further 
borrowing to HSBC. He also said he had never taken out any other loans for more than 
£10,000 apart from with HSBC and another second business. I note that the bank 
statements provided by Mr B pre-date 15 August 2001, which is when the correspondence 
from HSBCs solicitors say the account in respect of the CCJ was opened. I further note that 
when he initially complained to us, Mr B said that hed had loans of between £100,000 and 
£120,000 between 1992 and 2003.  
I must make clear to Mr B that HSBC calculated 8% interest on the assumption the loan had 
been repaid in 2006. This is to compensate him for being out of pocket for the PPI 
payments.  The amount HSBC calculated in this regard was £3,477.06. If I find, as Mr B 
suggests, that the loan was not repaid in full until 2018, then the 8% compensation would be 
substantially reduced.  
As things stand, I cant say its most likely that the PPI policy Ive been asked to look at is the 
same for which HSBC obtained a CCJ. I dont think Mr B paid extra for the PPI because the 
figures he refers to do not relate to this account. In the absence of any further information to 
the contrary, I think HSBC acted fairly when it assumed the loan ran to term and in 
accordance with the credit agreement. 
Did HSBC fairly calculate compensation? 
In considering whether HSBC fairly compensated Mr B, insofar as it is possible to do so, I 
would expect it to return him to the position he would have been in if PPI had never been 
sold to him in the first place. 
As this was a single premium policy, Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was 
bigger than it should have been. He also paid more than he should have each month. To 
compensate him, HSBC would need to work out and pay the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and what he would have paid without PPI. Id then expect it to 
add simple interest to those amounts from when Mr B paid them until he gets that money 
back. 
Looking at the calculation, I can see HSBC has undertaken those steps. In fact, the 
calculation is more generous than I would expect. Thats because it has calculated the APR 
Mr B paid at 13.9%, when the agreement indicates it was 11.9%. I can also see that HSBC 
incorrectly calculated the total premiums Mr B paid without interest to be £1,812.56, when it 
was in fact £1,381.47. HSBC told our adjudicator it would honour its more generous offer, 
and it was right to do so. 
I can see that at one point, Mr B queried why he had only been refunded interest at 8% 
when the APR he paid was higher than that. Just to be clear, HSBC offered to refund the 
cost of the PPI and the APR at 13.9%.  The 8% simple interest was paid on top of that. 
Putting all of this together, Im satisfied that HSBCs offer to compensate Mr B was more 
generous than I would usually expect to see. So I think its offer was fair in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons set out above, I 
do not uphold the complaint. That said, if it hasnt done so already, HSBC will need to make 
arrangements to pay the compensation to Mr B. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman