DRN-2258959
The complaint
Mr P complains Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold him a life and critical illness whole of life 
policy in 1995. 
What happened
After completing a financial health check with Mr P in 1995, Zurich recommended a Lifestyle 
Plus Plan (the plan) to provide life and critical illness cover for Mr P. The plan, which was a 
unit linked whole of life plan, had an initial sum assured of £113,990. This would be payable 
on the death of Mr P or if Mr P contracted a specified critical illness. The plan was arranged 
on a maximum cover basis with a review of cover and premiums at 10 years. The sum 
assured increased in line with the average earnings index and there was a waiver of 
contribution benefit. 
By 2005, the sum assured had increased to around £163,000, due to the impact of the 
average earnings index. The monthly premium had also increased in line with this index. At 
this point Mr P chose not to increase his premium and sum assured further, and the sum 
assured was reduced to about £46,000.
Mr P complained to Zurich in February 2020 that the plan had been mis-sold. His specific 
complaints were:
Zurich didnt consider alternatives to the plan;
Zurich didnt explain the reviews under the plan, and this important aspect was left 
out of the suitability letter; and
Zurich recommended a plan that invested in the stock market where the level of 
cover would depend on market performance, even though Mr P had a cautious 
attitude to risk.
Zurich provided Mr P with a final response to his complaint in February 2020. They thought 
the plan hadnt been mis-sold and was suitable for Mr Ps needs at the time. Zurich said they 
didnt consider there were any alternative products available as Mr P hadnt told them he 
wanted the policy for a fixed term. Zurich said the review process was fully explained in the 
documentation they sent to Mr P when the plan was set up.
In terms of the plan investing in the stock market, Zurich said the documentation they 
provided to Mr P made it clear this plan primarily provided Mr P with protection, and it wasnt 
an investment plan. They said the documentation provided to Mr P made it clear the plan 
was unit linked, how the investment benefit was calculated, which funds he would be 
invested in and the associated risks.
Mr P wasnt happy with the final response from Zurich and brought his complaint to this 
service. Mr P is represented by a third party.
Our investigator considered the complaints and thought that Zurich hadnt done anything 
wrong. The investigator also thought the key features document and illustration Zurich 
provided to Mr P, before he took out the plan, made it reasonably clear the sum assured was 
reviewable. And that the investment element of the plan wasnt the primary reason for 
recommending it. The investigator noted there was no term to the plan. However, as the plan 
was for family protection, rather than to protect a mortgage or for cover until a defined date, 
he thought it was a suitable policy. 
Mr P didnt agree with what the investigator said and asked that an ombudsman decide his 
complaint. He said that it is unacceptable to later discover that the plan was reviewable. Mr 
P said he wasnt provided with enough information to make a balanced and informed 
decision. He doesnt think that the plan is suitable for someone with a cautious risk to 
investment, and Zurich didnt take this into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and I think he set out matters clearly and 
thoroughly. 
alternatives to the plan
The financial health check Zurich completed with Mr P highlighted a need for life and critical 
illness cover for family protection. The financial health check doesnt record any compelling 
reason why Mr P would need protection for a fixed term; for example, a mortgage.  Although 
Mr P says Zurich didnt provide an alternative product, I consider the plan was suitable as it 
provided the type of protection Mr P required over an uncertain period. 
reviewable premiums and cover
The crux of this complaint is that Mr P doesnt believe Zurich did enough to ensure he 
understood the plan had a reviewable premium and sum assured.
Mr P says that Zurich didnt explain how the plan worked. He says they relied on the key 
features document provided, and the policy schedule they sent after he had taken out the 
plan. Mr P also says that the suitability letter Zurich provided didnt tell him the cover and 
premium were reviewable.
On the other hand, Zurich say that they provided Mr P with the suitability letter and key 
features document which showed how the plan worked and the benefits and payments. They 
say Mr P decided to take out the plan after being provided with this information. Zurich noted 
that after they sent him the policy schedule with the cancellation notice, Mr P didnt take the 
opportunity to cancel the plan.
Of course, I cant say what Zurich told Mr P at the point of sale as there is no telephone call 
or transcript of what was said, and it was 25 years ago. However, I have seen the suitability 
letter specifically referred Mr P to the key features documents, which included a bespoke 
illustration of the benefits, costs and structure of the plan. And it seems, on the balance of 
probability, Mr P received these before he took out the plan.
The illustration explained the initial sum assured of £113,990 would be provided for the first 
10 years of the plan, after which it would reduce to £27,684. It said that Mr P would be able 
to maintain the benefits by increasing his contribution. 
As I cant fairly assess what Mr P may have been told at the initial meeting with Zurich, I 
have decided to give more weight to the documents they provided to Mr P at the time. The financial health check also confirms the adviser discussed the recommendation with Mr P. 
These documents support that Zurich provided Mr P with information that the benefits and 
premiums within the policy were reviewable. So, I am satisfied, on the balance of probability, 
Zurich provided Mr P with enough information to make a balanced and informed decision 
before he decided to take out the plan.
attitude to investment risk
Mr P feels this plan doesnt suit his cautious attitude to investment risk. However, this plan 
was taken out primarily as a protection plan because the financial health check highlighted 
family protection as the most important area for Mr P at the time. It also seems from the 
financial health check that Mr P had a limited budget to provide protection. I consider it was 
reasonable to provide the maximum amount of cover available for the premium Mr P could 
afford at the time. And although there was some small element of investment to the plan, I 
consider it wasnt recommended to provide a lump sum in the future but rather to enable the 
sum assured to be supported. Therefore, I dont agree that it made the plan unsuitable for Mr 
P when considering his attitude to risk. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Zurich Assurance 
Ltd to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman