DRN-3517761
The complaint
Mr R complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (First Direct) has dealt 
with a payment holiday on his account and the impact its mistakes had on him.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr R applied for a payment holiday on his credit card with First Direct. Mr R 
understood that a payment holiday like this meant he didnt have to make a payment and 
wouldnt result in missed payments or arrears being recorded on his credit file. But, in 
February he noticed that First Direct had taken a full contractual payment which would have 
an impact on his credit file. He queried this with First Direct and it said that it had no record 
of the payment holiday.
After a lot of back and forth, Mr R complained to First Direct about this and, in March 2021, it 
agreed to backdate the payment holiday to January 2021 and to correct his credit file in 
terms of a missed payment that had been recorded. It offered £50 and increased this to 
£100 for the mistake this had on Mr R, but he didnt think this went far enough. He said that, 
as a director of a business, he wanted to apply for a specific type of loan for his business  
but the application was declined because of the marker on his credit file.
First Direct didnt take any further action and so Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into this and didnt think that First Directs offer went far enough. 
They thought that First Directs mistake would have impacted on the loan application. For 
that loss of opportunity  they felt that First Direct should pay Mr R an additional £400, 
bringing the compensation offer to £500 in total.
Initially, First Direct declined to pay this on the basis that it didnt feel there was enough 
evidence to clearly show that a mistake had been made here, or of the losses he said he 
had incurred. But, after further correspondence  First Direct agreed to pay the additional 
£400. Mr R appreciated the offer, but still wanted an ombudsmans decision on the matter. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties now agree that the £500 currently being offered by First Direct after our 
investigators involvement is fair as a starting point for the impact here. On that basis, what I 
have to consider if whether further compensation would be fair, as Mr R says, or if the offer 
as it now stands is reasonable.
Its clear that the issues around the payment holiday had quite an impact on Mr R. He was 
clearly worried about the impact on his credit file at what was an important and difficult time 
for him. Hes told us how confusing and frustrating he found the situation. For that, its fair 
that First Direct compensates him. It did that initially when it offered £50 and then £100. But 
now First Direct has agreed that £500 is fair. For the impact on Mr R as an individual here, I 
think thats a generous amount of compensation and is more than fair in the circumstances.
In considering whether I need to tell First Direct to take any further action, Mr R has told us 
about the impact on him, but also detailed the impact this had on him as a director of a 
limited company. I realise that for Mr R, things were all interlinked here. He has specifically 
mentioned his company being declined a specific type of loan and the impact of this on him. 
But as our investigator recently explained to Mr R  that is ultimately a loss that was to a 
separate legal entity  a limited company. So I cant tell First Direct to compensate Mr R as 
an individual for any impact that the loss of the loan would have had on his company. Under 
the rules that apply to this service, I can only consider the impact on Mr R as an individual, 
as he has the relevant relationship with First Direct that this complaint arises from. 
I know that Mr R wanted to see whether an ombudsman could reprimand, or affect 
First Direct in some way  but thats not my role here. Instead my role is to look at this 
complaint and reach an individual and impartial decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. In doing so, Ive considered everything that Mr R has told us and I think £500 
in total is fair for the distress and inconvenience caused to him in the circumstances of this 
complaint. It follows that First Direct should pay him this.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should pay Mr R £500 in 
total for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman