DRN-3946079
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when she 
wanted to transfer an Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mrs K wanted to transfer an existing ISA to Barclays to take advantage of a specific interest 
rate. But Barclays told Mrs K that  as she wasnt an existing Barclays account holder, she 
needed to attend a branch with identification (ID). 
Mrs K complained to Barclays saying that when she has transferred her ISA to a new 
provider before, her instructions have been carried out without the need to visit a branch. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. It said it required all non-Barclays customers to 
attend a branch with ID before it could accept an ISA transfer. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mrs K referred her complaint to this service. One of 
investigators looked into it, but she didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. She was 
satisfied that Barclays had followed its laid down procedures when a new customer wants to 
transfer an ISA to it.
Mrs K didnt accept this outcome. She raised several further points, but the investigator 
didnt think these altered the outcome she has reached.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ks complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I know Mrs K 
will be disappointed as I can see she feels very strongly about this matter. But to uphold her 
complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Barclays have done something wrong or acted 
unfairly. And I dont think it did, Ill explain why.
But firstly, I should explain that Im aware that Mrs Ks husband has raised a similar 
complaint about his own ISA. This is being handled separately. So, for clarity, in this decision 
Im only looking at Mrs Ks complaint. I make no findings or comment on Mr Ks complaint.   
The crux of Mrs Ks complaint is Barclays insistence that she had to attend a branch with ID 
before it would accept her ISA transfer request, when previous ISA providers havent 
required her to do so.
I acknowledge that the information on the government website about ISA transfers doesnt 
say an individual is required to visit a branch with ID. But I consider the information provided 
on this website to be generic to all ISA providers. Given the number of ISA providers in the 
UK, I wouldnt expect the government website to list any individual requirements that 
individual ISA providers may have.
I find it reasonable that each individual ISA provider decides its own laid down procedures 
for accepting ISA transfers. And I dont consider it to be unusual that ISA providers have 
different procedures for new and existing customers. 
I would expect each ISA provider to make it clear what its individual requirements are. So, I 
have looked at Barclays procedures relating specifically to ISA transfers. And I can see that 
in the section headed How to apply, it says New to Barclays? You can apply in branch with 
proof of ID and your address. This information can be found within this link: 
https://www.barclays.co.uk/savings/isas/1-year-flexible-cash-isa/.
I can see that Mrs K has provided a screenshot from Barclays website headed How do I 
transfer an ISA in Online Banking, which I have considered. But I find this relates to existing 
Barclays customers - or at least customers who have a personal profile already on Barclays 
systems. I say this because non-Barclays customers wouldnt have access to its online 
banking platform. So, this doesnt apply in Mrs Ks circumstances as she doesnt hold a 
Barclays account. 
Mrs K has, however, told us that she and her husband have an insurance product with 
Barclays. Our investigator made enquires with Barclays after she had initially issued her 
view on Mrs Ks complaint. And she has explained to Mrs K that her enquiries had found that 
the policy Mrs K had referred to is linked to Mrs Ks husbands bank account. And while             
Mrs K is covered as a family member on the policy, she is not the policy holder. So, Im 
satisfied that Mrs K isnt a Barclays customer in her own right and doesnt have a customer 
profile set up with it.  
Mrs K has provided a screenshot from Barclays website which indicates a new customer 
can apply for a bank account on-line. But I dont find it unusual for account providers to have 
different procedures for different products. As per the link above, Im satisfied Barclays 
process - for new customers wishing to transfer an ISA, is to visit a branch with ID. While 
Mrs K may not consider this necessary, it's for Barclays to decide how it does business. 
I note Mrs K has mentioned that she was also told to open a current account with Barclays. 
So, I have listened to the recording of the conversation Mrs K had with Barclays when she 
enquired about transferring her ISA. And Im satisfied that Barclays told Mrs K the purpose of 
the branch visit with ID was to create a customer profile to enable it to accept the ISA 
transfer, rather than she had to open a current account.
Mrs K has said that Barclays hasnt shown any consideration for people who may not be 
able to attend a branch  for example, due to a disability. And I accept that Barclays would 
need to consider reasonable adjustments for those who need them. Here, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Mrs K made Barclays aware of a need for any adjustments. So, I can't 
fairly conclude it was wrong for Barclays not to offer her any. 
Overall, I appreciate that Mrs K says her experience of transferring her ISA with other 
providers has been different to Barclays procedures. But I dont find that Barclays has done 
anything wrong when it asked Mrs K  as a new ISA customer to the bank, to attend a 
branch with ID to set up a customer profile. So, I wont be asking Barclays to take any further 
action in respect of this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman