DRN-2984123
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the redress being offered to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) on a credit card. 
What happened
Mr M complained to HSBC that he had been mis-sold PPI on a credit card account taken in 
2002. 
In June 2013 HSBC upheld the complaint and made an offer to put the matter right. The 
payment wasnt made to Mr M. HSBC said it didnt receive any payment instruction from 
him, but Mr M said he did make contact with HSBC and had chased for payment. 
A payment of £1,220.92 was made to Mr M in March 2021. And our adjudicator who 
considered the complaint asked HSBC to update its offer with further interest which it agreed 
to do. This resulted in additional offer of £152.76. Our adjudicator explained this to Mr M as 
well as how the interest payment was calculated. The adjudicator also thought the contact 
HSBC had had with Mr M since the offer was originally made in 2013 was satisfactory. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the offer. He didnt think HSBC had updated it with the additional 
interest due on the payment being made since it was originally offered to him in 2013. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the complaint has already been upheld and HSBC has agreed to pay redress, I will not 
be considering the merits of the PPI sale. But I will be looking at the compensation that has
been offered, and whether I think it is fair.
When a business agrees to settle a complaint, we expect it to, as far as possible, put the
customer back in the position they would have been in had they not taken out the PPI policy.
Id expect it to refund the premiums paid for PPI, any interest paid on the premiums and any
further charges caused by the PPI. To do this, the business should compare the actual
account balance each month with what the balance might have looked like each month if the
PPI hadnt been charged.
We asked HSBC for a breakdown of its calculations and from reviewing that, I think what it
has done seems to be fair.
HSBC has provided a spreadsheet to show the start and end date of the policy, the PPI 
premiums that were charged (£499.88) and the interest charged to the card (£197.67) plus 
statutory interest at a rate of 8% (less tax) on that balance for the time Mr M has been out of 
pocket (£676.13) and which was up until the date of  calculation, the 9 July 2021.This gives 
rise to the total of £1,373.68 which is the amount that Mr M has now received spread over 
the two payments HSBC has made.  
What HSBC has done is what I would expect to see when a business pays redress for a PPI 
mis-sale. And this includes the statutory interest at a rate of 8% which I am satisfied has 
been updated since the offer was originally made in 2013. So overall, I think the offer made 
by HSBC is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the offer made by HSBC UK Bank Plc
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. As HSBC UK Bank Plc has
already paid the compensation to Mr M, it doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman