DRN-4312399
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed him to exceed his authorised overdraft
limit when he was experiencing financial difficulty and that HSBC wouldnt provide a debt
consolidation loan to him.
What happened
Mr P has a HSBC current account which had a £5,000 overdraft facility. For several years,
while Mr P was experiencing financial difficulty, HSBC allowed him to exceed his agreed
overdraft facility, often by a significant amount. Mr C wasnt happy about this, and he also
wasnt happy that HSBC had declined his application for a personal loan hed applied for to
consolidate his debts with them. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr P and explained that it was at their discretion as to whether they
were willing to provide a loan to an applicant customer and that in this instance they werent
willing to provide a loan to Mr P. And HSBC also didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by allowing
Mr P to exceed the agreed overdraft limit on his account. Mr P wasnt satisfied with HSBCs
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel HSBC had acted unfairly
by not providing a loan to Mr P. But they did feel that HSBC should have recognised from
how Mr P had managed his HSBC current account that hed been in financial difficulty for
several years and so should have intervened. As such, they recommended that HSBC
should reimburse all interest and charges incurred by Mr P on the account from March 2017
onwards. Mr P didnt feel the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator went fair
enough, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 July 2023 as follows:
Our investigator felt that it should have been apparent to HSBC from Mr Ps current account
statements that Mr P had been in financial difficulty for several years and that HSBC should
reasonably have acted to offer financial assistance to Mr P in recognition of this.
However, having reviewed Mr Ps current account statements from March 2017 onwards, I
dont agree with our investigators assessment here. And this is because I dont feel that the
spending that took place on the account should reasonably be considered as being
potentially indicative of a person in financial difficulty.
The reason I say this is because theres a significant amount of leisure spending on the
account from March 2017 to recent times. And I dont feel that such an amount of leisure
spending is consistent with someone in financial difficulty.
Additionally, I dont feel that its unreasonable for a bank such as HSBC to allow an account
holder to exceed their agreed overdraft limit and go into an unauthorised overdraft. And I
note that information about what interest and charges apply to unauthorised overdrafts was
readily available to Mr P on HSBCs website and would have been apparent to him from the
interest and charges he was incurring on the account as per his monthly statements.
Indeed, I feel that it was for Mr P, as the account holder, to have managed his leisure
spending such that he didnt exceed his agreed overdraft limit. And I dont feel it would be
fair to instruct HSBC to reimburse the interest and charges that Mr P incurred because he
exceeded his agreed overdraft limit, given the large amount of leisure spending that Mr Ps
account statements demonstrate.
Furthermore, while I can appreciate how Mr P would be unhappy that HSBC werent willing
to provide a personal loan to him, Im satisfied that its a commercial decision which HSBC
are entitled to make as to whether theyre willing to offer a loan to an applicant customer or
not. And, given how Mr P had managed his current account and had frequently exceeded his
agreed overdraft limit, I dont feel that HSBCs decision to not provide a loan to Mr P was
unreasonable or unfair.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting here, but it follows from all that above
that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly in how theyve allowed Mr P to exceed his
authorised overdraft limit or by declining his application for a personal loan. And it follows
from this that my provisional decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint or
instructing HSBC to take any action. This includes that I wont be requiring HSBC to pay the
interest and charges from March 2017 onwards, or pay £100 compensation to Mr P, as
previously recommended by our investigator.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr P and HSBC the opportunity to respond and 
to provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved 
to a final decision. However, neither Mr P nor HSBC responded to my provisional decision. 
In the absence of any response from party, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here 
in confirmation of my provisional decision whereby I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
therefore confirm that my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint accordingly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman