DRN-3394817
The complaint
Mr C says Motor Insurance Company Limited (MICL) held the wrong details for him in 
relation to his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) and alloy wheel repair and tyre insurance 
policies. He believes the discrepancy would have stopped him from claiming on the policies 
had he needed to do so.
All references in this decision to MICL include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
In contacting MICL in May 2021 to cancel his policies and arrange a proportional refund of 
premiums, Mr C discovered the cover was recorded against the wrong make of car. 
Believing this to mean he effectively hadnt been covered since the policies started in 2018, 
he asked MICL for a full refund of all the premiums hed paid from the start.
In rejecting Mr Cs complaint, MICL said a validation certificate had been sent to him in 2018 
showing the wrong car manufacturer and that he hadnt pointed out the error to it at the time. 
MICL said, in any case, that it would have amended the cover at any time and considered 
any claims from Mr C had the need arisen (which it hadnt).
Unhappy with MICLs response, Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They felt that, although 
there was a discrepancy in MICLs records regarding what make of car was covered by the 
policies, it was likely MICL would have honoured any valid claim that was made.  
As Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. In summary, Mr C said he understood any claim would have needed the 
involvement of the relevant car dealership, meaning claiming wouldnt have been as 
straightforward as had been suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand if Mr C was surprised and confused regarding why MICL held the wrong 
car details. The initial validation certificate issued at the start of the policy in 2018 shows the 
wrong vehicle make. It seems Mr C didnt spot the error at the time, although subsequent 
policy paperwork shows the correct vehicle make. So, I can see how that might have been 
missed.
That said, even if I thought MICL was responsible for the discrepancy  and on the available 
evidence I dont think that  Id also need to consider what impact if any this has had on 
Mr C. And, if it has, to decide what loss if any he might have suffered as a result.
In terms of financial loss, Im not satisfied that Mr Cs suffered any. Its not in dispute that 
Mr C didnt have to claim on the policies before he requested that they be cancelled. So, its 
not as though a claims been turned down because of the discrepancy. And MICL offered a 
refund for the remainder of the cover when it was cancelled, so I dont believe Mr Cs been 
treated less favourably in that regard due to the mismatch. 
Of course, we cant be sure as to what would have happened had Mr C needed to make a 
claim. But I dont follow the argument that a claim would likely have been declined or 
significantly complicated by the fact that some records showed the wrong make of car. Or 
that the car was effectively uninsured for GAP and alloy wheels and tyres for the entire time, 
as Mr C believes. 
I say that because, when Mr C called MICL to cancel the cover in May 2021, it became 
apparent to both parties that some details had been recorded incorrectly. Instead of denying 
that Mr Cs car had ever been covered by the policies, I gather MICL simply made a note in 
its records and processed the cancellation as requested. On balance, I find thats what it 
would have done for any other customer where the make of car was recorded correctly.   
As I say, I can see how Mr C would have been surprised and confused to discover some of 
the details MICL held were wrong. But I dont think thats enough in itself to warrant an 
award of compensation  for either financial or non-financial loss  in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman