DRN-2452172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage in 2005. 
Santander merged with the business that Mr and Mrs M dealt with originally when taking out 
this mortgage with PPI and it is responsible for dealing with their complaint. So Ill just refer 
to Santander in my decision. 
What happened
The mortgage was in joint names and the PPI covered both Mr and Mrs M for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
findings. 
Mr and Mrs M mainly say that it wasnt made clear that the PPI was optional. They say that 
they were told they had to have PPI and this policy was recommended to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs M mightve forgotten some of the details of 
this sale as it was so long ago. This means that what Mr and Mrs M say isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at everything Ive been told 
and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
I've seen a record of Mr and Mrs Ms discussion with the mortgage advisor they met with at 
Santander. A letter was sent to them following that meeting summing up the main things that 
they had discussed. This mentions that the advisor recommended a policy which provided 
them with accident, sickness and unemployment cover - and that Mr and Mrs M accepted 
this recommendation. Theres nothing to make me think that this doesnt accurately reflect 
the discussion Mr and Mrs M had with the advisor - and this isnt wording that suggests to 
me that Mr and Mrs M were told that the PPI was something they had to take out.
And on the mortgage application Mr and Mrs M completed theres an option to say if they 
didnt want PPI. So, although I dont know exactly how the PPI was presented or explained, 
I think that the mortgage paperwork showed that it was up to Mr and Mrs M to say whether 
or not they wanted PPI. 
Mr and Mrs M ticked the box to say they wanted PPI. 
Santander then sent Mr and Mrs M a personalised illustration showing details of the 
mortgage and PPI they had applied for. This makes it clear that they werent required to take 
out any insurance through the lender  and the only insurance that they had to have for the 
mortgage wasnt PPI. 
It also showed details of the PPI theyd taken under the heading Optional Insurance. 
Santander also sent Mr and Mrs M a letter (the welcome letter) which included policy 
information and details of the cover theyd taken out. Contact details were provided in case 
Mr and Mrs M had any questions about this. Mr and Mrs M couldve queried the policy then if 
PPI wasnt something they wanted. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that 
happened.
So all this makes me think that it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs M at the time that taking 
out PPI was a matter of choice. And, on balance, I think its likely that they wanted to protect 
their home by taking out the PPI offered and it was added to their account when they 
requested it.
Santander advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy. So it had to make sure it was 
suitable for them, as well as giving them clear information so they could decide if they 
wanted to take it out.
Looked at overall, PPI seems to have been right for Mr and Mrs M based on what Ive seen 
of their joint circumstances at the time. The policy covered Mr and Mrs M for up to 
12 months per claim if they were too sick or disabled to work or in the event of unexpected 
unemployment.  
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs M told us about their sick pay entitlement at the 
time. They told us they were each entitled to sick pay for a month and there was a possibility 
of discretionary sick pay being paid over and above this. 
But I think that all Mr and Mrs M could safely rely on when they took out the PPI was their 
contractual entitlement. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when it doesn't have to isnt 
as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit in the event of a 
successful claim.
PPI wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits  and for significantly longer than they 
couldve depended on their employers to pay them sick pay. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy providing Mr and Mrs M with long term 
protection. So I think the PPI was suitable and the policy offered them useful benefits. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But 
Mr and Mrs M dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. So its unlikely that 
knowing more about this wouldve put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the PPI.
I dont know how the PPI costs and benefits were explained to Mr and Mrs M. Its possible 
that Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better. But Mr and Mrs M chose to take out the PPI when they were aware they had the option to decline the cover if they didnt 
want to pay for it. And they were given advance notice of the amount theyd be charged each 
month for the PPI in the welcome letter Santander sent them  along with information about 
their cancellation rights if PPI wasnt any longer what they wanted. 
So it seems to me that Mr and Mrs M were happy to pay to have the cover they wanted at 
the time. And I've seen nothing to make me think that Mr and Mrs M found paying for the 
policy difficult  it seems to have been affordable for them.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of 
time. Their home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI offered Mr and Mrs M protection and peace of mind that their mortgage payments were 
covered in the event that they couldnt work. Given the benefits it offered them, and their 
situation at the time, I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve still taken the policy out even if 
Santander had given them clearer information. 
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result of anything Santander did wrong. 
This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Im sorry that this will be a disappointing decision for Mr and Mrs M but I hope that the way 
Ive set things out helps to explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman