DRN-3871842
The complaint
Mr G complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) gave him a loan he 
couldnt afford to repay. Mr G explained at the time he was granted this loan he had a 
number of outstanding credit card accounts as well as high-cost loans in default. 
What happened
Mr G took one loan from Valour for £900 on 24 January 2022. Mr G was due to make 12 
monthly repayments of £150. Mr G has had some difficulties repaying this loan and an 
outstanding balance remains.  
Following Mr Gs complaint Valour wrote to him with a final response letter on 
14 March 2022. Valour explained it had carried out a proportionate check and these checks 
showed it that Mr G had a sufficient amount of disposable income to afford the loan 
repayments he was committed to making. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Valour made a reasonable 
decision to lend the loan based on the information Valour gathered about Mr Gs income and 
expenditure as well as the credit search results which showed the loan repayments to be 
affordable.
 
Our adjudicator accepted that Mr G had taken other loans from other providers, but these 
didnt appear in the credit search results Valour received  the adjudicator suggested this 
may have been because of some of the loans had been taken out at a different address. 
She also didnt think Valour needed to start to verify the information Mr G provided which 
meant she didnt think it needed to take a look at his bank statements. 
Mr G said he didnt agree, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr G said Valour 
shouldve checked his bank statements and he had other money being received into his 
account which wasnt his income. Mr G also said the credit checks were insufficient and so 
the lending was irresponsible. 
Valour didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G.
Valour was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied Valour 
carried out proportionate checks which showed it that Mr G could afford the loan 
repayments, Ive explained why below. 
I understand from Valour that Mr G has raised a separate complaint about the setting up of 
an affordable repayment plan and working with Mr G in order to pay down the balance. Once 
a final response letter has been received, Mr G can, if he wishes, bring that other complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As another complaint appears to have been raised this decision will only focus on whether 
Valour did all it ought to have done before advancing the loan.  
Valour has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr G for details of his 
income and expenditure. Mr G on the verification telephone call confirmed his monthly 
income as being £4,500  which is what was submitted as part of his application. Valour at 
the time, was entitled to rely on this figure as it didnt have anything to show that this was 
likely to be an inaccurate amount. Mr G declared monthly expenditure of £3,925 and this was again confirmed on the telephone 
verification call with the Valour agent. This included repayments to other creditors of around 
£1,200 per month which Valour discovered from its credit search. Based on the checks 
carried out, Valour believed Mr G had monthly disposable income of £575 which was more 
than sufficient for it to reasonably believe he could afford the commitment of £150 per 
month. 
Before this loan was approved Valour also carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received. I want to add that 
although Valour carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let 
alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Valour received may not entirely reflect 
the information Mr G has provided in the credit report he has sent to us. There could be for a 
number of reasons for this, such as Valour only asking for certain pieces of information such 
as the number of active credit accounts and/or Mr G having opened new accounts that 
wouldnt yet appear in the results provided to Valour. But what Valour couldnt do, is carry 
out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
So, although Mr G has provided screen shots of his full credit report, Im not, considering 
them, because Valour did a credit search and has provided the results, so I can see what it 
actually saw before it approved the loan. In my view, Valour was also entitled to rely on the 
results it was given as it didnt have anything else to suggest the results were in anyway 
inaccurate. 
So, Ive taken a look at the results to see whether there was anything contained within the 
results which may have prompted Valour to have carried out further checks  such as 
reviewing bank statements or other documentation or possibly have declined Mr Gs 
application. 
Having reviewed these results, there isnt anything in the results, that I can see that wouldve 
led Valour to have carried out further checks. For example, for Mr Gs active accounts there 
werent any late payment or default markers. The only adverse marker was one high-cost 
credit account which was one month in arrears in June 2018. However, this was too far 
removed from the loan start date for Valour to think Mr G was having problems especially 
considering there were no other adverse payment markers recorded on the credit check 
results. 
While I know Mr G was advanced a £5,000 loan by a high-cost credit provider on 
5 January 2022, around three weeks before this loan was advanced, this loan didnt appear 
in the credit check results provided to Valour and therefore it wouldnt have known about it. 
And that is not unusual as new accounts can take several weeks to appear on a credit 
record.
Valour did know that Mr G had two current accounts and six credit card accounts  two of 
which had been opened in November 2021. However, these accounts were within their limits 
and there werent any obvious repayment problems. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Valour to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr G had provided.
So, while I can see that Mr G has provided copies of his bank statements, I dont think 
Valour wouldve needed to have made checks to the extent that it wouldve been prompted to view these. Given this was the first loan and for £900 with a relatively modest term length, 
I think it wouldve been disproportionate for these to have been considered. 
There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr G was having financial difficulties or that 
the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
Given it was a new lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Valour to have relied on 
the information Mr G provided about his income and expenditure figures which showed he 
had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. In 
addition, I do think it was reasonable for Valour to have relied on the results it received from 
the credit reference agency. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Gs complaint. There is an outstanding balance due, and I 
would remind Valour of its regulatory obligation to treat Mr G fairly and with forbearance  if 
necessary.  
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman