DRN-3310158
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Bank of Scotland, (BoS), mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance, (MMPI), policy with a mortgage.
What happened
Ms Y took out a MPPI policy at the same time as taking out a mortgage with BoS in 2001. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms Y didnt agree 
with this view, so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ys case.
Because of the time that has passed, BoS no longer has any record to confirm whether the 
MPPI sale took place in person, by post or over the phone. Or whether BoS recommended 
to Ms Y that she should take out the insurance. But in any event, these points dont 
change my decision.
Because the sale was so long ago, BoS no longer has all the paperwork signed by Ms Y. 
And it is not required to keep papers for this length of time. So, Ive had to make my 
decision based on the information that I do have and what we know generally about the 
sale of MPPI policies. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, (as 
some of it is here), Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances. Im satisfied that these approaches are a fair and reasonable way of 
reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Ms Y, but Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. I explain why below:
Ms Y says that she never gave her consent to take out the policy. I have no reason to 
doubt that that is what she now recalls about the discussions and /or correspondence 
relating to the sale of her mortgage and MPPI. But she is trying to remember events that 
took place over 20 years ago. And I dont think that its fair and reasonable to rely solely on 
her memory. And, in the absence of any more persuasive evidence, I dont consider that 
Ive anything on which to conclude that BoS just set up the policy for her without first 
discussing it and making it clear that the policy was optional, or without getting her 
agreement to take it. 
From the information I have, on balance, Im satisfied that Ms Y was eligible for the MPPI.
If BoS recommended that Ms Y take out the policy it needed to have taken reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable for her. Because of the time that has passed, I dont 
know what steps BoS actually took. But, in any event, I find that the policy was suitable. I 
say this taking into account what I know about Ms Ys circumstances and by reference to 
the terms and conditions of the policy. This is because I find:
Ms Y wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ms Y has sent us an extract of a job offer from a company dated some six months 
before she bought the MPPI. I have seen nothing to suggest that Ms Y didnt accept 
this offer and start employment with that company. The offer says that Ms Y would 
have the benefit of the companys sick scheme. And further, following 12 months 
continuous employment with the company, she would be automatically enrolled in an 
income protection scheme. The information Ms Y has given us shows that after 13 
weeks continuous absence through illness or injury, this scheme would have paid Ms Y 
75% of her basic salary, subject to deduction of Employment and Support Allowance. 
But it doesnt show for how long these payments would be made. Ms Y says that 
because of these benefits she had no need of the MPPI to help with her mortgage 
payments.
On balance, however, I dont agree with Ms Y that she had no need of the MPPI policy. 
Ms Y told us that she would have received full pay from her employer for 4 weeks. It 
may be that she would also have received a proportion of her pay for a period after 
that. But it seems that, had she been off work for longer than 4 weeks, she would have 
suffered an income shortfall, even once the income protection scheme started to pay 
out, because the payments she would have received would have been less than her full 
salary. Ms Y says that she also had some savings which she could have used towards 
making her mortgage repayments. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would 
have paid out approximately £360 a month. These payments would have been made 
for up to 24 months. And would have been paid in addition to any sick pay, savings, 
and any payments from the income protection scheme, leaving those available to help 
her meet her other expenses while she wasnt working because of illness or accident. 
Further, the policy in addition covered Ms Y for involuntary unemployment. 
Also, the income protection scheme was a benefit of Ms Ys employment and not one 
she had arranged herself. So I find its reasonable to assume that it would only have 
covered Ms Y while she was employed by that particular company, where it seems she 
had only started a few months before taking out her mortgage. So, overall, I find that 
the MPPI could have been of use to Ms Y;
The cost of the policy was initially about £22 a month and was competitively priced by 
reference to other similar policies available in the market at the time. And it offered 
reasonable benefits. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were 
unaffordable for Ms Y. In any event, had she later felt that she couldnt afford the 
policy, or she no longer wanted it, she could have cancelled it at any time without 
further cost, as it was paid for monthly.
Whether or not BoS advised Ms Y to take the MPPI it ought to have given Ms Y clear, fair, 
and not-misleading information about its main features. This is so that she could decide 
whether it met her needs or not. Its possible that the information BoS gave Ms Y wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive found nothing on which to conclude that she didnt 
choose to take the policy and, as Ive explained above, it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think clearer information about the MPPI would have put her off taking out the cover. I say this, 
particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that could have arisen had Ms Y not 
been able to make her monthly payments on her mortgage, which was secured on her 
home.
This means that Ms Y hasnt lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with 
BoS sales process. So theres nothing I require BoS to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman