DRN-3533775
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has refused to refund payments 
he made to what he believed were legitimate investment trading companies.  These 
payments were made using Mr Ws Tesco Mastercard credit card.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, between August to October 2019, Mr S made several payments to what he thought 
was his trading account with different companies.  At the time, Mr S says he believed that 
these companies were legitimate investment trading companies.  However, he says he lost 
all his money and discovered that the companies concerned were operating a scam.
Mr S made these payments using his Tesco Mastercard credit card, which amounted to 
about £12,000.  Mr S asked Tesco to try to recover the money he lost.  As this did not 
happen, he raised a complaint which he referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  In short, he did not think Mr 
S had any chargeback rights.  However, he held that Mr S did have a valid claim for 
misrepresentation and breach of contract under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Therefore, he suggested Tesco pay Mr S all the money he lost (£12,014.98).
Mr S accepted the investigators findings, but Tesco did not.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 27 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not agree with the investigators findings for reasons I set out below.
First, I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of 
this complaint, I have read and considered what has been provided.
Chargeback
I have first considered that Mr S had no valid chargeback rights under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme.  I say this because he did not have the evidence needed to satisfy the 
requirements of the scheme rules.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
I have also considered whether Mr Ss payments attracted any section 75 rights.  As a 
starting point, I think it would be helpful if I set out what the section says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor 
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
So, one of the requirements under the 1974 Act is that there is a debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c).  
In this case, Mr S is the debtor; Tesco the creditor; and the alleged scam companies the 
suppliers.  This relationship is referred to as a DCS chain and needs to exist  unbroken  
for section 75 rights to apply.  However, Mr Ss payments were not made directly to any of 
the alleged scam companies.  They were instead made to several different cryptocurrency 
exchanges which carried out their services accordingly.  Because of this, the DCS chain in 
this case is broken.
Therefore, I am satisfied that Tesco was not liable to Mr S under section 75 regarding 
his payments.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco responded to say it had no further comments to add at this point.  Mr S responded 
stating: 
Obviously, that is very disappointing from my perspective, but I understand the 
Ombudsman's argument. However, I will just point out that the initial payment made on 
8/8/19 for the sum of £267.94, was made directly to [one of the alleged scam companies]. In 
all the other cases, I was manipulated to go to an exchange and send them the 
cryptocurrency.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Ss response, I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
findings.  I say this because having looked at Mr Ss bank statements, I can see that the 
payment he refers to went to a recipient which does not have the name of the alleged scam 
company concerned.  Further, based on the evidence before me, I have not seen anything 
satisfactory linking the recipient to the alleged scam company which would keep the DCS 
chain intact for the purposes of section 75.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman