DRN-3066921
The complaint
Mr M complains Provident Personal Credit Limited is asking him to repay loans he didnt 
take out. He wants them to stop pursuing him for the debt.
What happened
Mr M says a former girlfriend took out loans in his name without his permission. He disputes 
taking out several loans between 2016 and 2017. And he says he could not have taken out 
some of the loans because he was imprisoned for the periods when the loans were taken 
out. Mr M also disclosed he suffers from a disability which is made worse by Provident 
pursuing him for the debt.
Provident says Mr took out the loans and made weekly repayments in the past.
An investigator at our service didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They found:
Providents loan application process was face to face. An agent would attend Mr Ms 
home and take weekly repayments. They would at first require identification, but then 
would know who Mr M was and what he looked like. Because the loans overlapped, 
the same agent attended Mr Ms address to collect payments and when new loans 
were taken out. So, its unlikely the agent dealt with someone other than Mr M.
Mr M was not imprisoned during the time any of the loans were taken out. He was 
living at his address when the loans were taken out and payments collected. It was 
notable that weekly payments stopped during the period he was imprisoned, which 
would support it being him who made the repayments up to that point. If someone 
else had been making the repayments, it didnt make sense for them to then stop.
Mr M disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. He asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so his complaint was given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why:
Its not possible to know what happened for certain when the loans were taken out 
and repayments collected. But my role is to make findings on what I think is most 
likely to have happened based on all the circumstances and evidence before me.
Mr M doubts Providents advisor attended his address. He feels CCTV should be 
obtained from that time period. But our service is informal. While we can consider 
CCTV, we do not have the same powers of the police or a court of law in relation to 
third party evidence. And given how long ago the loans were taken out, I doubt CCTV 
exists from that time period to review.
Mr M said he never signed the loan agreements for the loans. But Provident have 
confirmed its agents use a mobile application when customers wanted to take out 
loans. They obtained an electronic signature from Mr M for each loan, he would have 
been given each loan in cash, and the agreements were then sent to him. So, I dont 
find the lack of a written signature is telling.
Other than Mr M saying he didnt take out the loans or make repayments, I cannot 
fairly conclude Provident are not being truthful or that its agent was involved in 
something improper. There isnt persuasive evidence to support this conclusion. 
Instead, Im satisfied Providents usual lending process was most likely followed and 
its agent attended Mr Ms address each week to collect payments and when new 
loans were taken out. Provident has provided full records of repayment for each loan 
and I find this evidence persuasive.
I have seen the dates the loans were taken out and Mr M wasnt imprisoned at those 
times. So, Im satisfied he would have been able to take the loans out, and that he 
was residing at the address Provident had for him.
Providents records show that one agent primarily dealt with the collections and 
taking out of the loans Mr M disputes. So, I doubt that agent would have mistaken  
Mr M for his former girlfriend. And I doubt someone else was present each week in      
Mr Ms home dealing with the agent, as Mr M would have likely questioned their 
presence and what was happening.
The weekly loan repayments stopped when Mr M was imprisoned. This supports it 
being him who made the previous payments and that he couldnt continue from that 
point onwards. Its possible that he may no longer recall taking out the loans, but Im 
satisfied he did take them out.
Mr M says being pursued for the loan debt is affecting his health. And I am sorry to 
hear how he has been affected. But I am not upholding his complaint, so I will not be 
directing Provident to not hold him liable for a debt which is rightfully owed.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint for the reasons I have given above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman