DRN-2707552
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank (Scottish 
Widows) didnt offer them a lower interest rate mortgage, causing them financial loss. As 
most of our contact has been with Mr C, to keep things simple my decision will largely refer 
to him.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were taking out a mortgage to purchase a house. Mr C is a chartered financial 
planner, and says he was both the adviser and customer in this case. Mr C decided on a 
particular mortgage with Scottish Widows. 
As Mr C was expecting to exchange contracts on his property purchase, he called Scottish 
Widows on 18 November 2019 and said he wanted to take out a five year fixed rate 
mortgage at 1.99% interest. Scottish Widows processed his instruction. And Mr Cs property 
purchase completed ten days later.
Mr C later found that when hed called Scottish Widows, it had recently released a five year 
fixed rate mortgage at a lower interest rate. Mr C thought Scottish Widows should have told 
him this, either when he called as a customer on 18 November 2019 or by email to his own 
specific work email address as a financial planner. So Mr C complained to Scottish Widows. 
Scottish Widows said it was unable to provide any advice about its products and had sent 
the brokers on its panel a notification that some of its interest rates would reduce from 
18 November 2019. And when Mr C called on 18 November 2019 to select his mortgage, it 
processed his instruction and at the end told Mr C interest rates had changed. Scottish 
Widows said Mr C had the opportunity to check rates and choose a new mortgage if he 
wanted.  And it later confirmed it had been sending rate change notifications to the generic 
email address for Mr Cs firm, and this was the email address Mr Cs firm gave when 
registering on Scottish Widows panel of brokers.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said Scottish Widows hadnt made him aware 
of the lower interest rate mortgage when he called as a customer. And had incorrectly sent 
rate change notifications to his firms generic email address instead of to his own specific 
work email address. And that Scottish Widows hadnt handled his complaint properly by not 
initially logging it and not contacting him when it said it would. 
Scottish Widows confirmed it automatically sent change notifications to the brokers 
registered on its panel using the email address it held for those firms. It said it held the 
generic email address for Mr Cs firm and had never been instructed to change this.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said Scottish Widows hadnt done 
anything wrong when Mr C called on 18 November 2019 and wasnt required to advise him 
or inform him of new rates. But in any case, Scottish Widows sent change notifications to the 
address it held for Mr Cs firm. And that, when Mr C did call on 18 November 2019, Scottish 
Widows told him interest rates had recently changed. So she thought Mr C had the 
opportunity to check if a better interest rate was available before his property purchase 
completed.
Mr C disagreed. He said Scottish Widows breached the complaint response time limits set 
out by the Financial Conduct Authority. And that it hadnt set up his firms broker account 
properly, so that notifications werent going directly to advisers and brokers. He said Scottish 
Widows had a duty of care to tell its customers and brokers that the product theyd selected 
had been superseded by a better one  Mr C said all Scottish Widows had to say in the call 
on 18 November 2019 was that there was a new rate. And Mr C refuted the idea that he 
should have been checking the Scottish Widows portal every day in case rates changed.
Our investigator explained our service couldnt consider complaint handling as it wasnt a 
regulated activity. And confirmed shed listened to the 18 November 2019 call and heard that 
Scottish Widows told Mr C its interest rates had changed. 
As Mr C disagreed with our investigator, this complaint was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that Scottish Widows didnt tell him a lower interest rate was 
available, either as a financial planner via notifications to his own specific work email 
address, or as a customer when he called on 18 November 2019. So he took a mortgage at 
a higher interest rate than he should have.  
Its important to note that while Mr C may have been acting as adviser for himself and Mrs C, 
Mr and Mrs C can only bring this complaint against Scottish Widows on their own behalf as 
consumers. Mr and Mrs C are not bringing this complaint on behalf of Mr Cs firm. Its also 
important to note our service isnt free to look into every complaint brought to us. Instead we 
must abide by the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Dispute Resolution 
Handbook, known as the DISP rules. 
DISP rule 2.3 sets out the kind of activities we can consider complaints about. How a lender 
sets up and administers its broker accounts for the brokers on its panel doesnt fall under 
any of the activities listed in DISP 2.3. So I think the DISP rules mean I cant consider what 
Mr C says about Scottish Widows setting up his firms broker account incorrectly and 
sending rate change notifications to the wrong email address. 
Mr C says Scottish Widows had a duty of care to tell him about lower interest replacement 
products when he called on 18 November 2019. But Im satisfied Scottish Widows took 
reasonable steps to do this. Because Ive listened to the call and Ive heard that at the end of 
it, Scottish Widows tells Mr C that its interest rates had recently decreased. But Ive not seen 
any evidence to suggest that Mr C asked Scottish Widows to change the mortgage hed 
already asked for. 
As Scottish Widows wasnt providing advice, it wasnt responsible for checking whether this 
mortgage was right for Mr and Mrs C. And if rates changed following the application, it 
wouldve been down to the adviser arranging the mortgage to inform Mr C. I recognise this is 
problematic given Mr C was the adviser and he says he wasnt told about the new rates. 
However, as Ive explained, I cant consider the actions of Scottish Widows when it was 
dealing with Mr C in his capacity as a financial adviser rather than as a customer.Mr C has also said Scottish Widows didnt handle his complaint properly by not logging it 
initially, not contacting him when it said it would and not responding within the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys complaint response time limits. But complaint handling isnt an activity 
listed in DISP 2.3 and I dont think the particular complaint points Mr C has raised about 
Scottish Widows handling of his complaint are linked to it entering into a regulated mortgage 
contract with him and Mrs C. So I think the DISP rules mean I cant consider how Scottish 
Widows handled Mr Cs complaint.
Given all this, Im not asking Scottish Widows to do anything here, though I realise this will 
be very disappointing to Mr and Mrs C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman