DRN-4346546
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC had errors with their banking application (app) which 
had an impact on him.
What happened
Mr S says that he experienced a problem with Lloyds banking app which he endured for 4-5 
weeks. He says the problem was that the app either didnt open on his phone or tablet, or it 
would open briefly, then close before he could do what he wanted to do. He says he 
managed on a few occasions during this period to perform some activities, and he had been 
using the same method of banking for years without any problems until the app errors. Mr S 
says that he has made eight phone calls over a four week period about the issue and he 
estimated he had spent 6-8 hours on the phone to Lloyds. Mr S made a complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds partially upheld Mr S complaint. They said they had found no issues from their end 
as from the event logs they could see concurrent sessions open. They said this will lead to 
Mr S having difficulties logging on as it does not function properly and he will face errors as 
seen on the event logs, which is not a fault on their systems. Lloyds said Mr S spent a lot of 
time making calls to them about the app and they had not provided him with an explanation 
of why he was continuing to have issues logging on to the app, so they paid him £50 
compensation for the service he received. Mr S brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the £50 compensation was fair. She said Mr S was unable to get 
past the authentication page, and if he does, it shuts down or goes blank. When Mr S 
phoned Lloyds for help, Lloyds confirmed there was no record of any system problems that 
could explain Mr S app issues. She said theres no evidence to suggest the app issues are 
a result of a Lloyds error, so she couldnt hold them responsible. Mr S asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. He wanted £300 to resolve his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr S complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr S has about not been able to complete what he 
wanted to do before the app closed down, and I can sympathise with how incredibly 
frustrating this must have been for him over multiple weeks as hes told us how much he 
relies on the app. Im aware that he feels he has been treated respectfully and listened to 
regarding his concerns about the malfunctioning app over a period of eight weeks, but the 
issue has caused him considerable inconvenience, frustration and anxiety because of the 
issue. 
Lloyds have confirmed to me that at the time of Mr S complaint, they checked with their 
specialist Information Technology (IT) teams, who confirmed there were no wider IT issues
affecting customers, and they said there were very few if any similar complaints to Mr S. So 
I cant conclude that there were widespread issues during the timeframe that Mr S was 
unable to log into his app during the timeframe hes mentioned.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about Lloyds blaming him for whats happened due to 
concurrent sessions being open. Lloyds were unable to find any errors on their side. But Im 
persuaded that Lloyds have only mentioned this as is a known issue which can affect the log 
in for the app. Im also aware that if the app closes on Mr S then he may not have time to log 
out of the app, so this would be out of his control. But ultimately, Im persuaded theyve 
mentioned this as a possible solution to assist Mr S as opposed to blaming him for what has 
happened.
I say this as they have also mentioned other things that Mr S could do, such as to clear his 
cache and cookies from the app. They also suggested he updates his password or 
memorable information, and they gave him the phone number in order to do this. But as 
Lloyds couldnt identify an issue on their end, the concurrent sessions factor led them to 
believe this is what could have been the issue. 
Ive listened to a number of calls that Mr S had with Lloyds. The call handler on 6 February 
2023 asks Mr S to delete and reinstall the app, but this doesnt work. She confirms they have 
had no reports of the app not working so she says it must be Mr S device. Mr S then tries to 
log on with a different device (his tablet) and he was able to log in using this, so the call 
handler tells him the issue must be with his other device. 
Ive listened to an hour long call when Mr S returns from holiday and he still has issues 
logging in. The call handler suggests things for Mr S to do. Around the 33 minute mark of the 
call Mr S says that he can see his accounts now. But after Mr S is placed on hold while the 
call handler sees if he can pay a cheque in, Mr S tells the call handler on his return that the 
app has shut down when he tries to log in. The call handler logs a fault for Mr S, and he 
advises Mr S to ring back in a couple of days. And a complaint is later raised for him. 
Lloyds paid Mr S £50 for what happened. I know that Mr S told the complaint handler that he 
wanted £300 to resolve his complaint. But it would not be proportionate for me to award Mr S 
£300. This is because I cant evidence an error on Lloyds end. While I cant specifically say 
why Mr S experienced the problems he did, I do note that he was able to log into the app on 
his tablet on 6 February 2023, when he was unable to log into his phone app earlier in the 
call. So if there was an issue with the app, I would expect both apps to fail. If there was an 
issue with his log in details, or his facial recognition, then I would not expect his tablet would 
allow him to log in on this date, when the mobile phone app would close down after trying to 
authenticate him. 
Im persuaded that the £50 compensation that Lloyds paid Mr S is proportionate for what 
happened. While generally the staff on the calls were trying to help Mr S, I did identify some 
poor service. Mr S was told he was being transferred to the relevant team, but after being on 
hold he was told that department had closed for the day, so Mr S was inconvenienced by 
this. 
Ive also listened to a call where he tells the call handler the line went dead on one of the 
calls and nobody gave him a call back. Mr S was also given an incident number, but when 
he gave this to one of the call handlers, she was unable to locate the incident ticket. On 
another call he was placed on a fairly lengthy hold for him to pay a cheque in over the 
phone, but when the call handler returned, he told Mr S they couldnt do this. And Lloyds acknowledge they could have raised the complaint/incident to their IT team quicker. So while 
Im persuaded Lloyds let Mr S down on occasion and it would be frustrating to be on the 
phone as long as he was, as often as he was, £50 is in line with our awards for what 
happened here. So it follows I dont require Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman