DRN-2587383
The complaint
Ms G has complained about the way her mortgage was administered by Nationwide Building 
Society. Specifically, Nationwide gave Ms G incorrect information about how much shed 
need to pay each month to clear her mortgage balance.
To settle the complaint, Ms G would like Nationwide to compensate her and reprimand the 
staff member who gave her the incorrect information.
 
What happened
At the relevant time, 2018, Ms G had a mortgage with Nationwide of which £42,000 was on 
an interest-only basis covered by an endowment policy, and about £12,000 on a repayment 
basis. 
The annual statement for 2018 shows that the mortgage was due to end in June 2024, but 
the policy was due to mature in January 2020 and Ms G wanted to pay off the entire 
mortgage by that date. She asked Nationwide how much shed need to pay towards the 
repayment part in order to pay it off by January 2020. She was told by Nationwide shed 
need to pay £911 per month. Ms G started making the overpayments.
Unfortunately, the figure was incorrect and Ms G wasnt paying enough to clear the 
repayment part of the mortgage by January 2020. Ms G didnt realise this until October 
2019, and at that point she complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide acknowledged it had made a mistake and that Ms G should have been paying 
£984 per month towards the mortgage. Nationwide calculated that Ms G had paid additional 
interest of £148.67, and adjusted the account accordingly. Nationwide also paid 
compensation of £150 for any trouble and upset caused to Ms G.
Ms G didnt think this was sufficient and in December 2019 she complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
In January 2020 the policy matured and was sufficient to repay the entire balance of the 
mortgage, including the remainder which was on a repayment basis.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He noted that the policy had been sufficient to pay 
off the full outstanding balance, which mitigated any shortfall that might otherwise have 
arisen. He also thought that Ms G ought to have realised from her statements that the 
amount she was paying wasnt likely to have cleared the balance by January 2020. On the 
other hand, he thought she was entitled to rely on what shed been told by Nationwide as 
being accurate.
Overall, the investigator was satisfied with Nationwides offer of redress in relation to the 
interest refund, but he thought the compensation for trouble and upset should be increased 
by a further £200. Nationwide agreed to this.
Ms G didnt accept the investigators findings. Ms G said she was unhappy that Nationwide 
wasnt required to pay any significant price for its incompetence and error. Ms G also didnt 
understand why Nationwide hadnt been required to reimburse her for the outstanding 
mortgage balance in January 2020 that arose from Nationwides error. Ms G also wondered 
what consequences the staff member whod made the error had faced.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue in this case is straightforward. Thats because Nationwide has accepted it made a 
mistake, and so I dont need to look into what happened or whether Nationwide is at fault; 
thats not in dispute. The only issue I need to decide is what compensation should be 
payable.
I will begin by explaining that we look at complaints against financial businesses as 
corporate entities, which means that we dont single out staff members or have any power to 
punish or discipline them. So although Ive noted what Ms G has said about this, its not 
something that falls within my remit; rather, its an internal matter for Nationwide.
Ms G has asked why Nationwide isnt required to refund her with the balance on the 
repayment part of her mortgage that was outstanding in January 2020. The reason 
Nationwide doesnt have to do this is because its money Ms G owed to Nationwide. 
I appreciate that, if the error hadnt been made, the additional capital would have been paid 
off month-by-month in the overpayments Ms G was making. But the effect of the error meant 
that Ms G paid less than the actual amount, and so that balance was due at the end of the 
mortgage term. 
Fortunately the policy proceeds were sufficient to clear the full balance of both the interest-
only mortgage and the remaining (small) capital balance. If it had not been, then Ms G would 
have needed to come to an arrangement with Nationwide for it to be repaid, or else allow the 
repayment part of the mortgage to continue until its contractual end date.
The balance of the repayment part of the mortgage was money that was always owed to 
Nationwide. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect Nationwide to 
write this off where it is legitimately owed under the terms of the mortgage contract. 
Nationwide refunded the additional interest on the unpaid capital balance, which I think is 
fair.
Putting things right
Nationwide acknowledged its error caused Ms G some trouble and upset. It originally offered 
compensation of £150, but has since agreed with the investigator that a further £200 should 
be paid. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. The total compensation of £350 reflects the 
worry and upset caused to Ms G, and the inconvenience to which she was put, particularly 
as she lives abroad and had to call internationally and from a different time zone.
Given this, Im satisfied that total compensation of £350 is appropriate in this case.
My final decisionMy final decision is that, in addition to the £150 compensation already offered, Nationwide 
Building Society must pay further compensation of £200 in full and final settlement of this 
complaint, making a total of £350 compensation. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman