DRN-1939850
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Ald Automotive Limited sought the first regular payment for a finance 
agreement before it was due.
What happened
In early April 2019 Mrs G agreed to enter into a finance agreement to fund the acquisition of 
a car. According to the contract she was due to make an initial payment of £1,196.86 and 
monthly sums of 398.85. 
The car was delivered on 3 May. Some 11 days later she says she was told there was a 
problem with the signature on the paperwork and after some exchanges she sent back the 
signed paperwork to the dealer. On 20 June she was informed by the dealer, who were 
agents of Ald, that there was a further problem with the paperwork and it had to be signed 
again. She requested the full contract so she could sign it again.
Ald then wrote to Mrs G to say the direct debit had not been set up and Mrs G paid the initial 
sum of £1,196.86 on 16 July. She says she was told the monthly direct debit would be set up 
to begin in July and that she owed the June payment. Mrs G disputed this as the contract 
wasnt completed until July. She offered to pay an additional £50 a month to clear the June 
payment. This was rejected by Ald as was her complaint. It did offer her the opportunity of 
paying of the arrears over a two month period. 
She brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Our investigator noted the agreement said 
payments were due following delivery. However, she thought that although the requirement 
for the paper work to be resigned meant Ald couldnt start collecting the payments by direct 
debit, this didnt mean the payments werent due.
She noted Mrs G was unhappy that the payment taken via the direct debit instruction wasnt 
allocated to the oldest invoice outstanding. However, our investigator said that if that had 
been done it would have resulted in all future payments being recorded as missed resulting 
in a negative impact on her credit file.
While she understood Mrs G may have found it inconvenient to have to pay the first two 
payments manually this was no reason why they were not due.
Mrs G didnt agree and asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up by law to resolve complaints quickly and with 
minimum formality. As an informal alternative to the courts, our aim is to level the playing 
field between the consumer and the business. It is not my role to make findings on legality.In simple terms Mrs G entered into an agreement under which an advance payment of 
£1,196.86 was due on the date of delivery of the car and the first regular payment was due 
during the calendar month after delivery. Mrs G chose to make payments on the 28th day of 
each month. After then a further 46 regular payments were due each calendar month 
beginning the month after the first regular payment.
The car was delivered on 3 May and so the advance payment was due then, but it wasnt 
paid until 16 July. The first regular payment was due in the calendar month after delivery 
which means it was due in June. It is regrettable that there were administrative issues due to 
Mrs Gs signature not being clear on the paperwork, caused possibly by a poor printer. My 
role is to decide what is fair and reasonable and it seems that it is fair and reasonable that as 
Mrs G took possession of the car at the beginning of May she should also make payments 
based on that start date regardless of when the paperwork was completed.
I am not aware that she refused to accept delivery of the car because the paperwork wasnt 
complete or that she sought to return it when she so discovered. Nor did she have to pay the 
advance payment on the delivery date as Ald had reason to expect. Payment of that sizable 
sum was deferred by some 10 weeks.
Ald recognised there were issues with the paperwork which could be resolved in due course 
and it let her have the car. In turn it is only fair that Mrs G makes payments at the expected 
time. As for the matter of applying the first direct debit payment to the June debt that would 
have an ongoing impact on her credit reference file which I doubt she would welcome. If Mrs 
G is facing financial difficulties I am sure Ald will treat her sympathetically. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28July2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman