DRN-4272101
The complaint
Mr B complains that AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Investcentre (AJB) has 
failed to effectively manage his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says that AJB 
incorrectly sold all his pension investments, rather than the requested investments, resulting 
in a loss when the error was corrected.
What happened
Mr B holds pension savings with AJB in his SIPP. He receives advice on those pension 
investments from a financial advisor. In March 2021 Mr Bs financial advisor advised Mr B to 
move part of his pension investments into a model portfolio operated by a firm I will call D. 
Mr B accepted that advice, and his financial advisor started to make the necessary 
arrangements with AJB using its online access to his pension plan.
The financial advisor faced some problems with making the change  it received an error 
message that suggested it wasnt able to invest only a part of Mr Bs pension savings into 
the model portfolio. So it discussed the problem with AJB and was advised that Mr B would 
need to open a separate Fund and Shares Service (F&SS) account to hold the model 
portfolio investments, leaving his other pension investments in the original F&SS account.
After some further administrative changes, such as the financial advisor completing a new 
investor partner form, that change was completed and the new F&SS account was opened. 
But, in error, Mr Bs original F&SS account remained linked to the model portfolio. Shortly 
afterwards D undertook a regular rebalancing activity on the portfolios that it managed. Since 
Mr Bs pension investments did not mirror the model portfolio, they were sold by D, in order 
for new investments to be made in line with the model portfolio investment approach.
Mr B and his financial advisor noticed the assets being sold. But, by that time, it was too late 
to stop the sale of the majority of the pension investments, although the sale of one 
structured product was cancelled. Mr B repurchased the investments that were sold in error, 
but dealing costs, foreign exchange costs, and market price movements meant he lost out. 
Mr B estimates that loss at around £16,000.
On behalf of Mr B, the financial advisor complained to AJB. He complained that AJB was 
aware that Mr Bs original F&SS account had been linked to the model portfolio, and that it 
had failed to make him sufficiently aware of the impact that would have. AJB didnt agree 
with the complaint. It said that its terms and conditions had been clearly set out, and that it 
was the financial advisor that was responsible for managing Mr Bs account. So Mr B 
brought his complaint to us.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the user 
guide AJB had provided to the financial advisor was clear in how AJB and D would deal with 
Mr Bs pension investments. So she didnt think AJB had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by AJB. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There are three regulated firms involved in the matters that led to Mr Bs complaint. His 
financial advisor provided the instructions to AJB on Mr Bs behalf. D started the rebalancing 
activity that led to the inadvertent sale of Mr Bs pension investments. And AJB, who are the 
subject of this complaint, provided the platform on which Mr Bs pension investments were 
held, and controlled the processes that governed how those accounts could be operated.
This complaint however only deals with the actions of AJB. So, whilst I will go on to explain 
that I dont think AJB did anything wrong, that shouldnt be taken as any conclusion that 
either of the other parties were at fault either. That would only be something that would be 
considered should Mr B decide to make a complaint about their actions. Whilst I will naturally 
need to consider how the other parties were involved in this complaint, I cannot make any 
findings of fault against them. But it does seem clear to me that something has gone wrong, 
and that Mr B has lost out as a result.
Mr B appears to have been guided in making his complaint by his financial advisor. That is 
entirely understandable since it was the financial advisor that managed the instructions on 
Mr Bs behalf. But that presents some difficulties in how I am able to deal with what 
happened. I think Mr Bs intentions were clear. He wanted to sell one of the pension 
investments that he held. And then he wanted to use the proceeds of that sale to invest in 
the model portfolio provided by D. But Mr B didnt want to make any changes to the other 
pension investments he held, on which he would continue to be advised by his 
financial advisor.
But Mr B had no direct dealings with AJB in implementing those instructions. He agreed the 
course of action with his financial advisor  and I dont think there is any dispute between 
Mr B and his financial advisor about what was intended. But the implementation of that 
instruction failed  and I think it would be reasonable to conclude that failure was either 
because the financial advisor failed to instruct it correctly, or because AJB failed to 
implement the instructions given by the financial advisor. But to reach a conclusion on that 
matter here, I need to consider the instructions given by the financial advisor as effectively 
having been placed by Mr B. So whilst my findings here will point to a failure in those 
instructions, and so by inference a failure by Mr B, I dont think on the basis of what I have 
seen so far that is the case. But it would be for another complaint investigation to ultimately 
determine whether the financial advisor, or Mr B, was responsible for the problems.In order for advisors to be allowed access to AJBs Bulk dealing and Model Portfolio Service 
firms were required to complete an advisor agreement form. I can see that the managing 
director of the firm that employed Mr Bs financial advisor completed that agreement form in 
December 2020. The form nominated Mr Bs financial advisor as a named user, and 
confirmed that the financial advisor had read the Bulk dealing and Model Portfolio Service 
user guide and acknowledged the risks to their clients investments set out in the guide, 
including the important notes section.
In that important notes section is a paragraph headed AJ Bell Investcentre client accounts 
held outside the model. It reads;
If you choose to manage your clients accounts using the Models and Bulk Deals 
tools, then all their investments including their cash balance will be treated as part of 
the model and must be managed using the model tools. It is not possible to hold a 
percentage of a clients account in the model and a percentage outside of it.
And that was precisely the problem that Mr Bs financial advisor faced when attempting to 
implement his instruction to sell a specific investment, and then use the proceeds to invest 
using the model portfolio provided by D whilst leaving the remaining investments untouched. 
It found it was unable to place just a portion of Mr Bs pension investments into the model 
portfolio so sought the assistance of AJB.
AJB appears to have readily understood the problem the advisor was experiencing and 
provided a workaround  the opening of an additional F&SS account to segment Mr Bs 
pension investments. And it appears that solution would have worked to achieve the 
objectives that Mr B had agreed. But the problem that arose was the existing F&SS account 
remained linked to the model portfolio service.
The model portfolio service provides for D to undertake regular rebalancing activities 
ensuring that any pension investments remain in line with the expected asset distributions. 
Clearly Mr Bs existing pension investments would not have been in line with that approach 
as they had been set on a bespoke basis in conjunction with his financial advisor. So, when 
the routine rebalancing activity commenced, and Mr Bs account was linked in its entirety to 
the model portfolio service, it was necessary for D to sell all his existing investments so they 
could be replaced with those of the model portfolio. It was that action that started around 
10 March 2021.
I think that AJBs instructions to Mr Bs financial advisor, both in the user guide he said he 
had read, and in the support he was given whilst attempting to set up the model portfolio, 
were clear. Any investments in an account linked to the model portfolio would fall entirely 
under the control of D, and would be subject to rebalancing activities. That was why it was 
necessary for Mr B to open a second F&SS account. I cannot therefore conclude that it was 
a failing of AJBs processes that led to the sale of Mr Bs pension investments as part of the 
rebalancing activities.
Mr B has said that AJB should have provided further guidance, or an additional warning, to 
his financial advisor that his original F&SS account remained linked to the model portfolio. 
He says that AJB should have been aware of that link as it had been discussed in an email 
his financial advisor had sent to the firm in early March.
I agree with Mr B that his financial advisor had told AJB that he had linked the original F&SS 
account to the model portfolio. That information though was provided in relation to the 
problems that the advisor was facing in setting up Mr Bs account  I dont think that the 
advisor made any request of AJB about any implications of that link remaining in place, or 
gave any indication that it wouldnt be removed.AJBs advice to the financial advisor was that the model portfolio link should only be added 
to the new F&SS account. So I dont think it would have been unreasonable for AJB to have 
thought it likely that any previous links, and specifically the link to the original account, would 
have been removed by the financial advisor. And given the relatively arms-length 
relationship between AJB and the D when the rebalancing took place, I dont think AJB 
should have noticed any problems and queried the transactions with Mr B or his 
financial advisor.
I have considered that Mr B says that the rebalancing activities took place earlier than might 
have been expected. I havent investigated that claim any further. His complaint is that 
neither he, nor his financial advisor, had any expectation that the rebalancing activities would 
take place. So I think it immaterial whether the rebalancing took place when it did on 
10 March, or when Mr B says it should have a week later. I havent seen anything to make 
me think the incorrect linking of the original F&SS account would have been identified and 
corrected had the rebalancing taken place a week later.
AJB was not Mr Bs financial advisor. So it simply acted on the instructions he, or his 
financial advisor, provided. It wasnt for AJB to ensure that any investment decisions were 
suitable for Mr Bs needs  those were essentially decisions he needed to make for himself, 
with the support of his financial advisor.
I understand how disappointing my decision will be for Mr B. As I said earlier it is clear that 
he has lost out from the erroneous sale of his pension investments. And that the sale of 
those investments wasnt something that he wanted or had instructed. But Im not persuaded 
that the sale of those investments, as part of Ds rebalancing activities, was as a result of 
something that AJB had done incorrectly, or because AJB had failed to provide sufficient 
guidance to Mr Bs financial advisor. So I dont think it reasonable to ask AJB to pay Mr B 
any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
AJ Bell Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman