DRN-3941453
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about the delays he experienced when transferring his stocks and 
shares ISA to Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd (Vanguard). Mr M lost out financially 
because of those delays and the ISA funds were invested into the wrong investment and that 
hasnt correctly been put right.
Mrs M is complaining on Mr Ms behalf but for ease of reference I shall refer to Mr M in my 
decision.
What happened
On 17 April 2021 Mr M initiated his stocks and shares ISA transfer to Vanguard from another 
platform provider who I shall refer to a Company A in this decision. He said that Vanguard 
didnt send the transfer request to Company A until 25 May 2021.
The funds were received by Vanguard on 25 August 2021 but were then invested into an 
incorrect fund. Mr M was asked to switch to the correct fund by Vanguard on                       
16 September 2021. He was told that the best unit price of the fund for May 2021 would be 
honoured so that he would not be financially disadvantaged as a result.
But this didnt happen, and Vanguard concluded that the transfer would have completed on  
7 July 2021 when the unit price was at its highest. Mr M says there is no logic to this.
Vanguard did add missing units to Mr Ms investment on 10 December 2021, but he had 
missed out on market growth and dividend income. Vanguard gave him £300 as a gesture of 
goodwill but Mr M says he lost a significant amount of money during the switch. He said the 
complaint handling process had been far from transparent and the investigation into his 
complaint had been substandard.
Mr M said the issue caused him a lot of worry. He was under continuous hospital medical 
treatment three times a week during this time and could only correspond on his free days 
which caused him a lot of anxiety.
When Vanguard responded to Mr Ms complaint on 8 October and it said;
It provided a timeline of events between 17 April and 20 September 2021.
It accepted it was responsible for delays of 38 busines days and that it didnt provide 
Mr M with its usual standard of service and paid him £300 as a gesture of goodwill.
It believed the cash for investment would have been available to him on 2 July which 
would have settled on 7 July so to put that right (at a unit price of £256.36) it would 
apply an additional 0.062 units to his account.
Mr M wasnt happy with the outcome, so Vanguard carried out a further full review of his 
complaint and wrote to him on 8 November 2021. It had calculated the switch between the 
two funds meant Mr M had incurred a loss of 4.14 units and it arranged for those to be 
added to his account instead of paying out in cash as it had previously advised.
And for the transfer itself, it should have completed much earlier and it calculated this was   
7 July and Mr M had missed out on a further 0.06 units. And with regard to Mr M being told 
he would best pricing the amount to May it said some confusion had arisen. It said that best 
pricing didnt mean it would give him the best price possible, but it would be the best price 
between the date the deal should have been placed rather the date the deal was actually 
placed. It clarified if Mr M had received a better price at the latter date, it would not have 
taken those units away.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that Vanguard needed to do more;
She was satisfied with the offered compensation of £300 for the poor communication 
and that Mr M wasnt provided with the usual high standard of service, and 
particularly bearing in mind his personal circumstances.
She didnt think Vanguard had correctly put right the additional units after Mr M was 
invested into the incorrect fund. She thought the correct date that should be used to 
calculate the lost investment opportunity was 2 June which was the date the funds 
would have been available if Vanguard had sent the transfer request sooner than   
25 May 2021 after Mr M had initiated it on 17 April. If it had been done sooner this 
27-day delay would have meant it would have completed within the HMRC 30-day 
guidelines. To put the matter right she recommended that Mr M be paid interest from 
when the transfer should have gone through  28 May 2021  to the date the funds 
were actually transferred on 25 August.
She also said Vanguard should work out the unit price on 2 June 2021 rather than 
the 25 August unit price and if necessary, it should repurchase those units or give   
Mr M the cash equivalent so he could repurchase them.
Vanguard responded. It said;
It said its usual process would have been to send Mr Ms transfer request within five 
days of him uploading it (Company A wouldnt accept electronic instructions) which 
he did on 22 April. But it wasnt sent until 25 May which it clarified was 17 business 
days late.
When Company A first sent its valuation of Mr Ms account which was received by 
Vanguard on 7 June, some pages were missing, and it didnt inform Company A 
within five days of this as it should have done. This wasnt sent until 9 July which 
caused a further 19 business days delay.
It concluded that the transfer completed in 91 business days and it had contributed 
36 business days towards that delay after accounting for the delays caused by 
Company A. So, without the delays caused by Vanguard the completion would have 
been 6 July and the 7 July unit price would apply.
Because of the delay in the transfer and the sum being invested into the wrong fund, 
Mr M was due additional units of 4.2107 which had been done correctly and Mr M 
wasnt due any further compensation.
After a response from Vanguard, the investigator accepted that the interest award wasnt 
necessary as by correcting the number of units dealt with any financial loss Mr M may have 
suffered.
However, she believed Vanguard contributed to a total of 40 business days to the delay 
rather than the 36 so the new completion date should be 30 June 2021 and if appropriate, Vanguard needed to repurchase units or give Mr M the current equivalent so he could make 
the repurchase himself.
The investigator then contacted Vanguard as HMRC guidelines are that for non-cash ISAs, 
such as this, they should complete within 30 calendar days, so she asked it to recalculate. 
But the complaint couldnt be resolved and, it was been passed to me for a decision. I issued 
my provisional decision that I thought the complaint should be upheld but redress needed to 
be recalculated. I asked both parties to give me anything they wanted me to consider before 
I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned above, I am thinking of reaching the same conclusion as the 
investigator but with clarification about the number of days for which I think Vanguard 
is responsible for the delays.
The ISA transfer
For a non-cash ISA transfer, HMRCs guidelines are that a transfer should complete 
within 30 calendar days  and not business days as referred to above by Vanguard. 
While those guidelines arent a regulatory requirement, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for me to benchmark what happened in Mr Ms case with what HMRC 
considers to be good industry practice. But I accept that timelines for Vanguards own 
internal procedures and processes are business days and not calendar days. 
Bearing this in mind, I think Mr Ms transfer should have completed by 2 June 2021. 
Ill explain why.
Ive looked through the detailed timeline of events that Vanguard has provided and 
like the investigator, I have identified two delays that I consider Vanguard are 
responsible for. The first relates to the initial transfer request. As mentioned above, 
Company A wouldnt action electronic instructions, so as requested by Vanguard,   
Mr M uploaded his transfer request to Vanguard on 22 April.
Vanguard has said its own guidelines are that this should have been sent onto 
Company A within five days  which as Ive said above, I take to mean five business 
days, but it said this didnt happen until 25 May because of the volume of requests it 
was dealing with. To be within its own guidelines Vanguard should have forwarded 
that request to Company A by the close of business on 29 April  which it didnt. So, 
to be fair to Vanguard as well as Mr M I have used 30 April  the sixth business day 
after receipt of the transfer  as the first calendar day for purposes of the 
recalculation for the delays. The 30 April until 25 May is 25 calendar days.
The second delay that I think should be attributed to Vanguard is its response to the 
receipt of an incomplete valuation of Mr Ms ISA from Company A. This was received 
by Vanguard on 7 June and again, Vanguard should have requested a complete 
valuation within five business days of its receipt to remain within its own guidelines. 
But the request wasnt made until 9 July which (after excluding the first five business 
days) equates to a further 25 calendar days.
So, in total I calculate that Vanguard attributed a total of 50 calendar days to the 
delays that Mr M experienced during the transfer process. And this needs to be taken 
into account when putting the matter right.The total period of transfer was 91 days according to Vanguard which I think could 
have completed within 30 calendar days even taking into account errors made by 
Company A if they had been responded to immediately. However, I do recognise the 
potential that other errors caused by Company A (which I should make clear I havent 
considered as part of this decision) also had an impact on the overall timeline so I 
accept that Vanguard isnt totally responsible for the full 91 day delay, only 50 of 
them as Ive calculated above which would reduce the delay experienced by Mr M to 
41 days.
So, using calendar days, the transfer should have completed on 2 June 2021.
The fund switch
As background, when Mr M initiated his transfer request on 17 April and requested 
that when the funds were received, they should be invested into the             
Vanguard FTSE All-World UCITS. However, on 21 April he contacted Vanguard as 
he wanted to amend that fund investment into the LifeStrategy 80% Equity Fund. It 
was explained to him that he would have to cancel the original order and manually 
buy the LifeStrategy 80% Equity Fund when the cash was received. Vanguard 
confirmed with Mr M that the original order had been cancelled.
However, when the cash was received by Vanguard, on 25 August, Mr M noticed that 
they were marked as pending investment into the original investment  the         
FTSE All-World UCITS which had been cancelled. The fund was purchased in error.
The sale instruction for this holding was placed on 15 September and was to be 
corrected by purchasing the amended fund choice and Mr M would receive the same 
number of units as if the delay hadnt occurred. Mr M was concerned he hadnt 
received the best price for May and Vanguard confirmed this was an error on its 
part. 
Its agreed that Vanguard carried out an incorrect transaction after Mr M had 
cancelled the order in April 2021. So, I need to consider how that should be put right 
if the transfer had completed within a reasonable time frame. As Ive concluded 
above, I think the transfer should have completed on 2 June. And if Mr M had been 
able to place the transaction on that day, the purchase would have settled on            
3 June 2021.
To put the matter right I said that Vanguard should pay Mr M the £300 it had offered for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. It should recalculate the number of units Mr M could 
have bought in the Vanguard LifeStrategy 80% Equity Fund as if the trade had been placed 
on 2 June 2021 and settled on 3 June 2021. Mr M should be compensated for any lost 
dividend income. 
In its response to my provisional decision, Vanguard said it had nothing further to add.
Mrs M replied on Mr Ms behalf. She wanted to make me aware that Mr M was still receiving  
hospital medical treatment three times a week and the ongoing complaint is causing him a 
lot of worry and anxiety. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Mr M is still undergoing medical treatment and appreciate that he 
would like for his complaint resolved as soon as possible. As both parties have replied before the provisional decision deadline and neither party has 
given me anything further to consider about the merits of the complaint, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. And Vanguard needs to put the matter right. 
Putting things right
In order to put the matter right Vanguard needs to;
If it hasnt already done so, it should pay to Mr M the £300 it has offered for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Recalculate the number of units Mr M would have been able to purchase in the 
Vanguard LifeStrategy 80% Equity Fund if the trade had been placed on                   
2 June 2021 and settled on 3 June 2021. The correct number of units should be 
allocated to Mr Ms account.
If Mr M has missed out on any dividend income, because of my proposed amended 
trade date and possibly a different number of units, he should also be compensated 
for this to reflect any income he should have received from the number of units he 
should have been able purchase in June 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd, 
should put the matter right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman