DRN-3782050
The complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC reneged on its offer to permanently change her 
mortgage from a capital and interest basis to interest only. To put things right, Ms D wants
Barclays to change her mortgage back to interest only permanently.
What happened
Ms D took an offset repayment mortgage with Barclays in late 2018. The rate she selected
was variable for two years. The mortgage had an 18-year term.
In April 2020, Ms D contacted Barclays as she was having financial difficulties due to 
the coronavirus pandemic. Barclays agreed to switch her mortgage from capital and 
interest payments to interest only payments for a 12-month period.
In October 2020, Ms D spoke with a Barclays advisor regarding a new mortgage rate. The 
advisor discussed Ms Ds existing mortgage and what she wanted for the future. The 
advisor recommended a mortgage rate that was fixed for seven years with a monthly 
payment of
£391.30.
Ms D took a fixed rate until 31 January 2028. A new mortgage product offer was produced 
with details of the new rate. This offer explained that Ms D had an interest only mortgage 
for 16 years and two months. Ms D says she believed that this meant her mortgage had 
now been permanently changed to an interest only basis.
On 8 July 2021, Barclays wrote to Ms D explaining that it was changing her mortgage from 
interest only to a repayment basis. This increased the monthly payment to £1,781.48. Ms D 
complained to Barclays saying her mortgage had been permanently switched to interest 
only and she wasnt able to afford the new payment on a repayment basis.
Barclays responded to Ms Ds complaint. It explained that the switch to interest only had 
only been agreed for a 12-month period and the offer for a new product was based on this 
temporary agreement, not a permanent change. Barclays agreed the wording of the offer
could be misleading and offered Ms D £300 compensation.
Ms D didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us. Since then, Ms D has maintained 
interest only payments and because of this Barclays has reported Ms Ds account as in 
arrears.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. She initially thought Barclays should 
honour the interest only mortgage for the remainder of the mortgage term. She agreed 
that £300 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter had 
caused. Our Investigator noted that Ms Ds credit card limit had been reduced as a result 
of this and recommended Barclays review this as well.
Ms D accepted this, but Barclays didnt. Barclays responded in detail. In summary, it said 
that Ms D would need to go through a full application to see if she was eligible for a 
permanent switch to interest only. Barclays agreed to waive the early repayment charge 
(ERC) on the fixed rate Ms D had taken if she chose to move to another lender.
Our Investigator looked at things again and changed her opinion. She said Barclays 
should consider Ms Ds application for a permanent switch to interest only and grant it if 
the application was successful. She said that in the event if wasnt successful Barclays 
should treat Ms Ds account as having been on interest only to date and amend her credit 
file to reflect that the payments were up to date. She recommended Barclays then allow 
Ms D a further three months of interest only payments in order to move her mortgage to a 
new lender and waive the ERC. Our Investigator maintained that £300 was fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience in the circumstances, and that Barclays 
should review the reduction in Ms Ds credit card limit.
This time, Barclays accepted the Investigators opinion, but Ms D didnt. Ms D said she 
had made decisions around her personal and professional life on the basis that her 
mortgage was now on a permanent interest only basis. She said she believed the 
mortgage offer for the fixed rate on interest only was legally binding and Barclays was 
legally bound to honour this.
Our Investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
I set out my initial thoughts to Barclays explaining that I thought a fair compromise would 
be for Barclays to honour the interest only concession for the remainder of the fixed rate.
Barclays didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 October 2022. In this, I made the following findings:
The letter sent by Barclays to Ms D in April 2020 advising her that her account had been
switched to interest only also explained this was a temporary switch for 12 months. 
Unfortunately, Barclays has been unable to provide a copy of the call where this was 
agreed. However, Barclays has provided contact notes from the time which also suggest 
this was agreed for a 12-month period to assist Ms D due to the impacts of the covid-19 
pandemic.
Ms D doesnt seem to dispute that the switch to interest only was originally agreed for 12 
months. So Im satisfied that all parties were aware that when the existing mortgage was
switched to interest only, it was for a 12-month basis.
What is in dispute is whether, in October 2020, when Ms D changed to a new 
mortgage product, Barclays made the change to interest only a permanent one. Ms D 
says it was, Barclays says it wasnt. Ive gone on to consider this point below.
When Ms D spoke with a mortgage advisor in October 2020, she wanted to change her 
mortgage product. Ms D says she also wanted to make the change to interest only 
permanent. This was a long and detailed conversation which Barclays has provided a 
recording of. The advisors role here was to recommend a suitable mortgage product for 
Ms D, and I think when doing so, the advisor shouldve taken into account the repayment 
type of the mortgage. Ms D doesnt specifically say that she wants to make the change to 
interest only permanent. But, having listened to this call, its clear from the discussion with 
the advisor that the advisor believed that Ms Ds mortgage was on a permanent interest 
only basis. And it seems the advice was based upon that.
Barclays advisor discussed how Ms D would repay the mortgage at the end of the term 
and was clearly happy with Ms Ds repayment strategy of selling the freehold of another property she owned. The advisor also told Ms D that she would need to sign an interest 
only declaration to explain that she understood she was responsible for repaying the 
balance at the end of the term. I understand this was signed and returned by Ms D. So, 
whilst Ms D may not have specifically asked to make the change to interest only 
permanent in this call, I think she was led to believe by Barclays advisor that this was in 
fact happening and thats what she was applying for in addition to a new fixed rate.
Ive also reviewed the mortgage product switch offer from Barclays. This clearly sets out 
that the mortgage is on an interest only basis. There is no mention that the mortgage will 
revert to a repayment basis at a later stage.
Im satisfied that Ms D was initially aware that the interest only concession was limited to 
a 12-month period. However, following the discussion Ms D had with the mortgage 
advisor and the mortgage product switch offer, I can understand why Ms D believed that 
the mortgage had been permanently switched to interest only. And I think it was Barclays 
that led her to believe this.
Ms D says that Barclays has legally changed her mortgage to interest only so is bound to 
honour that. I can see why she would think that  she was sent a product switch offer 
saying she had an interest only mortgage, so she expects Barclays to give effect to that 
agreement. Whether as a matter of contract law Barclays issued a new contract on interest 
only terms, or varied the existing contract to interest only terms, and is therefore bound by 
it, is ultimately a matter for a court to decide. But as part of deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances Im required to take into account, among other things, 
relevant law. And I do think that its at least arguable that a court might find that Barclays 
did agree to a new contract or contract variation on interest only terms  and is therefore 
bound by that.
Ive taken that into account. But I also have to consider the wider regulatory rules around 
mortgage lending and changes to existing mortgages, as well as whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. That includes what happened in October 2020, but it 
also includes the position Ms D is left in if the mortgage is or isnt switched to interest only 
permanently. So the question of whether, as a matter of technical law, Barclays is bound 
by the terms of the product switch offer is only one factor for me to consider.
Ive thought about what Ms D wouldve done had it not been for Barclays leading her to 
believe that her mortgage was on a permanent interest only basis. Its clear that Ms D 
cant at this stage afford to make payments on a repayment basis and hasnt been able to 
do so since April 2020. I think its likely that had Barclays made it clear that Ms Ds 
mortgage was still only on interest only for a limited term she wouldve either applied to 
Barclays for a permanent switch to interest only or, if this was declined, looked to move to 
other lenders.
Barclays has offered to waive the early repayment charge on the fixed rate on Ms Ds 
mortgage if she moves elsewhere. However, I dont think this is a suitable remedy. Interest 
rates have significantly increased since Barclays error. And Ms D will not be able to get an 
interest rate with another lender which is near the level of what was available at the time. 
Ms D has also told us that shes made decisions regarding her work which have affected 
her income on the basis that she now had an interest only mortgage. Furthermore, 
Barclays has been recording Ms Ds account as in arrears because it believes her 
mortgage has switched back to repayment terms, but she has only been paying the interest 
from what I understand. This means its highly unlikely another lender will offer her a 
mortgage anyway with these arrears showing.As Ive said, Ms D has also told us that shes made various decisions around her 
business, and personal life, in reliance on the belief that she had an interest only 
mortgage for the remaining term of her mortgage following the phone call with the advisor 
and the new mortgage offer in October 2020. These included focusing on growing her 
self-employed business and not looking at employed roles which she says she mayve 
done had she known her mortgage would significantly increase six months after taking 
the fixed rate. Clearly, these decisions are not easily undone.
Putting Ms D in a fair situation is difficult. Barclays is correct in that it should assess whether 
interest only is suitable for a customer before offering it and this must include having a 
viable method of repaying the mortgage at the end of the mortgage term. But, based on 
what Barclays has told us about its criteria, and what Ms D has told us about her current 
situation, its unlikely that Ms D will meet  or would have met at the time of the rate switch  
Barclays criteria for a permanent change to interest only.
Barclays has made an error and given misleading, and arguably incorrect, information. 
But that doesnt necessarily mean its fair to say that it should therefore be bound by this. 
If it were to permanently switch the mortgage to an interest only basis until the end of the 
term, Ms D may find herself unable to repay the balance. And Barclays does have a duty 
to ensure she does have a means to repay it.
Ms D has said she still has the freehold of another property which she can sell. I dont 
know what this is worth or how easy it may be for Ms D to sell. But, Ms D has also 
provided us with an updated valuation of her property. Based on this she has a loan to 
value of around 30%. This means that selling her property and downsizing (or moving to 
her other property) is also a feasible option for her to repay the mortgage if sale of the 
other property is not sufficient.
I think the first step should be for Barclays to fairly consider Ms Ds request to change her 
mortgage to interest only. Whilst I recognise Ms D doesnt wish to go through this process, I 
think its right that she does. And she will need to cooperate with Barclays process, 
including providing any information it requires. If, as I think is likely, Barclays isnt able to 
offer Ms D a permanent switch to interest only, then Im going to direct Barclays to change 
Ms Ds mortgage to an interest only basis until the end of the fixed rate.
I recognise that this isnt an ideal situation for either party. This will also mean that in around 
five years time, Ms Ds mortgage payment will increase as it reverts back to repayment.
And, given that there will be less time remaining on the mortgage term, Ms Ds payments 
will be higher than they would be now if the mortgage were to switch to repayment now, or 
had switched back in April 2021 in line with the original agreement. If Ms Ds situation 
doesnt improve, then she wont be able to afford these repayments.
However, this compromise gives Ms D breathing space, and plenty of time for either her 
situation to improve, such as an increase in her self-employed income, or for her to make 
alternative plans, such as to sell her other property to reduce the balance to an affordable 
level.
As Ive already explained, Ms Ds told us that she has a repayment vehicle which involves 
the sale of a freehold she owns. It may be that she will need to do this when the fixed rate 
ends. However, shes also told us that shes building her business. So, its also possible 
that she may be able to afford to change to repayment when the fixed rate ends (or sooner 
should she decide to). She may decide that she wishes to downsize to repay the 
mortgage. She may be able to apply to Barclays to extend the term. Lastly, she may at this 
stage look at other lenders who may be able to offer her an interest only remortgage. In short, giving Ms D this interest only extension will give her time to make plans and look at 
other options. I think this is a fair and reasonable compromise in the circumstances.
Barclays should also backdate this concession to when it first changed Ms Ds mortgage 
back to repayment. I understand that Ms D has continued to maintain interest only 
payments towards her mortgage. So, Barclays should ensure that its internal records and 
anything its reported to external credit reference agencies is amended to reflect that the 
account was on an interest only basis.
With regards to the reduction in Ms Ds credit card limit, Im minded to tell Barclays to 
review this had it not been for arrears showing in relation to her mortgage. If, it would still 
have taken this action, then this is a decision its entitled to make. However, if the reason 
that Barclays reduced the credit limit was solely down to the arrears on the mortgage, it 
should reinstate this.
Ive thought about the amount of compensation our Investigator recommended for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. This has been going on for around two 
years now. The matter is not resolved and has clearly had a significant impact on Ms D. 
Her mortgage has been showing as in arrears on her credit file, and her credit card limit 
has been reduced. Ms D did initially know that her mortgage was on a temporary interest 
only concession, as Ive explained, Barclays did lead her to believe this change had been 
made permanent only to later find out this was a mistake. Taking all this into account, I 
dont think £300 is fair compensation. Im currently minded to increase this to £600.
I said that I had provisionally decided to tell Barclays to:
Consider Ms Ds request for a permanent switch to interest only
If the above request is declined, Barclays should allow Ms D an interest only 
concession from October 2020 when she took the new fixed rate until 31 
January 2028 when the fixed rate ends
Amend its internal records and anything its reported to external credit 
reference agencies as if Ms Ds mortgage had been on interest only as per the 
above
Review Ms Ds credit card limit as if her mortgage hadnt been in arrears and 
amend the credit limit accordingly
Pay Ms D £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused
I invited both parties to respond by 1 November 2022. 
Ms D responded. She said she was willing to cooperate with the decision but felt that 
Barclays considering her request for a permanent switch again wasnt practical. She also 
asked for confirmation of how much compensation I was suggesting which she still felt was 
too low. 
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms D feels there isnt much point in her applying for a permanent switch to 
interest only again given she feels it will likely be declined. But I remain of the opinion that 
its right that Barclays assess this first. However, even if this isnt successful, what Ive 
suggested will still give Ms D a substantial amount of time on an interest only basis to make 
plans for the future.
I accept that my provisional decision may not have been wholly clear on compensation 
amounts. I am suggesting another £300 on top of the £300 Barclays has already offered, so 
a total of £600. I realise Ms D doesnt think this is a fair amount. Ive thought again about 
this. But for reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the opinion that this 
amount is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Ive reconsidered everything again. In light of no response from Barclays, and what 
Ms D has had to say, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional 
decision. So Im going to uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Reconsider Ms Ds request for a permanent switch to interest only
If the above request is declined, Barclays should allow Ms D an interest only 
concession from October 2020 when she took the new fixed rate until 
31 January 2028 when the fixed rate ends
Rework Ms Ds mortgage account as per the above point. In doing so, 
Barclays should amend its internal records and anything its reported to 
external credit reference agencies as if Ms Ds mortgage had been on interest 
only
Review Ms Ds credit card limit as if her mortgage hadnt been in arrears and 
amend the credit limit accordingly if necessary
Pay Ms D £600 total compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman