DRN-4260327
The complaint
Mr D complains that a mortgage he took with Barclays Bank UK PLC was marketed as 
having a fixed rate for five years but was in fact fixed for less than this. 
What happened
Mr D applied for a mortgage with Barclays in 2020. Mr D says that the mortgage product he 
applied for was marketed as a five-year fixed rate mortgage. This application was done on 
the advice of an independent mortgage broker. Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 
8 October 2020. The mortgage offer stated that the interest rate would be fixed from the date 
the mortgage completed until 30 April 2025. The mortgage completed in March 2021.
In late 2022, Mr D complained to Barclays. He said that the mortgage could never have been 
fixed for five years given the end date in the mortgage offer and he felt hed been mis-led by 
it being referred to as a five-year fixed rate mortgage. He asked Barclays to either extend the 
term of the fixed rate or pay compensation to him. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said the offer clearly set out the specific date when 
the fixed rate would end. Barclays did accept it had failed to respond to his first letter of 
complaint and offered £40 compensation for this mistake.
Unhappy with this response, Mr D referred his complaint to our Service, where one of our 
Investigators looked into it. Our Investigator didnt think Barclays had made a mistake and 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds key point in this complaint is that Barclays led him to believe that the mortgage rate 
would be fixed for five years, but it could never have been because of the date that the fixed 
rate ended.
Many fixed rate mortgages work in this manner. Lenders will typically secure a tranche of 
funds which it will lend at a certain rate. Its usually marketed as fixed for a certain number of 
years such as, in this case, five. So, when this fixed rate was first released, it wouldve run 
for five years (possibly slightly longer) if the mortgage completed soon after it was released. 
However, the longer a particular product is on the market, the less time the fixed rate has to 
run. 
We arent the industry regulator, so its not for us to tell a business how it should operate. 
Instead, Ive considered the information that Barclays provided to Mr D.
Whilst it mayve been marketed as a five-year fixed rate, and the covering letter for the 
mortgage offer refers to it as a five-year fix, the mortgage offer doesnt actually refer to this 
mortgage product as a five-year fixed rate. Instead, it clearly sets out that the mortgage 
interest rate will be fixed until 30 April 2025. I think this shouldve made Mr D aware that he 
wouldnt be getting the full five years at this fixed rate as he expected to. The offer was 
provided to Mr D prior to completion of the mortgage. And had he been unhappy with the 
actual term of the fixed rate, he was under no obligation to proceed with this product.
Id also note that this mortgage was arranged for Mr D by an independent broker. So, it was 
for the broker to make sure that the mortgage was suitable for Mr D, and the broker should 
also have explained that Mr D may not benefit from this fixed rate for a full five years. 
Barclays obligation was to provide Mr D with a mortgage offer in the format required by the 
regulator, and it did that. It was for his mortgage adviser to explain it to him and make sure 
he understood how his mortgage would work.
I understand why Mr D is unhappy that his rate will be ending sooner than he expected. But 
Im satisfied that the mortgage offer clearly set out, in more than one place, when this fixed 
rate would end. And I dont think Barclays has made a mistake.
Barclays offered Mr D £40 for not responding to his complaint sooner. Complaint handling 
isnt a regulated or listed activity in our rules. So, I cant consider this part of Mr Ds 
complaint here. If Mr D wishes to accept this offer, he will need to contact Barclays directly.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman