DRN-4198410
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as C, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont 
refund money that was stolen from their accounts.
Miss P, who is a director of C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
Miss P says that while she was away on holiday, the bookkeeper for C transferred nearly 
£135,000 out of two accounts held by C without her knowledge. Ill refer to the bookkeeper 
as D.
On discovering the loss, Miss P made some enquiries to see if the money had been moved 
for legitimate reasons. But being unable to find a reason for the transfers, she confronted D.
 
D told Miss P shed used the money to invest in cryptocurrency but found out shed been the 
victim of a scam. D had expected to return the money to Cs bank accounts before Miss P 
returned from her holiday.
Miss P says the loss of the money has had a devastating impact on her business and her 
own personal wellbeing. As a result, she wasnt able to pay the staff wages and its caused 
her immense distress. 
Miss P informed Barclays of the situation and asked them to refund the money D took from 
the accounts, but Barclays declined to refund the money. They explained that as D was 
authorised to complete the transactions under the account mandate, they consider this a civil 
dispute between the parties.
Miss P didnt agree with Barclays findings, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt uphold it, saying Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong in following the payment instructions, as they were made by an authorised 
signatory to the accounts. They explained that the account mandate (which applied to both 
accounts) said either of the signatories, Miss P or D, could authorise transactions. 
Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion, raising the following points:
The investigator incorrectly said that Barclays called D when one of the payments 
failed.
When the payment failed, Barclays shouldve contacted her as the account holder. 
Miss P usually gets a text message requesting authorisation for a failed payment, but 
that didnt happen in this case.
The transactions D made were suspicious.
D was only authorised to make invoice payments.
Due to Barclays poor security on Cs account, C is entitled to a refund.
Following Miss Ps response to the view, the investigator requested some further information 
from Barclays and responded to some of the points Miss P made. The investigator said:
Barclays confirmed that if a payment fails, theyd contact the signatory making the 
payment  which in this case was D  not the account holder.
Barclays didnt call D. D called Barclays when one of the payments she was making 
was blocked. 
The mandate on both accounts said that either Miss P or D could authorise 
transactions on the account.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and help 
to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. So, there are 
situations where we would expect banks to identify a scam risk and intervene, and in some 
cases expect the bank not to follow the customers payment instruction.
 
Cs main business account
From what Ive seen, Barclays didnt have concerns or block any of the payments made by D 
as potentially suspicious or out of character until the payment on 11 March 2022 for £10,000. 
In response to this payment being blocked, D called Barclays to release it.
Having reviewed the previous account usage Im not satisfied that Barclays shouldve 
identified a potential scam risk and intervened on any of the payments D made from the 
main business account and Ill explain why.
Most of the payments D made were for between £5,000 and £20,000 and were made over a 
14 day period. Previously the account had been used for a genuine payment of over £14,000 
to HMRC and a funds transfer of £7,900. Also, this was a business account, so large 
payments and multiple payments on a single day werent unusual. For example, the day that 
staff wages were paid there would be over 15 payments all made on the same day totalling 
in excess of £15,000. Taking all of this into consideration, Im not satisfied that Ds payments 
on this account were so unusual that Barclays shouldve had concerns and intervened 
before processing the payments.
However, Barclays did block the payment on 11 March 2022, so Ive listened to the call and 
considered the information that was available to them. 
During the conversation, D provided what seemed like a plausible reason for the payment, 
saying she was buying a car. Also, I can see that the funds were being transferred to an 
existing payee that had previously been used for genuine payments. There wasnt anything 
said in the call with D that I feel shouldve concerned Barclays about the payment. So, Im 
not persuaded that Barclays acted unreasonably in releasing the payment.Cs secondary business account
Having looked at the statement for the second business account, I think Barclays shouldve 
had concerns and blocked the first payment D made, which was for £25,000. This payment 
was made a few days prior to the payment they blocked on 11 March.
 
I say this payment shouldve flagged as being suspicious because there had been little use 
of this account, with only one payment made a few days before for £5,000. Prior to that, the 
account had been inactive for over six months, with only credit interest being paid in.
 
But, in these circumstances, Im not satisfied that if Barclays had intervened that it wouldve 
made a difference. I say this because the funds were being transferred between Cs 
accounts and not to an external payee. And I think that if Barclays had stopped this 
payment, D wouldve called them and provided a similar story to the one she provided a few 
days later when the payment on the other account was blocked. As Ive already explained 
Im not persuaded that Barclays shouldve been concerned based on the conversation they 
did have with D, so I cant fairly say they wouldve identified a scam risk and stopped this 
payment if theyd intervened.
 
All of the subsequent payments made from Cs second account were for less than the first 
payment, although there were three payments made for £10,000 each on the same day. 
However, they were made a couple of days after the first payment and were split across two 
separate payees. And considering the size of the first payment and that two of these 
payments were transfers to Cs main business account, Im not satisfied that any of these 
further payments shouldve been identified as potentially suspicious by Barclays or 
warranted further intervention.
An important consideration in deciding whether Barclays has acted reasonably in the 
circumstances of this case, is that the mandates on both of Cs accounts, were set up with 
either D or Miss P as authorised to operate the account. There werent any limitations on the 
mandate as to what type of transactions either D or Miss P could make. So, all of the 
payments that D made were in line with the mandate.
Miss P has raised a concern that Barclays didnt contact her when they flagged the payment 
on 11 March. However, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably in talking to D, as an 
authorised user on the account, or by releasing the payment based on what D told them. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that I can fairly say Barclays shouldve contacted Miss P about the 
payments.
I appreciate that Miss P has lost a substantial amount of money, which has had a serious 
impact on her business and caused her distress. But, having carefully considered 
everything, I cant fairly say that Barclays acted unreasonably in following Ds payment 
instructions in these circumstances. On that basis, I cant fairly ask them to refund C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this case against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman