DRN-3832272
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim she made on her home insurance 
policy for damage caused by subsidence.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Miss B noticed damage to her extension and got in touch with QIC.
QIC appointed a surveyor, who inspected the damage and arranged for 
investigations to be carried out.
QIC declined the claim because it said the damage had been caused by poor design. 
It said investigation had shown the extension foundation was 175mm deep. But 
guidelines at the time of construction said a minimum depth of 450mm should be 
achieved  and current guidelines said 750mm. And it said damage at the front of the 
main building hadnt been caused by subsidence.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said QIC had relied on 
recent guidelines, but the extension had been built in the 1970s  so it wasnt fair to 
rely on those guidelines. He also noted that meant the extension had stood for 
around 50 years at the time of the claim. In these circumstances, he didnt think it 
would be fair for QIC to decline the claim for poor design. He asked QIC to accept 
the claim and pay £500 compensation.
Miss B accepted our investigators findings. QIC didnt. After further discussion, an 
agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, subject to a number of terms and 
conditions. QIC has accepted the extension has been damaged by subsidence.
QIC has relied on a policy term to decline the claim. It says: We dont cover the 
following  loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, faulty materials, latent 
defects or poor design.
I understand QIC considers the depth of the foundation amounts to poor design. The 
onus is on QIC to show why it would be fair to decline the claim for this reason.
QIC has referred to guidelines by a builder of new homes, N, from 2007. It later 
referred to Building Regulations from 2010. Our investigator has pointed out that 
neither of these standards are relevant as the extension was built in the 1970s. QIC 
has accepted these guidelines dont apply but has continued to rely on them to 
explain why it thinks the foundation has been poorly designed.
I find QICs position baffling. It accepts the guidelines dont apply  and only came 
into force around 40 years after the relevant time  yet it continues to rely on them. It 
hasnt explained why guidance from 2007-2010 can reasonably be considered 
indicative of good practice from the 1970s. So I dont find its argument persuasive.
I wont be taking into account the standards QIC has referred to as they didnt apply 
at the relevant time  and QIC hasnt persuaded me it would be fair to take them into 
account for any other reason. That means those standards arent relevant here.
What would be relevant is evidence of any guidelines, regulations or best practice 
from the time the extension was built to show how it should have been designed. QIC 
has conceded it has no evidence along these lines. So, despite not being able to 
show what standards applied to foundation design at the relevant time, it maintains 
the foundation design is poor and the depth is inadequate. Again, I find it difficult to 
understand the logic of QICs position.
QIC has argued the foundation is inadequate for a number of reasons. In summary:
oThe foundation depth didnt take into consideration the soil type.
oThe extension foundation is shallower than the main house.
oHad the foundation been deeper, the damage wouldnt have occurred.
These comments havent been provided by a relevant professional, such as a 
surveyor or engineer. And theyre not supported by reference to any guidelines, 
regulations or best practice. Nor have they been explained in any detail. For 
example, what is the soil type and how should it have been taken into account at the 
time of construction? And what depth is the main house foundation and why should 
the extension foundation have matched it?
Whilst I agree in principle that with a sufficiently deep foundation, the damage is 
unlikely to have happened, thats true of most subsidence problems. But that doesnt 
explain why the foundation was poorly designed at the time it was built. And if I 
accepted that any foundation which leads to subsidence was poorly designed 
because it could have been built deeper, its likely most subsidence claims would be 
declined. This doesnt strike me as a fair position for an insurer to take.
Even if QIC was able to show the foundation was poorly designed, I would also take 
into account other relevant factors. Here, the foundation had stood for around 50 
years at the time of damage. Having performed its function for such a long period of 
time, Im not persuaded it would be fair to consider it poorly designed. QIC says the 
problem has been highlighted by drier weather over recent years. But there have 
been many periods of significant dry weather since the 1970s which have, at times, 
led to large volumes of subsidence claims. QIC hasnt explained why the foundation 
was able to withstand those dry periods if it was inadequate.
Overall, Im not satisfied QIC has shown it would be fair to decline the claim on the 
basis the foundation was poorly designed. To put things right, it should now accept 
the claim for the extension.
I also think QIC should pay compensation. Had it handled things fairly, the claim 
would have been accepted a long time ago  around a year sooner. In the meantime, Miss B has had to ensure the uncertainty of whether QIC would deal with the 
problem or whether she would be left to pay for it. Shes also had to live with the 
damage for longer than she should have done. In the circumstances, Im satisfied the 
£500 suggested by our investigator is reasonable and proportionate.
Miss B has also noted cracking to the main building, not just the extension. QICs 
surveyor didnt think this damage was caused by subsidence. They said there was a 
lack of cracking externally and no stepped cracking. More recently Miss B has 
taken photos, which she thinks shows cracking indicative of downward movement.
The only professional opinion about this cracking is from QICs surveyor. I havent 
seen anything from a surveyor or engineer to challenge QICs position. So, based on 
the evidence available to me, I dont think QIC has acted unfairly on this point. But I 
understand Miss B will share the recent photos with QIC. I would expect it to ensure 
a suitably qualified and experienced professional considers the damage and whether 
it has been caused by subsidence and let Miss B know.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Accept the subsidence claim for the extension.
Pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman